Let’s Agree on Terms 15
It is natural and practical to say that this state is about ﬂies, which I would
write, as an interim measure, flies. Fodor rightly claims, ‘there is nothing
to stop you from telling the story quite a diﬀerent way. On the alternative
account, what the neural mechanism is designed to respond to is little
ambient black things (or, mutatis mutandis, characteristic patterns of
ocular irradiation as of little ambient black things).’ Well, yes, of course,
but why should we, until we know any better? We pick the term fly from
a large set of possibilities all equally consistent with experimental facts,
because it will be helpful to convey to other scientists what we are talking
about. As experiments proceed, it is certain, in the froggy case, that we will
change our minds about the most useful term, and narrow it down well
beyond little-ambient-black-things, because we ﬁnd that frogs
respond the same way to artiﬁcial stimuli that we wave in front of them.
And of course, we have to specify as exactly as possible just how little
and just how black.12
I apply here, as a matter of practicality, what
Dennett (1991) calls ‘a certain “interest-relative” tactic of interpretation—
roughly, the decision to ignore nitpickers. Hence such considerations will
not serve to rule out heroically Pickwickian interpretations, e.g., the sort
of phenomenalistic interpretation that insists that the frog lives its whole
life caring only about “little ambient black things” ’ (p. 93).
So far, these capitalized terms for concepts are not explanatory. They
resemble the virtus dormitiva that Molière ironically puts in the mouth of
his aspiring doctor in Le Malade imaginaire to ‘explain’ how opium puts
one to sleep.13
But they are nevertheless useful in theorizing, just as the
phrase the source of the Nile was usefully distinguished from the source
of the Congo before either of these places had been located precisely. The
interior of Africa was once terra incognita, just as the workings of the
brain still mostly are. At the edges of Africa, big rivers visibly emerged,
and arbitrary names such as Nile and Congo became accepted for these
rivers. Common knowledge about rivers entailed that they had sources,
but no one knew exactly where in the unexplored interior these sources
were. The phrases the source of the Nile and the source of the Congo
were, and remain, meaningful, and useful for describing the goals of
expeditions. Analogously, we observe complex behaviour in ourselves and
animals, and we know that particular patterns of behaviour are caused
by patterns of activity in their brains, but, of course, we don’t know
12
Research has already raced on, and the appropriate prey stimulus for frogs and toads
has been described as ‘bar-shaped objects elongated in the direction of movement with W-
or H- orientation’. (See Ewert 1987; Beauquin and Gaillard 1998.)
13
See Mumford (1996) for a philosophical defence of virtutes dormitivae.
16 The Origins of Meaning
exactly what this cerebral activity is. Nevertheless, it is useful to have
terms denoting such activity, whatever it is, in advance of its being perhaps
pinned down in the future by neuroscience.
No analogy is perfect, and of course there are signiﬁcant diﬀerences
between an expedition to locate the source of the Nile and a search for the
patterns of brain activity underlying behaviour. In our case, it is hoped one
day to be able to specify weighted potentials for neural activity. The brains
of diﬀerent individuals vary in their instantiation of concepts, but not
unconstrainedly, so that statistical distributions over patterns of (poten-
tial) brain activity could be speciﬁed. The evidence comes from com-
plex, but in some sense regular behaviour, in well-described environmen-
tal (natural or experimental) contexts, all suitably classiﬁed, augmented
where possible by forays into the interior with the kit of neuroscience.
Clearly there are systematic connections between the internal activity and
the externally observed behaviour and environmental conditions. In this
sense, I am almost at ease with Wittgenstein (1953, ¶580)’s well-known
dictum ‘an “inner process” stands in need of outward criteria’; but I
would like to replace criteria, with its connotation of deﬁning by necessary
and suﬃcient conditions, with evidence. An acceptable formulation by a
commentator on Wittgenstein is that he ‘argues that the epistemic criteria
for the applicability of mentalistic terms cannot be private, introspectively
accessible inner states but must instead be intersubjectively observable
behavior’ (Marras 1995, p. 68). I agree.
1.3 a scale from no-brainers to cognitive concepts
It is necessary, but not suﬃcient, for attribution of a concept of some-
thing to an animal, that the animal show (or have shown) regular and
systematic behaviour in connection with that thing. At least one further
step is necessary, which I will describe later. But before we go on, let’s
emphasize the importance of this ﬁrst step of regular and systematic
behaviour in connection with some class of entities from the environment.
I will say that the existence of such regular behaviour is evidence of ‘proto-
concepts’. The next step, to be described, is built upon the foundation
of such proto-concepts. Without proto-concepts, no full concepts can
evolve. As an example, a cat has (at least) some proto-concept of its
habitual prey because it adopts the same behaviour towards it when it
encounters it. This is not to say, of course, that a cat has the exact human
concepts mouse or bird that a human has. Indeed they may be all the
same to a cat, unless of course we can observe behaviour towards mice
Let’s Agree on Terms 17
diﬀering in a regular way from behaviour towards birds. So, when a cat
is watching a bird, and acting as it usually does (crouching low, perhaps
muttering), it seems reasonable to say that the cat’s behaviour is guided
by, and thus the cat possesses, some mental category or proto-concept of
prey. Of course animal concepts such as prey are entirely private, except
for a tiny number such as the vervets’ concepts of speciﬁc predators, which
do get externalized in public signals. My choice of the terms ‘concept’ and
‘category’ allows the possibility (indeed the probability) that these mental
entities are fuzzy.
I can go a certain distance along with philosophers who argue for a
narrow interpretation of ‘concept’:
[having a concept] is not just a matter of being natively disposed, or having
learned, to react in some speciﬁc way to items that fall under a concept; it is
to judge or believe that certain items fall under the concept. If we do not make
this a condition on having a concept, we will have to treat simple tendencies
to eat berries, or to seek warmth and avoid cold, as having the concepts of a
berry, or of warm, or of cold. I assume we don’t want to view earthworms and
sunﬂowers as having concepts. This would be a terminological mistake, for it
would be to lose track of the fundamental distinction between a mindless
disposition to respond diﬀerentially to members of a class of stimuli, and a
disposition to respond to those items as members of that class.
(Davidson 2004, pp. 137–138)
As long as terms such as judge and believe and the preposition as in the
last sentence here are not necessarily tied to language, I can agree. Like
Davidson, I don’t want to attribute the concept of a ﬂy-like object to
a Venus ﬂytrap, because a ﬂytrap has no brain. From an evolutionary
point of view, it is useful to distinguish, as Davidson apparently does not,
between sunﬂowers and earthworms,14
between plants and animals with
brains. Any animal with a brain has the rudiments of a system which can
evolve to play host to concepts, whereas a plant does not. Proto-concepts
and concepts are instantiated (in a way shortly to be discussed) in brains.
Plants (and sea sponges and jellyﬁsh) don’t have brains.
Now, what are some examples of behaviours indicating the possession
of proto-concepts, but not of concepts? Reﬂex actions, like kneejerks
and eyeblinks, are systematic responses to external stimuli, but cannot
reasonably be said to indicate concepts of those stimuli. We want more
14
I wonder if Davidson was aware of Darwin’s discussion of intelligence in earthworms
(Darwin 1881).
18 The Origins of Meaning
from concepts than that. But reﬂex actions lie on the evolutionary path to
more complex behaviours that do indicate possession of concepts.
The behaviour of some animals seems to consist mainly, and perhaps
only, in reﬂex actions. A ﬂy behaves in a regular and systematic way in
response to certain classes of input. Chan et al. (1998) have shown that this
systematic behaviour is managed by a direct linkage between the ﬂy’s eyes,
through its halteres (club-shaped oscillators acting as gyroscopes), to its
wings. Further, three of the most important activities that a ﬂy engages in,
turning, landing, and collision-avoidance, can be satisfactorily described
as reﬂex responses to certain classes of visual input from the optic ﬂow
(Tammero and Dickinson 2002). Thus, where a ﬂy goes in the world is
largely determined by reﬂexes. Compare this with our own movements:
walking about, sitting, and standing. Though the details of putting one
foot in front of the other may have reﬂex components, the overall direction
of travel, and where in the world we end up, is not governed by reﬂexes,
unlike most of the ﬂy’s path through life.
In the limit, whether animals have concepts is a doubly slippery ques-
tion, because the normal intuitive understanding of the ‘concept of a
concept’ assumes answers to two profoundly deep, and perhaps insoluble,
philosophical questions: (1) the question of what counts as a valid gener-
alization, i.e. the problem of induction, and (2) the question of whether
we, or any organisms, have ‘free’ access to, and control over, our mental
states. Now, as this is a book about language evolution, I’m not going to
claim to give answers to those thorny philosophical problems. Instead, I
will appeal to the idea of scales of complexity, one for induction and one
for ‘freewill’, on which researchers can practically agree whether some
behaviour is more or less complex than some other. Then I will pin the
possession of ‘genuine’ concepts above some arbitrary point on each of
these scales; these points, though arbitrary, nevertheless command the
agreement of a number of animal researchers and some philosophers, if
not those determined to preserve concepts for language-using humans.
This strategy for deciding whether concepts can be attributed to animals
is similar to Herrnstein’s (Herrnstein 1991): he deﬁned a scale with ﬁve
points, and labelled the fourth point on the scale ‘concepts’.15
He con-
cluded that many animals showed evidence of having concepts, but that
only humans reach his ﬁfth point, the level of abstract relations. More
recent work, as we will see, indicates that some non-humans can represent
15
See Allen and Hauser (1991) for some further discussion of attributing concepts to
animals, including discussion of Herrnstein’s experiments.
Let’s Agree on Terms 19
abstract relations. I will review some results in animal research that show
that some animals (a) make inductive generalizations of a quite complex
(‘abstract’) sort, and (b) can be responsive to their own internal states,
both these capacities reﬂecting the beginnings of a level of cognition that
is often demanded for possession of concepts. The motivation for all
this, of course, is that such animal concepts provide a foundation for the
meanings of words, when these eventually evolve.
C H A P T E R T W O
Animals Approach Human
Cognition
(This chapter title is not meant to suggest a scala naturae on which
humans occupy the pinnacle, with other species sitting on various
lower rungs, and, over the course of evolution, ‘approaching’ humans’
exalted status. Rather, in our own line of descent, our animal ancestors
approached modern human cognition to various degrees, and our best
clues to what these evolutionary stages might have been can be found in
currently available animals more of less closely related to us.)
Depending on their evolutionary closeness to us, animals live in the
same physical world as us, in more than the most vacuous physical sense.1
They have evolved ways of categorizing many of the same phenomena
as us. Their organs of perception are similar to ours, but diﬀer in some
ways. Thus we can expect the pre-linguistic concepts of those vertebrates
whose habitats overlap with ours to resemble ours, but of course we don’t
expect identity. Any claim of resemblance between an animal concept
and a human concept is based on their apparent extensions in the world.
For example, we can test whether an animal can distinguish between the
numbers 1, 2, and 3 by giving it real-world stimuli consisting of these
numbers of objects. Similarly, to test an animal’s possession of a concept
of sameness, we give it real-world exemplars that are the same for us.
1
An idea once popular in biology, due to Uexküll (1909), was that of the ‘Umwelt’ of
an organism: the totality of aspects of the world meaningful in some way to it. This is
a valid idea, but it can be taken too far, especially in the case of closely related species.
An extreme version would hold that even if some animal species live in the same physical
world, their Umwelts, what they sense and attend to, may be so diﬀerent that they might
as well live in diﬀerent physical environments. For humans and sea-slugs there may be an
interesting element of truth in this, but even sea-slugs are subject to gravity, friction, and
the temperature range of liquid water, like us. It seems more interesting, in the present
project, to concentrate on the similarities between human Umwelts and those of birds and
mammals, with special emphasis on apes.
Animals Approach Human Cognition 21
Wittgenstein (1953, p. 223) famously wrote, ‘If a lion could talk, we
could not understand him.’ This is far too extreme. If the lion (or any
other animal) had been suﬃciently motivated to communicate with us,
and if somehow a set of conventions had been adopted by both sides,
there could be some meaningful communication. A lion is an unlikely
candidate, but something of the sort has been achieved with Kanzi,
the bonobo who lives in a ‘Pan/Homo culture’ (Segerdahl et al. 2005),
the product of interaction between him and his keepers. It is clear that
Kanzi can communicate to humans and that they can understand him.
In Wittgenstein’s terms, a particular form of life, or language game, has
evolved between Kanzi and the humans he deals with. On the same page,
the ever-enigmatic Wittgenstein puts his ﬁnger on how this is possible:
‘There is a game of “guessing thoughts”.’ This is what we all do, our
guesses being well-informed by conﬁdent knowledge of a common code,
of a shared set of background assumptions, and the relevant context of
situation. We are very good at it.
As for animals, the most we can show is similarity between an animal’s
concept and some human concept. In keeping with a general principle
of scientiﬁc discovery, any claim to identity of concepts between two
organisms can always be falsiﬁed by the next datum to come along. This
in fact applies even among humans speaking the same language, as there is
no absolute certainty that any two people share (or perhaps better, agree
on) identical concepts. Communication between people is approximate,
and usually close enough for government work. Depending on one’s trade,
people take greater or lesser care to communicate exactly. In some cases, of
course, the falsifying instances are already with us, and we can be certain
that some animal concept is not identical in its extension to its closest
human counterpart. For example, many primate species have concepts of
relative social rank, in terms of dominance and subordination, but the
social world of humans is far more textured, and our own roughly cor-
responding concepts of dominance and subordination are much subtler
than a chimpanzee’s. (See Dennett 1996’s section on ‘The Misguided Goal
of Propositional Precision’ for concurring arguments.)
Note the appeal to extension. The brain mechanisms underlying dif-
ferent organisms’ possession of similar concepts may be quite diﬀerent.
At least while we know so little about brain mechanisms, we have to rely
on extensional criteria to decide whether two organisms are dealing with
a similar concept. And this will probably still apply even when at some
future time we have a good map of how the brain is activated when various
concepts are brought to mind, or attended to.
22 The Origins of Meaning
After this cautionary preamble, this chapter will survey several domains
in which we can see an approach by animals to the content of human
concepts. In the animal concepts to be mentioned, we can see foreshad-
owings of some human semantic universals. Many things that animals ﬁnd
it useful and possible to discriminate are also universally discriminated by
humans.
2.1 induction, generalization, and abstraction
Even reﬂex actions involve some kind of generalization over stimuli. No
two stimuli are ever exactly the same. The various slightly diﬀerent stimuli
prompting reﬂex actions are at the bottom of a scale of complexity in
classifying things or events. Such stimuli can be readily classiﬁed as the
same because they involve a small number of easily measured physical
parameters, such as the strength of the airpuﬀ giving rise to an eyeblink,
or the force of the hammer blow giving rise to a kneejerk.
On a generous interpretation, many animals in the wild may be thought
to generalize over inputs to their senses that are far more heterogeneous
than the stimuli producing reﬂex actions. Swallows, for instance, mob
both aerial predators, such as hawks, and ground predators, such as
cats. A hawk ﬂying quite high and apparently nonchalantly near nesting
swallows will attract this mobbing behaviour; the swallows repeatedly dive
close to it, interrupting and disturbing its smooth ﬂight, until the hawk
goes far enough away. A cat sitting immobile in open ground gets the
same treatment, the swallows diving low enough to make the cat duck its
head and eventually slink oﬀ. The behaviour seems selective for predators.
Pigeons and ducks don’t get mobbed by swallows, nor do dogs, not even
cat-sized dogs. The behaviour is regular enough to make one suspect that
the swallows have a high-level concept of predator, generalized from
past experience of hawks going for ﬂedgling swallows before they can
ﬂy very well, and cats snooping around under their nests. An airborne
hawk and a sessile cat don’t present very similar visual appearances. The
problem is, of course, that the swallows may not have actually made a
generalization, and may have evolved separate cat-mobbing and hawk-
mobbing behaviours in parallel. This seems likely, as it has been shown
in classic ethological work by Konrad Lorenz that even naive chicks
(domestic fowl) respond instinctively to a very speciﬁc aspect of the shape
of an aerial stimulus, namely ‘short neck’, a very short protrusion in the
silhouette at the front relative to the direction of movement of the stimulus
(Lorenz 1939, cited by Tinbergen 1948).
Animals Approach Human Cognition 23
Likewise, it may be tempting to attribute a higher-level category fo od
to many omnivorous animals, since they display the same stuﬀ-it-in-the-
mouth behaviour towards a wide range of diﬀerent things. But without
experiment there is no way of telling whether they have made a genuine
generalization rather than just having independent but parallel behaviour
to lots of diﬀerent things. Nevertheless the fact that they associate the
same eating behaviour with a range of diﬀerent objects surely makes them
closer to attainment of a generalization over all foods. Savage-Rumbaugh
et al. (1978a, 1980) found that the chimpanzees Sherman and Austin, after
learning to label a training set of diﬀerent food items with a lexigram
for food, could generalize this label appropriately to new food items.
In some cases it has been possible to demonstrate somewhat structured
animal knowledge of food categories and their relation to other categories,
such as colour and shape. Santos et al. (2001, p. 149) showed that ‘After
learning about a novel food object, rhesus monkeys selectively approach
objects of the same colour, but not objects of the same shape.’ These
authors also mention previous work (Hauser 1998a; Hauser and Marler
1993) indicating a two-level organization of rhesus monkeys’ knowledge
of the food domain: the monkeys distinguish a category of food from
other categories, and within the fo od category, they distinguish between
high-quality food and low-quality food, as indicated by diﬀerent calls.
This shows a rudimentary semantic hierarchy.
In the wild, it is impossible to tell whether generalizations get formed
inside an animal’s head. Carefully controlled experiments in the lab, how-
ever, can provide stronger evidence. There is now an enormous amount
of experimental data showing that in laboratory conditions animals can
learn to make generalizations across classes of inputs. Some of the earliest
classic results were obtained by Herrnstein et al. (1976), who showed that
pigeons could learn to distinguish pictures containing people from pic-
tures not containing people. Training was carried out with many pictures,
making rote memorization of the stimuli unlikely, a conclusion conﬁrmed
by the pigeons’ signiﬁcantly accurate performance on novel stimuli. Some
later experiments (Watanabe et al. 1995) achieved surprising and amusing
results, showing that pigeons could learn to discriminate correctly between
novel presentations of paintings by Monet and Picasso. Commenting on
this work, Wynne (2001, p. 90) summarizes: ‘In the ﬁrst study of the
categorization of schools of art by a non-human subject, paintings by
Cezanne and Renoir were spontaneously categorized as belonging to the
Monet school, while paintings by Braque and Matisse were categorized
as belonging to the Picasso school.’ These experiments are only a small
24 The Origins of Meaning
subset of those that have been reported. It is now clear that a wide range of
mammals and birds can generalize over classes of stimuli in ways similar,
if not identical, to the generalization that the human trainers have in mind.
When tested, it turns out that, not surprisingly, the animals in question are
always much better at generalizing over genuine classes of stimuli than
over randomly assembled classes of stimuli, at which they perform no
better than chance. Of the experimental work mentioned here so far, I
am tempted to attribute learned concepts to the pigeons who have been
trained to discriminate between schools of painting. But, if the bar is to
be set even higher, see just below on animal learning of abstract relations,
and in the next section on some animals’ ability to ‘stand outside’ their
own generalizations.
The stimuli given to animals in such experiments are, being tightly con-
trolled, not rich in all the extra information that would come an animal’s
way in roaming the wild. Most stimuli, for example, are two-dimensional
pictures, are bland in smell, and make no noise. Occasionally, the animals
make a generalization that is not exactly what the human investigators
had in mind, but usually this can be traced to some accidental property
in the range of stimuli that escaped the researchers’ meticulous planning
(D’Amato and van Sant 1988). Of course, when we look for evidence of
concepts in animals, we shouldn’t expect them to have exactly the same
concepts that we do, just as we naturally don’t expect animals’ legs or
brains to match exactly with human legs or brains. Animals’ sensory
experiences, which form the basis of concepts, diﬀer from ours, to a greater
or lesser degree. For example, apes share with us trichromatic vision, with
red-, green-, and blue-sensitive receptors, whereas New World monkeys
such as marmosets have only receptors for two colour foci; and primates
generally have a reduced sense of smell compared to other mammals such
as dogs or rodents (Rouquier et al. 2000).
A simple extension of classiﬁcation tasks involves ‘reversal learning’.
Here an animal is ﬁrst trained to associate one stimulus with a reward and
another stimulus with lack of a reward. When the animal has attained a
certain degree of success, the relations between stimulus and reward are
reversed. The animal has to unlearn the old associations, and learn the
opposite associations. The idea is that if an animal can quickly reverse
its associations, it does so on the basis of some concept of oppositeness.
If, on the other hand, an animal takes just as long, or longer, to learn
the reversed associations as it took to learn the initial pairing, no appli-
cation of some concept of opposite, used as a mental shortcut, can be
Animals Approach Human Cognition 25
attributed. Furthermore, the experiments can be varied according to how
successful you let the animal get in the ﬁrst round of training. With ani-
mals that make no use of the opposite conceptual shortcut, the better
they have learned the ﬁrst set of associations, the longer they will take to
unlearn it and learn the reverse matchings. On the other hand, with ani-
mals that seem to make use of this conceptual trick, the better they have
learned the ﬁrst set, the more quickly they will be able to reverse it. Rum-
baugh and Pate (1984a, 1984b) compared diﬀerent species of primates
with this technique, showing great apes performing better than mon-
keys, and monkeys better than prosimians. Oppositeness is an abstract
relation, and our closest relatives seem able to apply this relational
concept.
The reversal learning experiments show more than an ability to apply
the relation of oppositeness. An animal that quickly learns the second,
reversed, association is, fairly clearly, not learning a whole new set in the
same painstaking way as it learned the ﬁrst set. It seems to be keeping
its old mental representation (concept) of the general class of stimuli
acquired in the ﬁrst training regime and relating the new set to that
acquired concept. Diagrammatically, and of course simplifying some-
what:
Training regime Prosimians Great apes
First session:
Stimulus-1 > reward Association of Formation of Concept of
Stimulus-2 > nothing Stimulus-1 with reward. Stimulus-1, and
association with reward.
Second session:
Stimulus-1 > nothing Association of Application of negation,
Stimulus-2 > reward Stimulus-2 with reward. or oppositeness to
(Diﬃcult unlearning Concept of Stimulus-1.
and relearning.) not(Stimulus-1)
associated with reward.
(Relearning facilitated by
use of acquired concept.)
In the (unconventional but insightful) terminology of Deacon (1997), the
prosimians are learning an indexical connection in both training regimes,
whereas the great apes, in the second training regime, are learning a sym-
bolic connection to a previously acquired inner representation. In relation
to a diﬀerent, but closely related, set of experiments, Deacon (1997, p. 89)
comments:
26 The Origins of Meaning
the shift from associative predictions to symbolic predictions is initially a
change in mnemonic strategy, a recoding. It is a way of oﬄoading redundant
details from working memory, by recognizing a higher order regularity in the
mess of associations, a trick that can accomplish the same task without having
to hold all the details in mind.
(We will return to closely related ideas in Volume 2, in connection with
vocabulary learning.)
Besides the oppositeness relation, some animals have also shown them-
selves capable of learning other relational concepts, too. Premack and
Premack (1983) reported an early study in which chimpanzees learned
to match one of a pair of diﬀerent objects to a sample object previously
shown to them (the ‘Match-to-Sample’, MTS, paradigm), thus exhibiting
a capacity to control the sameness relation. Thompson et al. (1997) went a
step further, and showed that chimpanzees could master a relation between
relations. In this case, rather than single objects, the samples and potential
matches were pairs of objects, either identical or diﬀerent. For example, a
chimpanzee was shown a pair AA as a sample, and then given two further
pairs, say BB and CD, as potential matches, being required to choose BB,
because that pair exhibited the same internal relation (sameness) as the
sample AA. It is relevant to point out that these chimpanzee subjects were
said by the authors to be ‘language-naive’, i.e. they had not been given
language training; but they had been previously trained with symbols for
the concepts same and different. This is important, because the ani-
mals had been artiﬁcially given ‘mental tools’ labelling the same pairs and
the diﬀerent pairs. It seems likely that they called up these mental tools
in the more abstract decision-making task. In Clark (2003, p. 70)’s terms,
the chimpanzees were provided by humans with a ‘cognitive shortcut’: a
shortcut or mental tool that doesn’t come to them in their wild state. By
contrast, humans, in initiating their babies into a linguistic environment,
provide them with thousands of such cognitive shortcuts. (This is explored
in more detail in the sequel to this book.)
This behaviour in chimpanzees contrasts with that of macaques.
Macaques, investigated by some of the same authors (Washburn et al.
1997; Kuczaj and Hendry 2003), could learn to make the required
responses to individual pairs, but could not generalize the same/diﬀerent
concepts across new pairs; essentially, the macaques had not learned what
is common to the same relation. Capuchin monkeys, on the other hand,
have been shown to be able to master generalized same/different tasks
to a limited extent. (D’Amato and Colombo 1985; Tavares and Tomaz
Animals Approach Human Cognition 27
2002): ‘in [capuchin] monkeys, the matching (or identity) concept has a
very limited reach; [these results] consequently do not support the view
held by some theorists that an abstract matching concept based on physi-
cal similarity is a general endowment of animals’ (D’Amato and Colombo
1989, p. 225). Thompson and Oden (1998) found that macaques could
not succeed at the relations-between-relations task successfully performed
by chimpanzees, as mentioned above. The gap between monkey and ape
abilities is stated somewhat more extremely by Thompson and Oden
(2000, p. 363): ‘There is no evidence that monkeys can perceive, let alone
judge, relations-between-relations. This analogical conceptual capacity
is found only in chimpanzees and humans.’ There is a tension in the
literature between researchers who claim qualitative diﬀerences between
species and those who assert that the diﬀerences are only quantitative.
Thus, counter to Thompson and Oden (2000), Katz et al. (2002, p. 367)
write, on the basis of training sessions of diﬀerent lengths with rhesus
monkeys:
The proposal made here is that most species (e.g., most vertebrates) ulti-
mately have a set-size function for abstract-concept learning. Some species
(e.g., pigeons) may have a set-size function that is lower than that for rhesus
monkeys and would require larger set sizes to achieve full abstract-concept
learning. Other species (e.g., chimpanzees) may have a set-size function that
is elevated relative to that for rhesus monkeys. If the set-size function is
suﬃciently elevated, then that species under those conditions might be able
to learn an abstract concept with very few items. Humans can demonstrate
equivalence relationships after being trained with small stimulus sets (e.g.,
Sidman et al. 1982).
The abstract concepts that these authors experimented with are same
versus different.
It has been shown that a California sea lion, trained to make same–
diﬀerent judgements, can remember the concept of sameness/diﬀerence,
and make correct responses to novel stimuli after a complete gap of
ten years after the initial training. ‘In the 10-year memory test, the sea
lion immediately and reliably applied the previously established identity
concept to familiar and novel sets of matching problems’ (Kastak and
Schustermann 2002, p. 225). Bermúdez (2003, pp. 112–114) argues that
identity is the wrong term to describe what these sea lions had mastered,
pointing out that there is no evidence that they had learned the logical
notion of identity, a relation between a thing and itself. What the sea lion
had learned was an equivalence relation, i.e. sameness in some respect.
28 The Origins of Meaning
This illustrates a typical interdisciplinary problem; by an innocent choice
of term, you risk appearing to workers in another discipline to be making
a stronger claim than you are actually making. I’m sure that Kastak and
Schustermann (2002) would be happy to give up identity and settle for
equivalence relation.
The famous trained African grey parrot, Alex, can top the performance
of some primates such as macaques (Pepperberg 2000). The advantage
of experimenting with Alex is that he can speak his responses. (This
is in fact highly relevant, because it has been argued, e.g. by Premack
(1983) and others, that language training actually changes an animal’s
cognition from some pristine natural state. This point is also relevant
to the example of allegedly non-language-trained chimpanzees from the
paragraph above. The eﬀect of learning public labels on thought will be
discussed in Volume 2.) Straightforwardly, Alex can name the colours,
shapes, and materials of objects presented to him. Not every object you
might think of, but a range of middle-sized (to a parrot) objects than can
ﬁt on a tray, with fairly salient colours, shapes, and materials. Then, given
three such objects on a tray, in answer to the question ‘What’s same?’,
Alex can correctly (usually) reply ‘Colour’ if they all have the same colour,
but are of diﬀerent shapes and materials. Likewise, he can correctly reply
‘Shape’ or ‘Matter’ if those are the properties common to all the displayed
objects. Furthermore, if the objects are diﬀerent in all their properties, he
can correctly reply ‘None’ to the question ‘What’s same?’ He also replies
‘None’ to the question ‘What’s diﬀerent?’ if all the objects are identical.
Alex is not simply memorizing particular training instances; he is able
to generalize to novel items. ‘[Alex] correctly answered 12 of 15 queries
of “What color?” and “What shape?” for ﬁrst-time ever presentations of
objects that varied in newly acquired colors and shapes (e.g. at the ﬁrst
ever presentation of a blue pentagonal piece of rawhide’ (Pepperberg 2000,
p. 60).
Note that these abilities of Alex’s go beyond classical ﬁrst-order pre-
dicate logic (FOPL), if we assume that the words Alex uses express predi-
cates in the same way as they do for humans.2
Alex, given a green object,
can clearly report that it is green. This only indicates ﬁrst-order logical
competence, applying a predicate to an individual object, as in green(x),
where ‘x’ stands for the object he is attending to. But the question put
2
It is hard to see how Alex’s words such as green and square could not express predicates
in pretty much the human sense, but a logician has argued to me that what is a predicate
for a human may not be for a parrot, even though both agree on applying the same symbol
to the same external object in the world, in response to similar questions.
Animals Approach Human Cognition 29
to Alex is ‘What colour?’ This means that he is capable of making the
second-order judgement colour(green), corresponding to ‘Green is a
colour’, because he does not respond to the ‘What colour?’ question with
a word for a shape or a material. Further, he is capable of a judgement
that can only be represented in quite abstract terms logically:
P1(x) & P2(y) & P1 = P2 & COLOUR(P1) & COLOUR(P2)
Roughly paraphrasing: ‘Object X has a certain property, object Y has an
identical property, and this property is a colour.’
Further experiments on birds (back to pigeons again) have also shown
strong evidence for an ability to learn the concepts of sameness and
diﬀerence (Cook et al. 1995; Wasserman et al. 1995; Cook and Wixted
1997; Young and Wasserman 1997). To my mind, these experiments are
convincing of the animals’ ability to attain such abstract concepts as same
and different. Commenting on these and similar results, Shettleworth
(1998, p. 227) has expressed the cautious experimental psychologist’s view
that ‘consideration of this line of research suggests that the line between
abstract concepts and direct perception of relationships may not be easy
to draw. Implicit knowledge of some abstract relationship may be embed-
ded in a highly speciﬁc perceptual module without the animal being able
to access it to control explicit, arbitrary, discriminative responses.’ This
brings us to the topic of the next subsection, where I will discuss the
further requirement on concepts that they be accessible for the control
of explicit discriminatory responses.
2.2 freewill, or at least some metacognition
I confess: ‘Freewill’ is a come-on heading. My question is not whether
any organisms have absolute freewill, being able to act independently of
external causation. It’s really a question of the depth and complexity of
control exercised by an animal over its actions and internal representa-
tions. An animal governed entirely by a set of simple reﬂexes has, we agree,
no concepts. Having a concept involves some ability to ‘stand outside’
one’s immediate behaviour, possibly to choose one’s next move, or eval-
uate alternative possibilities. This is at the heart of Davidson’s insistence,
quoted earlier, on the necessity of judgement or belief. Concepts should be
‘stimulus free’; working with them (i.e. thinking) should be somewhat vol-
untary, not completely involuntary or reﬂexive or automatic. Of course,
the very term ‘voluntary’ is problematic; I shall use it as a scalar term,
where a more voluntary act is one less immediately subject to external
30 The Origins of Meaning
stimuli, and correspondingly more determined by hidden inner mental
processes. This allows, of course, that these hidden processes are subject
eventually and indirectly to external stimuli.
‘When an organism knows what it knows, its actions are diﬀerent from
an organism that is locked out of its library of knowledge’ (Hauser 2003,
p. 80). A recent report of research on dolphins (Smith et al. 1995) and
macaques (Smith et al. 1997) concludes that ‘[T]here is a strong iso-
morphism between the uncertainty-monitoring capacities of humans and
animals. Indeed, the results show that animals have functional features
of or parallels to human metacognition and human conscious cognition’
(Smith and Washburn 2005, p. 19). ‘Uncertainty-monitoring’ refers to the
capacity to recognize how sure or unsure one is in making a judgement.
In other words, it has been shown that these higher animals are not
only able to register a ‘Yes’ or ‘No’ answer to a challenge put to them
by a researcher, but also to register an ‘I don’t know’ response. They
know whether or not they know something. This reveals a degree of self-
awareness, or metacognition, previously unsuspected in non-humans.
These same authors (plus a third) wrote a slightly earlier paper on
metacognition in Behavioral and Brain Sciences, where it attracted a num-
ber of peer commentaries. In their summary of the commentaries Smith
et al. (2003b, p. 358) conclude:
There was a strong consensus in the commentaries that animals’ perfor-
mances in metacognition paradigms indicate high-level decisional processes
that cannot be explained associatively. Our response summarizes this consen-
sus and the support for the idea that these performances demonstrate animal
metacognition.
This summary is somewhat partisan, as Shettleworth and Sutton (2006,
pp. 238–239) note: ‘We emphasize more than they do the methodological
issues ..., and we are accordingly less inclined to interpret the results as
evidence for human-like awareness or meta-cognition.’ But even these
cautious commentators conclude: ‘Thus only primates and perhaps a
dolphin have been proven rational in a strong sense that requires having
access to the reasons for their behaviour’ (Shettleworth and Sutton 2006,
p. 245).
The phrase ‘animal metacognition’ is too loose. Only some animals
have it. It has not (yet) been convincingly shown in birds. Sole et al.
(2003) carried out an experiment with pigeons similar in structure to those
claiming to establish metacognition in monkeys. They write:
Animals Approach Human Cognition 31
Like monkeys and people in related experiments, the birds chose the uncertain
response most often when the stimulus presented was diﬃcult to classify
correctly, but in other respects their behavior was not functionally similar
to human behavior based on conscious uncertainty or to the behavior of
monkeys in comparable experiments. Our data were well described by a
signal detection model that assumed that the birds were maximizing perceived
reward in a consistent way across all the experimental conditions.
(Sole et al. 2003, p. 738)
In other words, rather than being aware of their own uncertainty, the
pigeons were probably simply learning associations with three classes of
stimulus, the middle one of which the human experimenters had labelled
‘uncertain’.
The idea that some animals may respond to their own uncertainty has
only recently become acceptable as a topic of debate in psychology. Smith
et al. (2003a, p. 320) have a wry comment on the history of the idea:
It is possible that animals’ ancillary behaviors would betray their uncertainty
or conﬂict on threshold trials. These hesitations and waverings do sometimes
occur, and they made behaviorists uncomfortable because they suggested
that animals might be in mental turmoil over diﬃcult trials. Tolman even
suggested that these ‘lookings or runnings back and forth’ (Tolman 1938,
p. 27) could be taken as a behaviorist’s deﬁnition of animal consciousness
(Tolman 1927). As a behaviorist, Tolman sometimes misbehaved. Moreover,
twelve years later, Tolman retracted this claim (Tolman 1938, p. 27), thereby
completing his own theoretical ‘looking or running back and forth’.
A version of this running back and forth has been observed in pigs,
strongly correlated with an immediately recent wrong response. Keddy-
Hector et al. (2005) trained piglets on a same–diﬀerent task. To make
their choices the piglets had to enter either the left or the right arm of a
T-maze. Here is what the experimenters report (in a so far unpublished
paper):
Half of the animals used in the study attempted to immediately back out
of a T maze arm once it was entered. There was no movement or sign by
the experimenter to indicate whether or not the pig’s choice was a correct
response. A strong, positive correlation was found between the likelihood of
backing out and the percentage of correct responses by the same individ-
ual within a given trial (r = .819, p < .01, Spearman). Backouts were not
performed, however, during individual runs where the piglet made a correct
response. Instead backing out occurred almost exclusively during those runs
where the piglet made an incorrect choice (21/22 runs). Overall, the average
32 The Origins of Meaning
percentage of correct responses by piglets who attempted to back out of a
T maze arm was greater than those piglets who never exhibited any backout
behavior (p < .05, n = 13, m = 17, Mann-Whitney test).
(Keddy-Hector et al. 2005).
In other words, it could be argued that these piglets seemed to realize
immediately that they had just made a mistake, and attempted to correct
it by backing out of the wrongly chosen arm of the maze. An alternative
explanation3
is that the piglets did not make their initial decision until
after they had already randomly entered one or other arm of the maze,
and then did what was necessary to enter the correct arm. If they had
randomly entered the incorrect arm, this necessitated backing out. In this
case, the piglets are ‘thinking’, for example, ‘I need to go to the left-hand
arm’, and then going there, from wherever they happen to be, which might
be the right-hand arm. In this case, the piglets are not ‘thinking’ anything
like ‘Oh, damn, I made a mistake—I’m in the wrong arm.’4
I have given
this unpublished example so much space because it is clearly suggestive,
though in need of independent replication, and illustrative of the diﬃ-
culties of interpretation. Myself, I don’t know which interpretation to
prefer.
A capacity for metacognition involves the ability to take diﬀerent atti-
tudes to the content of propositions. In linguistic semantics, propositional
attitudes are expressed by such verbs as believe, know, wonder-whether,
want, and expect. The same proposition can be contemplated with any of
these attitudes. You can believe that John came, or know that he came,
or wonder whether he came, or want him to come, or expect him to
come. In each case, the same proposition5
is present to the mind, and
the organism can use a diﬀerent part of its mind to take an attitude to
this proposition. Bermúdez (2003, pp. 38–39), quite reasonably, makes the
ability to take diﬀerent propositional attitudes to the same propositional
content a criterion for full human-like propositional thinking. It seems to
me that familiar examples of animals’ behaviour are consistent with them
being able to take diﬀerent attitudes to the same proposition. Animals
that give alarm calls indicating the presence of predators, such as chickens
and vervets, seem to some degree to be able to choose whether to give
3
Pointed out to me by Dave Hawkey.
4
The inclusion of ﬁrst-person expression, such as I, in such a gloss is hard to avoid. It
should not be assumed that metacognition of one’s own internal states necessarily involves
representation of a separate entity that is ‘doing the cognizing’. See three paragraphs below
(p. 34) on self.
5
Ignoring tense.
Animals Approach Human Cognition 33
the alarm call or not, depending on whether there is an audience ready
to hear, especially if the audience is close kin (Karakashian et al. 1988;
Cheney and Seyfarth 1990). This can be read as the animal knowing the
proposition that there is a predator present, and in some cases deeming
this fact worth giving an alarm call for, and in other cases deeming it not
worth the labour of an alarm call. The animal, in other words, is making
some implicit judgement about the urgency of the proposition that there
is a predator present.
In all of this discussion of metacognition, the bogeymen of awareness
and consciousness frequently creep in. Animal experimenters keen to
emphasize the fact that their animal subjects are not responding directly
to some external stimulus, but to some internal state generated by the
problematic nature of the stimuli, sometimes use the terms ‘know’ and
‘aware’. When they do, they get immediately pounced on by philosophers.
Here’s an example, from a commentary on Smith et al. (2003a)’s seminal
article: ‘Granted, the animal needs to have some way of telling when it
is in a state of the required sort [uncertainty] ...But this doesn’t mean
that the animal has to conceptualize the state as a state of uncertainty’
(Carruthers 2003, p. 243). Carruthers’ use of the preposition as, like
Davidson’s, quoted earlier, seems to require some explicit label, presum-
ably linguistic. Notice, incidentally, that in avoiding saying that animals
need to have some way of knowing, Carruthers has little choice but to
use the more colloquial and less philosophically controversial telling, a
word which, etymologically at least, is even more language-bound than
knowing. Oddly, for Carruthers then, an animal can ‘tell’ when something
is the case, but not ‘know’ that it is the case. Attribution of awareness,
even of belief, desire, and intention, are often linked to possession of
language. I take the position that while the use of coherent language is
the strongest indicator of awareness, there can be awareness without lan-
guage. One can be ‘dimly aware’ of many things. The animal experiments
on metacognition have established that some animals can become aware
(perhaps only dimly, but enough to aﬀect their behaviour) of their own
inner states. It is clear that the levels of metacognition discovered, with
some eﬀort and ingenuity, in animals, are far below what normal adult
humans are capable of. Yet the seeds of human metacognitive capacity
are present in some animals. If one were to go further into this topic,
it might be held that animals display metacognitive regulation but not
metacognitive knowledge, a distinction made by Flavell (1979). That is,
possibly some animals can plan, monitor, and correct their own ongoing
mental activity, without having a permanent store of ‘known’ facts about
34 The Origins of Meaning
their own cognition in general, such as knowing that they can always ﬁnd
the way home. I am sceptical whether this latter kind of knowledge can be
disentangled from possession of language.
In speaking of animals ‘regulating their own behaviour’, we need, of
course, to avoid falling into the dualistic trap of supposing that there are
somehow two entities, the regulator and the regulated. I suppose that
the self-regulation of behaviour in animals works in a way analogous
to a thermostatic control on a heating device. One part of the machine
responds to heat and switches another part of the machine on or oﬀ; but
it is all just one (complex) machine, with diﬀerentiated parts. A regulatory
mechanism such as a thermostat does not regulate itself. When a thermo-
stat goes haywire, the thermostat doesn’t notice. Absolute reﬂexivity is not
possible where cause and eﬀect are involved.
There is another trap implicit in the self- of terms like self-awareness,
self-control, and self-regulation. By linguistic convention, for English at
least, self refers to the very same entity as some antecedent in a sentence.
For example, Mary scratched herself is usually logically translated as
scratch(mary, mary), thus identifying the exact same entity as both
the agent and the patient of the scratching. Even in such a simple case,
diﬀerent parts of Mary initiate the scratching and suﬀer it; Mary’s mind
initiates manual actions that result in her (own) body getting scratched—
not *Mary’s body initiates manual actions that result in her (own) mind
getting scratched! If there is in any animal a metacognitive mechanism, X,
that knows what other mechanisms, Y, Z, ..., in the same animal know, X
does not know how much X itself knows.6
Bickerton (1995, pp. 135–138) also lays the blame on the structure of
language for the illusion of a self that is somehow part of, yet simul-
taneously wholly in control of, ‘itself’. Bickerton singles out the uni-
versal subject–predicate distinction. He doesn’t mention Descartes, but
Descartes obviously thought that cogito could be analysed into a cogi-
tating subject and the separate action of cogitating (despite the absence
of an overt subject pronoun in the Latin). Bickerton, by contrast (and I
agree with him), claims that language deceives us here. ‘Instead of holistic
descriptions, “bird-ﬂying”, “cow-chewing”, and so on, we are obliged to
separate an actor or topic from an action, an event, or a state: “The
bird ﬂew”, “The cows chew”, and so on’ (p. 137). Bickerton’s eloquent
6
I chose to put it this way, with how much X knows, to avoid one of the two inter-
pretations of what X knows, which would have made the claim contradictory. Consider the
ambiguity of Bill knows what John knows. On one reading I know what I know is a tautology,
and its negation is a contradiction; it is the other reading that I claim cannot be the case.
Animals Approach Human Cognition 35
summary of his section ‘The inevitable invention of the self’ is ‘What I
intuitively feel myself to be [is] a web made up of stunningly diﬀerent types
of property (mental phenomena, physical phenomena, attributions by
others, abstract relationships, and so on) that are somehow held together
to yield the illusion of a single self-conscious self’ (p. 138).
Metacognition should be distinguished from metarepresentation. Being
aware of some inner state of one’s own is still solipsistic. It is a step
towards, but still short of, being aware of the mental states of others,
covered by the term metarepresentation. This distinguishes a simpler kind
of metacognition from that argued by by Gopnik (1993) to be involved
in children’s understanding of their own intentional states. Gopnik argues
that children’s representations of their own beliefs and desires are medi-
ated by the same internal representations as their understanding of the
intentional states of others. So, according to Gopnik, children’s know-
ledge of their own mental states is not a step short of knowing others’
mental states. I would argue that the logic of the two kinds of knowledge
can be diﬀerent, one not necessarily involving representation of a knowing
entity and the other necessarily doing so. For example, the piglet who
backed out of the wrong arm of the T-maze might have had the thought
expressed in the ungainly quasi-logical sentence That this is the correct
arm is wrong—in a more logical notation wrong(correct(this)).
Here the ﬁrst (or inner) clause represents the basic ﬁrst-order thought, and
the outer predicate wrong represents a second-order judgement about
that basic thought; there is no representation of the knowing piglet itself.
But an animal attributing a thought to another animal necessarily has
some representation of the other animal, as in the thought expressed by
Mary thinks the food is in the left-hand bucket. In this part of the book, on
(pre-linguistic) semantics, we are just considering how an animal solitarily
conceives its relationship to objects and events in its surroundings. The
issue of animals’ social dealings with conspeciﬁcs, which involves mind-
reading, or metarepresentation, will be taken up in Part II, on pragmatics.
This is a story about what some animals are capable of that can provide
an evolutionary foundation for human concepts. I’ll call the relevant
animal mental states ‘pre-linguistic concepts’. A couple of further remarks
are in order. Firstly, many of the results reported here describe what
animals can do in unnatural situations contrived by humans. These exper-
iments show what animals can do, if pushed. We don’t know how far ani-
mals in the wild exploit their own latent abilities. By contrast with humans,
animals’ concepts are poorly developed and patchily distributed across
species. Somehow or other, in the evolution of humans, abilities latent in
36 The Origins of Meaning
animals were pushed by some contingency or other, and our ancestors
started to move along the road to language. But there is a lot more
of this story yet to sketch out, in subsequent chapters. Secondly, many
researchers comment that there is a lot of individual variation in their ani-
mal subjects. There are smarter pigeons and dumber pigeons, savvy piglets
and slower piglets, clever macaques and not-so-clever macaques. We can
be sure that there was similar individual variation in our ancestors. Some
had better abilities to work with abstract relational concepts than others,
and some sometimes had more vivid awareness of their own inner mental
states than others. Individual variation is the fuel of natural selection. In
the area of ability to entertain concepts approaching human concepts,
the top-performing animals were presumably our ancestors. Many other
abilities had to fall into place, but an ability to entertain concepts of things
and events in the world was one necessary evolutionary building block for
human language as we know it.
2.3 object permanence and displaced reference
For us, and for all higher animals, objects exist. To the best of our
knowledge, and we are pretty certain, the world is structured in such a
way that physical matter very frequently forms into aggregations with
clearly deﬁned boundaries separating them from their surroundings. Hard
and not-so-hard surfaces exist, deﬁning the boundaries. How objects get
formed varies. It can be as simple as a chip of rock ﬂaking oﬀ a cliﬀ. In the
most complex case, biological objects such as human beings are assembled
by unfathomed processes and delivered into the world, exquisitely formed.
Physics, chemistry, and biology conspire and contrive to make it happen.
There are objects within objects: objects have parts, which are also
objects. Here the prototypical boundedness of objects bends a little, and
the relativity of the concept of an object begins to show. A ﬁnger is clearly
an object, and so is a ﬁngernail, but I am not happy to call an arbitrarily
deﬁned stretch of skin, unseparated from its body, a proper part, or indeed
an object. If we create boundaries round it, by slicing it out from its
body, it becomes clearly an object, a piece of skin. Human ideas of what
are objects change with cultures. The planet Earth is an object; this was
discovered by the Greeks, forgotten in the Dark Ages, and rediscovered in
the Renaissance. Language is not a good guide; the sky is not an object,
or at best is a marginal case. Nor, in a few cases, is perception even an
absolutely reliable guide; our visual systems can be tricked into perceiving
Animals Approach Human Cognition 37
things as objects which closer inspection, or rational inference from other
evidence, tells us are not what we really want to call objects.7
Perhaps for some very primitive organisms there are no objects, their
environment being to them all just stuﬀ to be sucked in or swum through.
In a psychologically well-informed philosophical discussion, Clark (2004)
distinguishes ‘three diﬀerent schemes of reference relevant to understand-
ing systems of perceptual representation: a location-based system dubbed
“feature-placing”, a system of “visual indices” referring to things called
“proto-objects”, and the full sortal-based individuation allowed by a
natural language’ (p. 451.8
). An evolutionary progression of ways of
representing the world can be seen through these three schemes, taken
as successive evolutionary stages. A ‘feature-placing’ system is a very
primitive form of mental representation, which just registers the presence
of qualities incoming from the world, without assigning them to particular
objects. For some sensations, this is adequate, and the best one can do,
for example noticing that it is hot where one is—not that any particular
object is hot, just that ‘it’, where one is, is hot. A feature-placing system
has no representation of individual objects. Strawson (1959) entertained
the idea of a language consisting solely of feature-placing propositions,
and concluded that it was inadequate for the purposes to which actual
languages are put. The main reason for the inadequacy of simple feature-
placing is that it has no way to accommodate the clusters of features,
bound together, that we recognize as particular objects, and which are
certainly psychologically real for us. In terms of the psychological theory
of attention, to be discussed in Chapter 4.3, it might be said that a feature-
placing system has only global attention, with no capacity for local atten-
tion to individual objects.
Particular objects exist for even so lowly a creature as an earthworm, as
Charles Darwin noticed. In his book The Formation of Vegetable Mould,
through the Action of Worms (Darwin 1881), he makes it very clear that
worms are able to size up objects, check out their shapes, and drag
them into their burrows in the most eﬃcient way. The objects they drag
are leaves and petioles of various kinds, pine needles, and little round
mini-pebbles. Darwin discusses the role of intelligence in this task, and
experimented by giving worms leaves from imported plants that would
7
Have a look at the website http://www.scientiﬁcpsychic.com/graphics/ for some great
fun examples of optical illusions, some of which involve ‘seeing’ objects, such as grey spots,
which aren’t really there. (This website was still active on 23/08/2006.)
8
See also Clark (2000), where these ideas are developed.
38 The Origins of Meaning
not have ﬁgured in earthworm phylogeny.9
It seems likely that earthworms
can only manage to represent one object at a time, unlike many mammals
and birds, who are capable of representing scenes or events with several
objects (see Ch. 4).
More complex animals with eyes clearly have their attention drawn to
objects and respond to their boundaries, by picking them up or moving
around them. And animals of roughly human size, say between mouse-
sized and elephant-sized, respond to objects in basic ways very similar
to humans. If they didn’t, most psychological experiments with animals
wouldn’t work. But there are diﬀerences in degree among mammals and
birds with regard to how much information about the nature of objects
is reﬂected in the animal’s behaviour. Munakata et al. (2001) found that
rhesus monkeys correlate independent movement with objecthood in the
same way as children; they also found some diﬀerences between the mon-
keys and humans, indicating that children are more aﬀected than monkeys
by seeing hands manipulate objects, and that the monkeys are more
responsive than children to changes in colour and texture in detecting
object boundaries.
In the enormous body of work on object permanence in humans and
animals, two principal experimental conditions stand out. These are ‘visi-
ble displacement’ and ‘invisible displacement’. In the visible displacement
condition, an object is visibly (to the animal subject) moved behind some
obstruction, such as a screen, and the animal is tested to see whether it
searches for the object behind the obstruction. The invisible displacement
condition is more complex. Here the object is, in sight of the subject,
placed inside a box, then the box is moved behind the obstacle and the
object is surreptitiously removed from it (but the object stays behind the
obstacle); the subject is then shown the empty box, and the experimenter
observes whether the animal looks behind the obstacle.10
There are many
local variations on these broad classes of experimental conditions.
The results, by the standards of results in animal behaviour, are rela-
tively clear-cut, although disputes remain about the abilities of particular
species in subtly varied subtypes of the experiments. Naturally enough,
every animal that can succeed at the invisible displacement task can also
succeed at the visible displacement task. Some birds cannot even do the
9
This little work is a great example of Darwin’s incredible curiosity, thoroughness,
systematic thinking, and humanity. It is a joy to read.
10
Note that these experiments implicitly rely on lack of biological motion (see next
subsection) in the hidden object. Hauser (1998b)’s cotton-top tamarins, mentioned below,
were not surprised when live mice appeared in a novel location.
Animals Approach Human Cognition 39
visible displacement task; these include domestic chicks (Etienne 1973).
Parrots, among the smartest of birds, can even succeed at the invisible
displacement task (Pepperberg et al. 1997), as can domestic dogs (Gagnon
and Doré 1992; Watson et al. 2001). As for the visible displacement task,
‘The tracking of an object moved visibly to a hiding location seems to be a
capacity shared by most vertebrates tested, including avians, nonprimate
mammals, and primates’ (Neiworth et al. 2003, p. 28). Neiworth et al.
(2003) provide an excellent thorough summary of results up to 2003.
Their ﬁndings are that apes are unequivocally capable of succeeding at
the invisible displacement task.11
Depending on experimental procedures,
diﬀerent results are obtained for monkeys. Neiworth et al. (2003) found
that cotton-top tamarins could manage all but the most complicated
versions of the invisible displacement task, an ability which previous
studies with these animals had not revealed. Squirrel monkeys, as so far
tested (de Blois et al. 1998), have not been able to succeed at the invisible
displacement task. Within primates, the closer the genetic relationship
to humans, the more likely it is, roughly, that an animal can solve the
invisible displacement task. But the patchy mosaic pattern often found
across animal behaviour can be seen in the relatively advanced abilities
of parrots, better than some monkeys. Human children typically manage
the invisible displacement task by about age 3.0 at the latest (Baillargeon
1995; Hood et al. 2003).
Although dogs, like children over age 3.0, can succeed at an invisible
displacement task, it has been shown by experiment and clever reason-
ing that children accomplish the task by a kind of logical deduction,
whereas dogs use a ‘less logical’ association mechanism. Watson et al.
(2001) showed a desirable object to their child and dog subjects, then
put it in a container, then passed the container behind three screens,
while surreptitiously tipping the object out of the container behind one
of the screens; ﬁnally the subject was shown the empty container and
expected to search for the object behind the screens. The children, after
not ﬁnding the object behind the ﬁrst two screens, tended to speed up
their search when looking behind the last screen. This can be accounted
for by assuming that the children were reasoning by logical negation of
disjunction—either A or B or C, and not A and not B, so it must be C.
The assumption is that having failed to ﬁnd the object behind the ﬁrst two
screens, the children were certain that it must be behind the third, and,
11
Tomasello and Call (1997, pp. 42–46), in an earlier survey, are more sceptical about
the abilities of apes at the invisible displacement task.
40 The Origins of Meaning
given this certainty, moved quickly to retrieve it. The dogs, on the other
hand, though they did continue searching after looking unsuccessfully
behind two screens, tended to search more slowly behind the third screen.
The authors attribute this behaviour to a diﬀerent ‘non-logical’ associative
process. The dog vaguely associates the object with a location somewhere
behind the screens, but tires of searching as this association weakens, and
searches less quickly after successive failures. But this does not invalidate
the more basic conclusion about object permanence in dogs: they can keep
an object in mind even when it has disappeared from sight.
Chimpanzees, our closest relatives, have no trouble at all with these
tests. Panzee, experimented on by Menzel (2005), routinely remembered
the type and location of hidden objects, sometimes overnight. By contrast,
in dogs, memory for the location of a hidden object declines as a function
of the interval between hiding and seeking, even for intervals as short as
one minute, though they still perform better than chance with intervals of
up to four minutes (Fiset et al. 2003). Menzel’s experimental target with
the chimpanzee was episodic memory (memory for speciﬁc events—see
next chapter) rather than object permanence. The issues are intertwined,
as it is hard to imagine episodic memory without the capacity for object
permanence. It is surprising that this connection is not often made in the
literature.
Knowing that an object is permanent takes a cognitive step beyond
simple perception of the object. It involves knowing something about
an object even when it is inaccessible to perception. During perception,
the brain tracks perceived objects by attending to them, concurrently
absorbing some information about them. When objects disappear behind
a screen, they can no longer be attended to, and only the absorbed infor-
mation remains, as a representation of the no-longer-present object. Even
if an attended-to object does not disappear, but the eyegaze is quickly dis-
tracted away to another object, this distraction does not impede process-
ing of the information taken in about the ﬁrst object focused on and
used to recognize what it is (Irwin and Brockmole 2004). See Santos
et al. (2002) for experiments showing that rhesus macaques apply stored
information about an object to maintain its identity, just as humans
from about 1 year of age do. The ability to solve the displacement tasks,
especially the invisible displacement task, shows that apes, humans (over
age 3.0), and surprisingly parrots can maintain a representation of an
object in a mental space controlled by knowledge, rather than perception.
The capacity to know something about an object, even when ‘it isn’t
there’, is a ﬁrst step along the road to the impressive characteristic of
Animals Approach Human Cognition 41
human languages: their capacity for displaced reference. ‘Displacement’
was noted by Hockett as one of his list of ‘design features of language’
(Hockett 1960; Hockett and Altmann 1968). We can talk about things
very distant from our senses, such as the far side of the Moon and last
year’s potato crop. An animal that cannot represent an object out of its
view cannot begin to work with displaced reference. Humans’ ability to
create labyrinthine mental models of spaces, and the movement of objects
within them, without direct appeal to perception, exceeds the capacity
of any non-human. As the diﬀerence between the psychologist’s visible
and invisible displacement tasks is a matter of the amount of mental
computation involved, the impressive abilities of humans in this regard
may be seen as a quantitative, rather than a qualitative advance over non-
human animals. Displaced reference in language starts its evolutionary
trajectory with an intuition of object permanence.
The topics of displaced reference and object permanence interact with
the issue of whether pre-linguistic mental representations need a special
category such as the individual constants of Predicate Logic. Logical
individual constants correspond roughly to proper names in language,
but also convey the absolute uniqueness in the universe of the individual
object denoted. This will be taken up in Chapter 5.2.
In language, nouns prototypically denote solid physical objects, avail-
able to perception. But languages also stretch the noun category far
beyond physical objects. It is possible that the escape from perception-
dependence, seen in the intuition of object permanence, also brings with
it the seeds of an ability to create abstract mental spaces, populated by
abstract objects, such as virtues, numbers, nationalities, religions, and
grammatical rules.
2.4 biological motion and animacy
Stimuli prompting reﬂex responses are typically relatively simple. There
are some behaviours which are automatically triggered by considerably
more complex inputs. ‘Biological motion’ is a label attached to a kind
of motion typical of an animal; it is distinct from trees waving in the
wind, rocks tumbling down a cliﬀ, waves in the sea, or eddies in a stream.
Recognizing biological motion is not just a matter of certain sensors being
excited. There has to be a quite complex calculation of the temporal and
spatial relations among the moving parts. In many animals, including
humans, a disposition to recognize biological motion is hardwired: there
42 The Origins of Meaning
is no question of learning a concept of biological motion; we recognize it
instinctively without training:
Here we report that newly hatched chicks, reared and hatched in darkness, at
their ﬁrst exposure to point-light animation sequences, exhibit a spontaneous
preference to approach biological motion patterns. Intriguingly, this predis-
position is not speciﬁc for the motion of a hen, but extends to the pattern of
motion of other vertebrates, even to that of a potential predator such as a cat.
The predisposition seems to reﬂect the existence of a mechanism in the brain
aimed at orienting the young animal towards objects that move semi-rigidly
(as vertebrate animals do), thus facilitating learning, i.e., through imprinting,
about their more speciﬁc features of motion. (Vallortigara et al. 2005)
Perception of biological motion in chicks appears to be a case such
as described by Shettleworth (1998, p. 227), quoted earlier, of ‘implicit
knowledge of some abstract relationship ...embedded in a highly speciﬁc
perceptual module without the animal being able to access it to control
explicit, arbitrary, discriminative responses’. The story is more compli-
cated, however, because chicks respond better to simultaneous visual and
acoustic imprinting stimuli than to the same stimuli presented in sequence
(Honey and Bolhuis 1997). Can we interpret Shettleworth’s ‘highly spe-
ciﬁc perceptual module’ as involving both vision and hearing?
The biological motion studies take oﬀ from a paper by Johansson
(1973), who showed that human babies attend preferentially to mobile
patterns generated by lights attached to the joints of moving animals.
Biological motion is a basic component of higher-level perceptual judge-
ments. Jokisch and Troje (2003) showed that in human subjects the partic-
ular stride frequency of an example of biological motion (in a simulated
dog) was used as a clue to size and distance from the observer.
Two parallel literatures deal with essentially the same topic, under the
headings of ‘biological motion’ or ‘animacy’. Reporting results under
the term animacy, Hauser (1998b) watched the reactions of cotton-top
tamarins to the appearance of four diﬀerent kinds of object in a novel
location after the object had moved (or been moved) out of sight. Of
the four diﬀerent kinds of object, only one type, the animate ones, such
as live frogs and mice, evoked no apparent surprise (as measured by
looking time12
) when they appeared in a novel location. Self-propelled but
inanimate objects, such as clockwork mice, did evoke an apparent surprise
12
Looking time is the period during which an experimental subject continues looking at
some stimulus before looking away, presumably because the stimulus no longer commands
attention.
Animals Approach Human Cognition 43
reaction. Hauser summarizes, rather cautiously, ‘Some feature other than
self-propelled motion accounts for the tamarins’ looking time responses
and at least one candidate feature is whether the object is animate or
inanimate’ (Hauser 1998b, p. 31).
A disposition to treat animate objects diﬀerently does not necessarily
correlate with expectations that an observed object will behave rationally.
Gergely et al. (1995) showed that 12-month-old children interpreted the
movement of computer-animated shapes without human features as a
case of goal-directed rational action. Indeed it is common for people to
attribute human goals to robots that are obviously machines. Human
babies at 9 months react diﬀerently to moving images depicting causal
events from the way they react to similar images depicting non-causal
events, suggesting a very early grasp by human infants of the quite
abstract relation of cause (Schlottmann and Surian 1999). To my knowl-
edge, no non-human animal has shown such a capacity.
Biological motion and animacy diﬀer in degree of abstraction. Bio-
logical motion involves an immediate perceptual (possibly multimodal)
response to an experience, whereas animacy reﬂects a more permanent,
and less perception-dependent, judgement. A sleeping dog is animate, but
(except for dreaming twitches) does not exhibit biological motion. Ani-
macy is a generalization from biological motion. Anything which could
exhibit biological motion, though it may be inert at the time of referring
to it, is credited with animacy. Animacy is potential biological motion.
The step from biological motion to animacy involves more than just
perception; it involves forming a hypothesis about objects exhibiting
biological motion. Barrett (2004) lists a number of criteria giving clues
to agency (equivalent to animacy here). As he argues, there are strong
evolutionary pressures on any animal to detect animacy in the objects
around it, and clearly almost all species have solved the problem quite
well. ‘There are beneﬁts associated with success and costs associated with
failure (e.g. realizing or failing to realize that what appears to be a log
is really a crocodile), and these, summed statistically over time, have
shaped the evolution of agency detection systems that are present in all or
most animal species’ (Barrett and Behne 2005, p. 95). Barrett (2005) also
emphasizes the adaptivity of detecting agency in an environment where
one is constantly likely to be on the lookout for either predators or prey.
Biological motion is salient for many animals.
A particularly problematic case is that of dead animals, which show
conﬂicting clues to animacy and inanimacy. Barrett and Behne (2005)
have investigated this cross-culturally in human children, ﬁnding that
44 The Origins of Meaning
German children and Shuar children living in the Ecuadorean Amazon
discriminated in signiﬁcantly similar ways between sleep and death, when
presented with these two conditions in stories. It is not clear from Barrett’s
study how much this coincidence between German and Shuar children is a
matter of similar cultural traditions in the two societies. The children were
told whether the protagonist in a story was asleep or dead, and then asked
questions about it. What was not investigated was any actual perceptual
mechanisms that might be involved in deciding between sleep and death
in the case of encountering a real body. Gärdenfors (2003, pp. 131–132)
reports chimpanzee mothers carrying their dead babies around for several
days, appearing ‘perplexed rather than mourning’, and also a case of a
baboon mother carrying its dead infant around. It seems likely that the
features that prompt a mother to look after her baby, such as small size
and a very particular smell, override the importance of (non-existent)
signs of biological motion in a dead baby.13
And of course humans can
be deceived about death, both ways: living people are sometimes given up
for dead, and buried, and conversely dead bodies are sometimes kept in
the hope that they will ‘wake up’.14
What remains an open question is how many non-humans make
the cognitive inferential step from biological motion to animacy (a.k.a.
agency), rather than relying on purely perceptual reﬂex-like mechanisms
to take the beneﬁcial action, such as ﬂight from a predator or pouncing
on prey. Inferring animacy in objects is the ﬁrst step towards a full-
blown ‘Theory of Mind’ necessary for communications of one’s inner
representations to other members of one’s community, a topic to which
we will return in Part II, on pragmatics.
Biological motion and its more abstract derivative, animacy, impinge
strongly on linguistic structure, in at least three ways. Firstly, many human
languages discriminate grammatically between words denoting animate
objects. The animacy feature is deep-seated in semantic universals.
Many noun-classiﬁcation systems use the category of animate things. In
pathology, access to words denoting animates may be selectively impaired
or selectively spared (Hillis and Caramazza 1991). Mandler (1992, 1994)
has proposed that pre-linguistic infants have access to perceptual features
13
See also sections 3 and 4 of Allen and Hauser (1991) for discussion of animal
behaviour in response to death, and the question of whether animals can have a concept
dead.
14
Particularly touching is the episode in the Third Millennium bc Epic of Gilgamesh,
in which the hero king Gilgamesh refuses to believe in the death of his friend Enkidu until
a worm appears from Enkidu’s nostril.
Animals Approach Human Cognition 45
giving rise to their subsequent command of the category of animacy.
These perceptual features are of the same kind as described in experiments
on animals’ susceptibility to biological motion. The foundations for the
animacy feature were laid down in our pre-human ancestors. Secondly,
there is also, of course, a very strong tendency for words denoting bio-
logical motion to be verbs. This is a one-way inclusion relationship: many
verbs (such as sleep, lie, rest, own, belong, know, and think) do not denote
biological motion. There is not a simple correlation between grammatical
verbs and the semantic category of actions, but any biological motion is
extremely likely to be expressed by a verb. A third connection between
biological motion and linguistic structure is seen in the theta-role (or
participant role) labelled ‘Agent’. Many theories postulate a level of lin-
guistic structure in which the objects or persons involved in some event are
labelled with terms indicating their manner of participation in the event.
These terms include ‘Agent’, ‘Patient’, ‘Instrument’, and many others, but
the ‘Agent’ role is the most commonly mentioned and the least contro-
versial. Identiﬁcation of the Agent in an event is strongly correlated with
biological motion. The Agent in an event described by The cat caught the
mouse or The mouse was caught by the cat is the cat. And in such an event,
the participant displaying most biological motion is the cat. Though the
mouse may move, it may just cower, whereas the cat has to move to be the
Agent in an act of catching.
2.5 structured conceptual content and
transitive inference
We saw earlier that Alex the parrot showed second-order knowledge in
his ability to tell, for instance, that green is a colour, and that square
is a shape. Another possible, and more powerful, instance of animals’
ability to work with second-order judgements involves transitive inference.
If Eve is older than Jack and Jack is older than Rosie, it follows that Eve
is older than Rosie. This relies on an assurance that the relation ‘older
than’ is transitive. We humans know that a chain of inference like this can
be continued as long as necessary, involving tens or even thousands of
‘links’ in the chain.15
It is this potential to generate an unlimited number
of inferences that makes the transitivity of a relation more powerful than,
for instance, the classiﬁcation of red, green, and blue as belonging to the
15
Hurley (2006, p. 139) has labelled this unbounded capacity to follow a chain of
reasoning ‘inferential promiscuity’.
46 The Origins of Meaning
class of colours. Humans can learn the transitivity of a relation without
necessarily being aware in any explicit sense of what they are learning,
as an experiment by Greene et al. (2001) has shown. They gave students
pairs of unfamiliar Japanese characters, and required them to pick one
character. The ‘correct’ character was always the ‘greater’ one in an arti-
ﬁcial hierarchy set up by the experimenters. Thus choice of character C
was correct if it was presented with the character D, but incorrect if it
was presented with the character B. Subjects only ever saw pairs, and
some were not told that a hierarchy was involved. Of these uninformed
subjects, some worked out that a hierarchy was involved, as they told the
experimenters after the experiment, but others did not show any explicit
awareness of a hierarchy. Even these ‘unaware’ subjects learned to pick
the correct symbols. In some sense, they had internalized the hierarchical
rule without it reaching a level of conscious awareness.
Can animals do it? If they can do it beyond any reasonable doubt that
they are not just memorizing lots of separate associations, then this ability
would show that they can not only learn a relation (e.g. stronger-
than) but also make an inductive second-order generalization about this
relation, namely that it is transitive. Further, an animal with this capacity
would be able to follow through the deductive consequences implied by
the transitivity of the relation, and have access to items of information
not individually memorized. In another context, this would be called
‘generativity’. Not surprisingly, there is an extensive literature on whether
non-human animals can do transitive inference.
The issue is well surveyed by Allen (2006): ‘It is widely accepted that
many species of non-human animals appear to engage in transitive infer-
ence, producing appropriate responses to novel pairings of non-adjacent
members of an ordered series without previous experience of these pair-
ings. Some researchers have taken this capability as providing direct evi-
dence that these animals reason. Others resist such declarations, favouring
instead explanations in terms of associative conditioning’ (Allen 2006,
p. 175). Allen points to the conﬂicting traditions and styles of labora-
tory experimental psychologists and ﬁeld ethologists. Lab studies usually
involve training on ecologically unnatural stimuli, and typically cannot
work with chains of more than about ﬁve possible inferential links.
As far as lab studies are concerned, there is some strongly suggestive
evidence that some animals, especially those that live in large social
groups, are capable of transitive inference. The pioneering work was
by McGonigle and Chalmers (1977), working with squirrel monkeys.
Trained on ﬁve separate adjacent pairs from a sequence devised by the
Animals Approach Human Cognition 47
experimenters, the monkeys were able to make the ‘correct’ responses
when presented with a non-adjacent pair. Bond et al. (2003) found that
both pinyon jays and scrub jays were capable of some degree of transitive
inference. Birds from both species were trained to know the order in pairs
of colour stimuli, an arbitrary order determined by the experimenters, for
example red precedes green, green precedes blue, blue precedes magenta,
and so on, for seven diﬀerent colours, hence six ‘adjacent’ pairs. Then
the birds were given non-adjacent pairs, to see if they could respond con-
sistent with transitive inference, for example knowing that red precedes
magenta. Both species managed the task, but pinyon jays, who live in large
colonies of up to 500, were better at it than scrub jays, who live in pairs.
The two species are closely related.
Lab results are dogged by problems of alternative interpretation. In
relation to a study on pigeons, von Fersen et al. (1991) argue that a
hypothesis of ‘value transfer’, an inherently ‘less cognitive’ (my phrase, not
theirs) hypothesis, can account for the data. This value transfer hypothesis
is explained in an intuitively clear way by Wynne (2001, pp. 155–156).
Interestingly, Wynne advocates this value transfer hypothesis not as an
alternative to transitive inference, but rather as the mechanism by which
certain animals, in certain situations, achieve transitive inference. Wynne
also notes the correlation between social species and an ability to do
transitive inference.16
In fact, there are a number of diﬀerent mecha-
nisms theoretically capable of achieving transitive inference, each making
somewhat diﬀerent predictions about the error patterns. Treichler et al.
(2003) trained macaques on three separate lists of ﬁve items, then gave
them examples of lists linked at the edges, and the monkeys immediately
inferred an ordered ﬁfteen-item list, thus transferring within-list transitive
inference to new items as soon as relevant data appeared. Hogue et al.
(1996) showed that hens could make the appropriate inference about a
stranger hen’s probable dominance relation to themselves, on witnessing
the stranger interact with another hen already known to them. Thus a hen
would steer clear of a stranger whom she had witnessed defeating a hen
dominant to her; and she would risk attacking a hen whom she had seen
being defeated by a hen dominant to her. This can be taken as evidence of
transitive inference. Dusek and Eichenbaum (1997) trained rats on
16
In case the phrase ‘social species’ brings to mind a worry about insects, you may be
relieved to know that Benard and Giurfa (2004, p. 328) found, not surprisingly, that ‘bees
do not establish transitive inferences but, rather, guide their choices by the joint action of a
recency eﬀect and the associative strength of the stimuli’.
48 The Origins of Meaning
a set of four overlapping odor discrimination problems that could be encoded
either separately or as a single representation of orderly relations among the
odor stimuli. Normal rats learned the problems and demonstrated the rela-
tional memory organization through appropriate transitive inferences about
items not presented together during training. By contrast, after disconnec-
tion of the hippocampus from either its cortical or subcortical pathway,
rats succeeded in acquiring the separate discrimination problems but did not
demonstrate transitive inference. (Dusek and Eichenbaum 1997, p. 7109)
The transitive inference literature naturally overlaps with reports of work
on animals’ ability to infer serial order in lists, since pairwise information
on order plus transitive inference is a list. Brannon and Terrace (2000)
found that rhesus monkeys could infer the ‘correct’ order of objects of ﬁve
diﬀerent magnitudes in the range 5–9, having been trained on the ordering
of a diﬀerent but comparable set of objects with magnitudes in the range
of 1–4. The monkeys were applying a kind of transitive inference, beside
translating size information into serial order information.
Field ethologists base their claims for transitive inference on obser-
vation and experiment in connection with social dominance hierarchies.
Baboons, for example, live in troops as large as eighty, and the animals dis-
play an accurate and immediately accessible knowledge, for any random
pair of individuals, of who dominates whom. See, for example, Seyfarth
and Cheney (2003). The number of possible pairs in a population of eighty
is 3,160. It is most implausible that a baboon would store 3,160 separate
facts about dominance relations in its troop. For knowledge of social
hierarchies, at least, it seems inescapable that some animals are capable
of transitive inference.
In conclusion, animals, especially social species, have access to internal
representations that are internally generated by inference. The correlation
between this mental activity and the animals’ social circumstances is inter-
esting, and will be taken up in the next part of the book, on pragmatics.
Note for the present that this is a form of semantic knowledge about the
outside world; conspeciﬁcs are no less objects in the outside world for
being conspeciﬁcs. And animals capable of transitive inference are also
capable of recruiting this ability to perform satisfactorily on ecologically
unnatural materials, like coloured cups hiding nuts. So, although there is
a tendency to domain-speciﬁcity in the transitive inference capability, it
can ‘escape’ the domain of social relations and be applied to other tasks,
even by animals.
Animals Approach Human Cognition 49
Social primates’ inner representations of the social relations in
their troop are more complex than a simple one-dimensional ranking.
Embedded in the rank hierarchy is information about family relationships,
and this relates systematically to the ranking information. Baboon females
in a troop, for example, are ranked from topmost to humblest. The oﬀ-
spring of a superior female outrank the oﬀspring of an inferior female.
This adds a second dimension to the hierarchical knowledge that must
be attributed to the socially competent baboon (and they are all pretty
socially adept, by baboon standards). Individuals are classiﬁed by others
simultaneously according to both individual rank and kinship (Bergman
et al. 2003). The reasoning that it seems plausible to attribute to a socially
competent baboon can be expressed in traditional logical terms like this,
with the premisses above the line, and the conclusion below it:
Given: offspring(a, b)
offspring(c, d)
outrank(b, d)
Therefore: outrank(a, c)
Here, the outrank premiss may itself be the conclusion from a chain
of transitive inference. Furthermore, baboons are also able to distinguish
troop members from non-troop members and conspeciﬁcs from non-
conspeciﬁcs. This suggests that they have a taxonomic hierarchy of con-
cepts: conspecific < troop member < individual.
2.6 semantic memory, a store of non-linguistic
knowledge
A central idea of this part of the book is that there can be a kind of
semantics independent of language, an idea which is no doubt strange
to linguists, in particular. Linguists are used to thinking of semantics as
dealing with the meanings of words and sentences. This section ﬂeshes out
the idea of semantic memory as the set of representations in an organism’s
brain corresponding to regularities experienced in external objects and
situations. Here I will explore the ways in which such permanent cognitive
representations may be stored in brains, and how they relate to ﬂeeting
perceptual experiences.
The representation of hierarchy that we saw in the last section goes
beyond the permanence of objects and inference of agency from biological
50 The Origins of Meaning
motion. Further still, animals can bring to mind wished-for situations
that do not exactly ﬁt their immediate perceptual experience. Kanzi, for
example, signed fairly explicitly that he wanted the group room unlocked
so that he could see his mother, Matata (Segerdahl et al. 2005, p. 59).
Animals can creatively synthesize representations of wished-for situations
from the stored conceptual components in their ‘semantic memory’. Inter-
estingly, trained apes such as Kanzi are quite good at utterances with
present-time imperative force, but more reticent than humans at giving
information about events that happened yesterday or earlier, and mostly
they don’t oﬀer information about the future beyond the next few minutes.
There are attested exceptions which, by their very remarkableness, show
at least the large quantitative gap between humans and apes. Sue Savage-
Rumbaugh17
tells of promising Kanzi a treat tomorrow and then being
reminded of the promise the next day. Kanzi is no ordinary animal, but
‘prospective object permanence’ (Gómez, 2004)—i.e., the ability to look
for objects you have not yet seen, whose existence you are assuming—may
be demonstrated in many foraging activities by animals. An alternative
explanation for foraging behaviour is that animals simply cruise their
environment without any representation of desired food in mind, and are
stimulated to act accordingly when they happen to encounter it. Such
a weaker account does not require any prospective representation, but
does involve some kind of prior categorization of objects perceived, in
order to account for the systematic selective response, for example, eat
or don’t eat. Most surveys of foraging behaviour (e.g. in Shettleworth
1998) attribute some memorial representation of good foraging locations
to some animals.
Maybe the typically unforthcoming nature of ape communication with
humans beyond immediate needs is just a pragmatic matter of motivation:
generally they can’t see the point of communicating about anything other
than the here-and-now. But any pragmatic limitation is likely to have had
knock-on eﬀects on apes’ characteristic cognition; they just don’t readily
store information about episodes that happened in the past yesterday
or earlier. They certainly lack the voracious acquisition of memories of
past events that is found in humans (see the next chapter). The lack-
of-motivation explanation without at least a modest lack-of-cognitive-
capacity account is implausible, as any animal with the capacity would
surely ﬁnd some occasion to use it. The social motivation to communicate
and the cognitive wherewithal for communication co-evolve.
17
Personal communication.
Animals Approach Human Cognition 51
Many have attributed to animals ‘small-scale models of external reality’
(Craik 1943) or ‘inner worlds’ (Gärdenfors 2004). I am very sympathetic
to such claims, especially for mammals. For those still stuck in scepticism,
there needs to be some ﬂeshing out of how a languageless animal can have
small-scale models of external reality, or an inner world of concepts, and
of the mechanisms by which these internal structures interact with the
outside world. So, with the reservation that animal concepts are still in
several ways short of human concepts, I will brieﬂy give it a try. The ﬁrst
hurdle to overcome is to grant that what is private is nevertheless real and
can be intruded upon by science. The second step is to realize that when we
penetrate the barrier between public and private, we enter a new territory
where familiar public instruments don’t help us to navigate. Outside the
brain there are colours, smells, noises, touchable surfaces, hot and cold.18
All these external stimuli get transformed in the brain to patterns of ﬁring
of neurons. By carefully watching the ﬁring of an animal’s sensory neurons
while controlling its outside environment, clear correlations can be found
between patterns of neural activity and classes of external stimuli. This is
on the perception side, what is input to the brain. On the output side, in
the public world, animals blink, swallow, reach, grasp, turn their heads,
move their arms and legs. Inside the brain there are no arms and legs
to move, but classes of an animal’s bodily movements can be correlated
with patterns of motor neurons ﬁring. We can’t explore human brains in
such detail, for ethical reasons, but correlations between brain damage
and sensory or motor impairments conﬁrm a wide range of similarities
between the workings of animal, especially primate, brains and ours.
Given a fair idea of how neurons work, it becomes possible to construct
computer models, to test out the internal consistency of hypotheses about
brain workings, and to ﬁnd what predictions these hypotheses make, for
checking against empirical data. In parallel with the advances of neuro-
science, there have been signiﬁcant advances in computer modelling of
brain activity.19
In short, new technologies have opened up a Pandora’s
box. Now that we are able to look inside the brain, we realize how daunt-
ingly much there is to discover. We are also strongly reinforced in our
belief in the fundamental similarities between animal and human mental
workings.
18
I choose to put it it this realist way, rather than resort to more cumbersome phe-
nomenological wordings, such as ‘there are causes of the experiences of colours, noises,
touchable surfaces, hot and cold’.
19
Tyler et al. (2000) and Wu and Levy (2001) are good examples of a combination of
experimental psychology and computer modelling.
52 The Origins of Meaning
At a basic level, pioneering work by Hubel and Wiesel (1959) showed
that diﬀerent individual neurons in cats were responsive to diagonal lines
at diﬀerent angles. Information from such cells is fed forward to cells
which combine input from both eyes (Hubel and Wiesel 1968); this is
an early instance of the integration of simple information into a more
complex assemblage of information. Again at a basic level, photorecep-
tor neurons with diﬀerent pigments in the retina are sensitive to diﬀer-
ent wavelengths and diﬀerent intensities of incoming light. But a given
photoreceptor cannot distinguish a bright light with a little green in it
(say) from a dimmer light with more green in it, so its ﬁring response is
ambiguous as to the ‘real’ colour input. Real-colour vision is achieved
by higher levels of the visual system integrating whole patterns of signals
from many diﬀerent photoreceptors, sensitive to diﬀerent wavelengths.
The overall message is that the sensations that we can become consciously
aware of, such as the colour or shape of an object, are the result of much
transformation, via many integrating and diﬀerentiating way-stations.
Nevertheless, after all this transformation, persistent correlations are seen
between overall patterns of activation in various brain centres and classes
of external stimuli. It seems reasonable to say that these ﬁring patterns
represent the classes of input stimuli, in the animal concerned.
Brains are excellent integrators of multisensory information. Inde-
pendent stimuli coming from the eyes, the ears, and the skin can be
integrated into uniﬁed responses. Stein et al. (1998, p. 440) mention an
example in which ‘the visual stimuli and the auditory stimulus are not
very eﬀective when presented individually within their respective receptive
ﬁelds. However, when presented at the same time, their combined response
is enhanced far beyond the sum of the two unimodal responses’. This
is an example of a single neuron (in the superior colliculus) integrating
coherent information from two diﬀerent senses. The superior colliculus is
an integrating way-station. It is easy to see how such integration could
facilitate uniﬁed internal representations of complex happenings outside
the body. Stein et al. (1998) also note the extremely ancient evolutionary
foundations of such multisensory convergence and integration, which,
they say, ‘are evolutionary ancient schemes that antedate mammals and
even the evolution of the nervous system’ (p. 440).
Detection of biological motion is very complex, involving tracking
diﬀerent shapes moving in rough, but not perfect, unison. In humans, it
has been shown that diﬀerent parts of the brain are actively involved in
the processing of diﬀerent types of biological motion. Bonda et al. (1996,
p. 3737) showed
Animals Approach Human Cognition 53
that the interpretation of diﬀerent types of biological motion engages brain
systems in a diﬀerential manner. ...The perception of scripts of goal-directed
hand action selectively activated areas in the posterior part of the left hemi-
sphere within the intraparietal sulcus and the caudal superior temporal
sulcus. By contrast, the perception of signs embedded in expressive body
movements involves interaction between temporal neocortex and limbic areas
critical for emotional eﬀector patterns of behavior.
It should not surprise us that diﬀerent gestures that we can recognize and
talk about are registered by diﬀerent brain mechanisms. As far as can be
seen, other primates also react systematically to similar ranges of gestures,
and it is natural to suppose that the complex biological motion gestures
recognized by primates likewise activate characteristic brain areas, and
activity in these areas can be said to represent these categories of action,
which are meaningful to the animals.
Diﬀerent types of biological motion play a part in recognition of spe-
ciﬁc categories of animal. Say I see a small brownish shape on my lawn and
am not sure, from a distance, what it is. It jumps, so I realize it is a frog.
Alternatively, it scurries along the ground, and I conjecture that it could
be a mouse. Or a breeze picks it up, and I realize it is a leaf. Jumping and
scurrying are types of biological motion, for us.20
An ability to distinguish
at a distance between a frog and a mouse, by its characteristic motion,
shows that speciﬁc types of motion are components of our concepts of
these creatures. At other times, other characteristic features come into
play: we can tell a dead frog from a dead mouse. Our concept of a mouse,
say, is a complex of many diﬀerent features, its size, its shape, its colour,
its way of moving, maybe the texture of its fur, each of which we can be
separately aware of, and in some cases name with a word. But naming
with a word is only incidental. I can distinguish the ﬂight of a pigeon
from that of a crow, but I can’t easily put the diﬀerence into words. Here
is a hint from a dedicated birdwatcher: ‘You can turn to another trick of
the birder’s trade: the art of identifying birds by “jizz”. Jizz is basically
the “feel” of a bird; some indeﬁnable characteristic based not on plumage
detail, but on shape, movement and habits’ (Moss 2005). ‘Jizz’ is the je ne
sais quoi that we use in the familiar experience of not being able to describe
a certain kind of thing, but nevertheless clearly knowing one when we see
one.
20
Presumably cats, who sometimes chase wind-blown leaves, have a diﬀerent concep-
tion, one that is less adaptive, because they don’t eat leaves. But maybe cats are just playing.
54 The Origins of Meaning
The point to emphasize here is that animals can make such categorial
distinctions, too, and do so by using component features of the cate-
gories. An animal that can distinguish a mouse from a leaf has categories
of mouse and leaf21
and also has some category of biological motion
which we can label mousy-motion, and it uses the category mousy-
motion in its attribution of the category mouse to some perceived
object. It is all done, in non-humans, without the help of language. And
in fact for humans, much of this work is also done without the help of
language. Many of the features involved in recognizing diﬀerent classes
of objects have no convenient linguistic labels, although we can concoct
clumsy multi-word expressions which roughly capture the features we use.
Jackendoﬀ (2002, p. 350) makes this point, too, using as an example
actions described by the English verbs walk, jog, limp, strut, and shuﬄe. It
would be artiﬁcial in the extreme to try to invent distinct ‘semantic primi-
tive’ verbal labels for what distinguishes these actions from each other. As
Jackendoﬀ says, ‘we can distinguish [the meanings of] these words by their
appearance (and how they feel in the body)’. This is achieved in us by a
somewhat modality-independent system which
can be thought of as the ‘upper end’ of the visual system [and] it also receives
and integrates inputs about shape and spatial layout from the haptic system
(sense of touch), auditory localization, and the somatosensory system (felt
position of one’s own body). This integration is what enables you to know by
looking at an object where to reach for it, and what it should feel like when
you handle it. (Jackendoﬀ 2002, p. 346)
All such machinery can safely be taken to exist, in some form or other, in
animals closely related to us. Animals just have not taken the human step
of applying linguistic labels to some combinations of features regularly
delivered by their senses.
The appeal to a language-independent system for storing usable reg-
ularities in the environment is not mere hand-waving. Details of such a
system have been spelled out in neurological terms by Damasio (1989)
in his ‘Convergence Zone’ (CZ) approach to storage and retrieval of
concept-like entities in the brain. Kemmerer (2006) provides a very clear
example, which is worth quoting at length:
It [CZ] assumes that the various instances of a conceptual category are rep-
resented as ﬂuctuating patterns of activation across modality-speciﬁc feature
maps in primary and early sensory and motor cortices. ...
21
Not necessarily exactly the same as the similar human categories, of course.
Animals Approach Human Cognition 55
Thus, to return to the example of watching a dog run across a ﬁeld, the
following stages of processing can be distinguished: ﬁrst, activation patterns
across visual feature maps are detected by modality-speciﬁc CZs that store
purely visual knowledge about dogs; these modality-speciﬁc CZs then feed
forward to a cross-modal CZ for the more general concept of a dog; next,
the cross-modal CZ triggers the engagement of related modality-speciﬁc
CZs in other knowledge domains; ﬁnally, the various modality-speciﬁc CZs
may, depending on the task, generate explicit representations across the
appropriate feature maps—e.g., auditory images of what dogs typically sound
like, motor images of how one typically interacts with them (like reaching
out and petting them), somatosensory images of how their fur feels, and so
on. The evocation, whether conscious or unconscious, of some part of the
large number of such neuronal patterns, over a brief lapse of time, constitutes
activation of the conceptual knowledge pertaining to the category of entities
at hand, namely dogs. (Kemmerer 2006, pp. 356–357)
Bickerton (1995) also mentions Damasio’s convergence zones, in partic-
ular cross-modal ones. He discusses the idea of a mental ‘holistic cat’,
unifying all the auditory, visual, olfactory, and tactile properties of cats
into a single concept. Bickerton suggests, however, that it is only with the
advent of linguistic labels that such cross-modal ‘holistic’ concepts get
built: ‘there are at least a few reasons for thinking that the only holistic cat
is the linguistic cat—or in other words that it takes some kind of arbitrary
symbol to tie together all the representations of all the attributes that
make up our idea of “cat” ’ (p. 24). Bickerton is correct that the advent
of public linguistic labels inﬂuences private representations; but uniﬁed
cross-modal concepts do exist before language, in animals and in babies.
What Kemmerer is describing in the quotation above is what happens
when we perceive a dog running across a ﬁeld as a dog running across
a ﬁeld. This is the case where a perceptual experience is ﬁtted to stored
mental categories. But how do such mental categories get formed and
stored in the ﬁrst place? Barsalou (1999), in harmony with much other
modern research, has put forward a theory of perceptual symbols by which
the structure of stored conceptual representations derives from perceptual
experience:
During perceptual experience, association areas in the brain capture bottom-
up patterns of activation in sensory-motor areas. Later, in a top-down man-
ner, association areas partially reactivate sensory-motor areas to implement
perceptual symbols. The storage and reactivation of perceptual symbols
operates at the level of perceptual components—not at the level of holistic
perceptual experiences. Through the use of selective attention, schematic
56 The Origins of Meaning
representations of perceptual components are extracted from experience and
stored in memory (e.g., individual memories of green, purr, hot). As memories
of the same component become organized around a common frame, they
implement a simulator that produces limitless simulations of the component
(e.g., simulations of purr). Not only do such simulators develop for aspects of
sensory experience, they also develop for aspects of proprioception (e.g., lift,
run) and for introspection (e.g., compare, memory, happy, hungry).
(Barsalou 1999, p. 577)
The idea behind Barsalou’s ‘simulators’ and ‘simulations’ here is that the
brain, having learned from perceptual and/or proprioceptive experiences,
is able to recreate or rehearse versions of those experiences in the absence
of the original perceptual or proprioceptive stimulus. In emphasizing the
perceptual basis of conceptual systems, Barsalou does not dissolve the
distinction between perception and cognition. Perceptual symbols are
the permanent cognitive traces (in the form of activation potentials) of
ﬂeeting perceptual experiences.
Barsalou emphasizes the continuity between non-human and human
conceptual representational systems, implicitly granting (and I agree) that
non-human animals have conceptual systems. It is known that many
animals have attention and both working and long-term memory, and it
seems likely that they can apply these to the formation of Barsalovian
perceptual symbols to ‘produce useful inferences about what is likely to
occur at a given place and time, and about what actions will be eﬀective’
(Barsalou 1999, pp. 606–607).
Barsalou’s account posits a stored connection, based on perception
and subsequent abstraction, between the non-linguistic concepts purr
and cat, and between green and leaf. This application, usually below
any level of awareness, of the features that contribute to recognition
of diﬀerent categories of object is semantic, and stored in what many
psychologists call ‘semantic memory’. Tyler et al. (2000, p. 198) con-
verge on the same idea as Barsalou: ‘concepts are represented as patterns
of activation distributed over multiple units corresponding to diﬀerent
semantic properties or “micro-features”.’ Gallese (2003a) also argues, on
the basis of a non-human primate brain’s interaction with the world, that
conceptual knowledge can be attributed to non-linguistic animal species,
and he labels this as ‘semantic content’. This common use of the term
semantic by non-linguists is not necessarily about the meanings of words,
although it can be.22
‘[T]he normal process of retrieving words that denote
22
See also Hodges and Patterson (1999) for a survey of ‘semantic memory disorders’,
which are deﬁcits in factual memory, rather than speciﬁcally linguistic deﬁcits.
Animals Approach Human Cognition 57
concrete entities depends in part on multiple regions of the left cerebral
hemisphere, located outside the classic language areas’ (Damasio et al.
1996, p. 499, emphasis added). For humans, then, retrieving the meaning
of a word involves going outside the classic language areas. The areas
involved are those shared with non-human primates, for coding concep-
tual information about their environment. Meanings existed in our pre-
linguistic ancestors before the application of linguistic labels to them by
humans.
Much more is known about how brains implement perception than about
how they implement cognition. If perception underlies cognition, then what
we know about perception can be used to understand cognition. Neural
accounts of color, form, location, and movement in perception should provide
insights into the neural mechanisms that represent this information concep-
tually. Much research has established that mental imagery produces neural
activity in sensory-motor systems, suggesting that common neural mecha-
nisms underlie imagery and perception. (Barsalou 1999, p. 607)
Production is much harder to investigate experimentally than percep-
tion. The processes that lead human minds to conjure up memories are
not so easy to control as the stimuli presented in perception experiments.
A common technique is to ask subjects to imagine some experience and
compare the resulting brain activity with what happens during the real
experience. This has been done in both visual and auditory modalities.
In the visual modality, Kosslyn et al. (1995) PET-scanned the brains of
subjects while they closed their eyes and imagined objects. They report:
‘the primary visual cortex is activated when subjects close their eyes and
visualize objects. ...These ﬁndings ...indicate that visual mental imagery
involves “depictive” representations, not solely language-like descriptions’
(p. 496). The activity in the primary visual cortex was topographically
related to the image that a real object would have projected onto the retina.
In the auditory modality, also using a PET-scanning method, Zatorre
et al. (1996) got subjects to judge the change in pitch between two words
in a song they were listening to. They also asked the subjects to judge
the change in pitch between these same two words when they were not
listening to the song, though presumably rehearsing the tune in their
mind.
In the imagery condition, subjects performed precisely the same judgment as
in the perceptual condition, but with no auditory input. Thus, to perform the
imagery task correctly an internal auditory representation must be accessed.
Paired-image subtraction of the resulting pattern of CBF [cerebral blood
ﬂow], together with matched MRI for anatomical localization, revealed that
58 The Origins of Meaning
both perceptual and imagery tasks produced similar patterns of CBF changes,
as compared to the control condition, in keeping with the hypothesis. More
speciﬁcally, both perceiving and imagining songs are associated with bilateral
neuronal activity in the secondary auditory cortices.
(Zatorre et al. 1996, p. 29)
Of course, perceiving and imagining are diﬀerent.
Because perception, imagery, and cognition are not identical behaviorally,
their neuroanatomical bases should not be identical. Theorists have noted
neuroanatomical diﬀerences between perception and imagery (e.g. Farah
1988; Kosslyn 1994), and diﬀerences also certainly exist between perception
and cognition. The argument is not that perception and cognition are identi-
cal. It is only that they share representational mechanisms to a considerable
extent. (Barsalou 1999, p. 607)
The obvious lack of a complete overlap between perception and cognition
is neatly set out by Hummel (1999, p. 85): ‘We may remember where we
parked our car last Tuesday, but it is unlikely that the neurons representing
our car have been ﬁring in synchrony with those representing our parking
space continuously since then.’ Goldenberg (1998) also speciﬁcally dis-
cusses the overlaps and diﬀerences between visual recognition and visual
imagery.
One clear diﬀerence between actually perceiving a visual scene and
summoning it to mind without perception is that the motor mechanisms
for visual tracking of the objects involved in the imagined scene may inter-
fere with the ongoing activity of tracking real visual input simultaneously.
This is why it was important for Kosslyn et al. (1995) to get their subjects
to close their eyes while imagining objects. Elsewhere, I have oﬀered the
following analogy:
Consider a robot programmed to roam the world, taking and storing digital
photographs of kinds of things that its programmers have determined. Such
a machine would have mechanisms for directing its lens, zooming, focussing,
and adjusting exposure for light conditions. Having directed, focussed, and
adjusted exposure, then ‘Click!’—the photo is taken, and downloaded (say
as a JPEG or GIF) to its memory. If the machine is also programmed to
search its data-bank of photos and to provide descriptive summaries of what
they contain, there is no reason to suppose that the lens-directing, zooming,
focussing and exposure-adjusting mechanisms will be involved in this latter
task. No analogy is perfect ... (Hurford 2003b, p. 304)
The key point to take away is that the semantic content represented in
the brain when it entertains non-present situations and events is strongly
Animals Approach Human Cognition 59
rooted in perception, and involves sensory and motor brain activity com-
mon to real-world engagement with actual situations and events. That
is, ‘detached representations’ (so long as language is not yet involved)
are not symbolic in the sense of the hoary old debate between ‘Logi-
cal versus Analogical or Symbolic versus Connectionist or Neat versus
Scruﬀy’ (Minsky 1991).23
In Chapter 5, I will be using symbols quite
freely, as schematic representations of animal brain activity, but bear in
mind that it is we investigators who interpret the symbols; they are our
handy shorthand notation for hypothesized brain activity.
The term ‘semantic memory’ is usually applied to a subtype of so-called
‘declarative memory’, which contrasts with ‘procedural memory’. Proce-
dural memory is associated with ‘knowing how’, as opposed to ‘knowing
that’ (Ryle 1949). Stanley and Williamson (2001) have argued on philo-
sophical grounds that there is no fundamental distinction between ‘know-
ing how’ and ‘knowing that’. Interpreting their argument psychologically,
this would entail no fundamental distinction between procedural memory
and semantic memory. In linguistics, a parallel to the semantic/procedural
distinction is the distinction between competence and performance. Adult
native speakers are said to have ‘tacit knowledge’ of the lexicons and rules
of their language; this is their competence, usually envisaged by linguists
as a kind of declarative knowledge of the facts of the language system.
Contrasting with this competence is speakers’ performance: their actual
behaviour on speciﬁc occasions, including all the mental computations
that lead them to make particular utterances. A speaker’s performance
is based on, but not identical to, his competence. The speaker mentally
follows the permanent declaratively known rules, assembling the words
in their right order, with any required aﬃxes and phrase boundaries,
ﬁnally setting the motor articulatory phonetic processes in action, in
real time, as suits the occasion. A knowledge of how to perform these
last operations is procedural, not declarative. Performance includes the
receptive, as well as the productive side of language use, so the picture
is of a listener parsing the sequence of input sounds by somehow con-
sulting his tacit knowledge of the language, his competence. This is how
linguists typically see the relation between the grammar of a language
and the behaviour of its speakers; see Jackendoﬀ (2002, pp. 29–34) for
a nice summary. The competence/performance distinction has been a
cornerstone of mainstream linguistic research for at least half a century.
23
Barsalou (1999) chooses to make the same distinction using the terms ‘perceptual
symbols’ versus ‘amodal symbols’. So long as we always remember who uses what termi-
nology, no confusion should arise.
60 The Origins of Meaning
Here is not the place to discuss this distinction in detail, but I will point
out that there is a growing tendency in psychology to talk in terms of
complex interactions between declarative and procedural knowledge, to
the point where originally declarative knowledge becomes ‘hardwired’ or
automatized procedural knowledge. A case in point is the ‘motor learning’
by an animal of the topology of its home range. Knowledge of how the
barriers, obstacles and tracks are related to each other gets built into rapid
routine behaviour patterns that no longer involve consulting the original
declarative knowledge of the territory; Stamps (1995) is one study of such
phenomena.
In the next section, I will press the case for the involvement of motor
(procedural) information, as well as perceptually based semantic informa-
tion, in the representation of concepts. Perceptuo-motor (i.e. procedural-
semantic) memory is, however, still to be distinguished from another type
of memory, usually also classed as ‘declarative’, namely episodic memory,
to be discussed in the next chapter.
2.7 sensory-motor declarative-imperative
co-involvement in concepts
In several places above, I have mentioned that conceptual representations
in animals may involve both sensory and motor information. There are
(at least) two diﬀerent ways in which this can be envisaged, one more
primitive than the other, but both ways are probably still in evidence in
animal and human behaviour. The more primitive kind of motor-sensory
co-involvement is discussed by Millikan (1996, 2004) and Harms (2004);
Millikan adopts the whimsical term ‘pushmi-pullyu’24
for her kind of rep-
resentation involving both sensory and motor information. The second,
more advanced, kind of motor-sensory co-involvement is suggested by the
discovery of mirror neurons (Gallese et al. 1996; Rizzolatti et al. 1996). I
will brieﬂy discuss both types below.
The basic idea of pushmi-pullyu representations (PPRs) is expressed
thus: ‘Mental representations, then, can be used either to reﬂect states of
aﬀairs or to produce them’ (Millikan 2004, p. 17). ‘These representations
tell in one undiﬀerentiated breath both what the case is and what to do
about it’ (Millikan 2004, p. 20) PPRs have two kinds of content, which
Millikan calls ‘indicative’ and ‘imperative’.
24
The pushmi-pullyu is a rare kind of African antelope, with a head at each end of its
body, from Hugh Lofting’s children’s books about the adventures of Doctor Dolittle.
Animals Approach Human Cognition 61
Consider any behavior triggered by an environmental releaser—for example,
the feeding behavior of the songbird triggered by the sight of the red inside of
the open beak of its young. This behavior is mediated by a mental PPR whose
indicative content is that a hungry baby of mine is right here and at this time
needy and ready to receive food, and whose imperative content is the directive
at this time drop food into this baby’s mouth—or something of that sort. But
none of that complicated content is articulated, of course. ...Indeed, the bird
may have, as we might say, ‘no idea’ what it is doing, as we would conceive
what it is doing. (Millikan 2004, p. 20)
PPRs, then, are as basic and simple as reﬂexes, but it interesting that
Millikan, a philosopher, grants them the status of ‘representations’.
Harms (2004) expresses very similar views. As an example, he proposes
that the best, if still imperfect, translation of the vervet alarm call for a
leopard is the conjunction of both There is a leopard nearby (the declara-
tive or indicative aspect) and Run up a tree (the procedural or imperative
aspect). He calls this kind of mental conjunction ‘primitive content’. This
suggests a degree of integration, if not a complete conﬂation, of diﬀerent
types of memory hitherto labelled as ‘semantic’ and ‘procedural’.
The discovery of mirror neurons, which ﬁre both when an animal is
observing an action, and when it is carrying out that same action itself,
also suggests that an animal’s conceptual representation of an action is
coded in both sensory and motor terms. But this kind of sensory-motor
co-involvement is signiﬁcantly diﬀerent. A macaque’s concept of grasping
is represented in terms of what grasping (by another) looks like, and of the
motor activity that initiates grasping (by oneself). The same argument can
be applied to a number of other common activities engaged in by animals,
such as running, standing, sitting, licking the lips, defecating, and so forth.
This has very signiﬁcant implications for the evolution of language. It
suggests that an animal such as a macaque conceptualizes its own actions
and those of other animals in closely related ways. Seeing a conspeciﬁc
grasping a nut, for example, can cause the brain of the observing animal
to be in some kind of partly similar state to that of the observed animal.
This is the beginnings of the kind of empathy required in communication
at the level of human language. One of the discoverers of mirror neurons,
Vittorio Gallese, has articulated this connection between mirror neurons
and empathy (Gallese 2003b, 2003c, 2004). Compare Millikan’s scenario
of the bird feeding its young with a human mother spoon-feeding her
baby. A human mother often involuntarily opens her mouth on seeing
the baby open its mouth and may swallow when the baby swallows. The
bird’s kneejerk reaction (do birds have knees?) is functionally adaptive,
62 The Origins of Meaning
but it is not empathetic with the baby’s situation, as the human mother’s
mimicking reaction is.
In evolution, old mechanisms are typically not completely replaced
by newer mechanisms. Often old and new mechanisms continue to co-
exist. It seems likely that actions are sorted into those for which a mirror
imitative response is appropriate (such as humans tending to laugh when
others laugh) and those for which a more primitive pushmi-pullyu-like
correlation obtains (such as ducking when someone throws a punch at
you).
A non-mirror co-involvement of sensory and motor information occurs
in the mental representations of objects. This was already implied above,
in the quotation from Kemmerer, where it was suggested that part of
the (human) concept of a dog involves the characteristic actions towards
dogs, such as stroking them. The idea can be extended to inanimate
objects, especially tools. Martin et al. (1996) found that ‘naming tools
selectively activated a left premotor area also activated by imagined hand
movements’. Similarly, Mecklinger et al. (2002) report: ‘When contrasted
directly, manipulable relative to non-manipulable objects activated the left
ventral premotor cortex and the anterior intraparietal sulcus, a circuitry
that is assumed to mediate the transformation of movement-relevant
object properties into hand actions. These results indicate that visual
working memory for manipulable objects is based on motor programmes
associated with their use’ (p. 1115). Of course, nothing in the brain is
simple, and Grossman et al. (2002) point to complications in the overall
picture, as well as a host of other relevant literature.25
The mirror neuron phenomena and the combined sensory-motor rep-
resentations of tools highlight an important feature of behaviour which
is especially prominent in humans, namely inhibition. The brain of a
monkey who observes grasping begins to go through the same ﬁrings as
are involved in actual grasping, but the animal doesn’t ‘follow through’
and actually carry out a real grasping action itself. The mirror neurons are
in pre-motor cortex, with the suﬃx pre- serendipitously expressing both
brain location anterior to primary motor cortex and temporally previous
25
Some of these last ideas are reminiscent of Gibson’s aﬀordances. Gibson (1979)
writes that apples aﬀord eating and mailboxes aﬀord letter posting. These aﬀordances of
objects depend crucially on perception–action coupling. In philosophy, a school of thought
known as ‘Enactive Perception’ also emphasizes the involvement of action in perception;
see Noë (2004) for arguments in favour, and Prinz (2006) and Edelman (2006) for some
not wholly positive commentary. A more detailed, explicitly sensory-motor theory of the
brain’s representation of concepts has now been proposed by Gallese and Lakoﬀ (2005),
and my view is entirely consistent with theirs.
Animals Approach Human Cognition 63
involvement in initiating voluntary action. When a human contemplates
a tool, such as a screwdriver, the declarative knowledge partly expressed
by That is a screwdriver; it is a tool is invoked,26
and the pre-motor areas
involved in its actual use are also activated; but the ﬁnal carrying out of
an appropriate action, for example, right-hand-twisting, is (usually) inhib-
ited. In Millikan’s pushmi-pullyu terms, both indicative and imperative
types of content are involved.
Now, I prefer declarative to Millikan’s indicative, for reasons of consis-
tency with the terminology of ‘declarative memory’, and to highlight the
linguistic relevance of this conﬂation of two types of content. In linguistics,
declarative, imperative, and interrogative denote the commonest sentence-
types found in the world’s languages, and they are deﬁned in terms of
their typical communicative function between people (making statements,
issuing commands, and asking questions). But note the naturalness of
using, as Millikan and Harms do, declarative and imperative when there
is absolutely no question of any communication between people. Their
discussion is only about internal representations in a single brain. The
declarative (semantic) content of a concept, such as the vervet’s concept
eagle, includes the features that trigger (passive) recognition of eagles,
such as its shape, position in the sky, and manner of movement; the imper-
ative (procedural) content of that concept tells the vervet what to do when
it knows there is an eagle around (dive under the bushes!). The imperative
content of a primitive conceptual representation doesn’t communicate a
command to anyone else, but it does communicate a command to the
animal itself. Thus a distinction normally held to be pragmatic, about
communication between people, has a precursor in solipsistic conceptu-
alization. What happens later in language evolution, when public signals
get conventionally associated with concepts, is that it becomes possible
for one animal to stimulate the imperative content of a concept in the
mind of another animal. In fact, for a small number of alarm calls, natural
selection has already accomplished this trick for the vervets. If there had
been no imperative content to the vervet proto-concept eagle before the
alarm calls evolved—that is, if vervets had not had a combined shape-
in-sky/dive-under-bushes serial pattern of brain ﬁring—the alarm
calls could not have evolved.27
A similar story can be told in relation to the empathic involvement of
pre-motor cortex in proto-concepts of actions such as grasping, running,
26
Of course, I am not suggesting that these actual words come to mind, just their non-
verbal meanings.
27
And of course, many more vervets would have been caught by eagles.
64 The Origins of Meaning
laughing, and yawning. If a public signal becomes associated with the
concept grasp, it is more natural to imagine a basic imperative use for
such a signal than a declarative use, although both are conceivable. The
signal could be used for the purpose of evoking the declarative content
of the concept, to express something like There’s grasping going on or
Someone is grasping something. In this case the communicative event has
what Searle (1975) calls a ‘words-to-world’ direction of ﬁt: the speaker
utters words chosen to ﬁt the observed state of the world. But equally,
and probably more commonly in the ﬁrst uses of public signals, the signal
associated with the grasp concept could stimulate in the receiver its
motor/imperative content, leading the receiver to carry out the action, i.e.
to grasp something. In this case the communicative event has what Searle
calls a ‘world-to-words’ direction of ﬁt: the speaker wants the world to
change so that there is grasping going on. (The crucial pragmatic question
of why a receiver of such a signal would be disposed to cooperate with
the signaller by bringing about the desired world-to-words match will be
discussed in Chapters 8 and 9.)
In sum, the distinction in public communication between declarative
and imperative acts, and the sentence-types conventionally associated
with them in the languages of the world, has, I claim, ancient roots in
the co-involvement (in varying proportions) of sensory and motor com-
ponents in primitive proto-concepts.
C H A P T E R T H R E E
A New Kind of Memory
Evolves
We have seen how the capacities of some animals have begun to expand
out of the narrowly constraining territory of automatic behaviours, into
areas of new mental representations acquired by learning and general-
ization, sometimes to rather abstract concepts. And we also saw animals
beginning to get metacognitive glimpses into their own mental states and
to be able to act in response to them. Before language, some higher
animals had become able to represent aspects of their world in terms of
such concepts as we can anthropocentrically1
label same, different,
and opposite. Learning gives rise to new enduring mental states. The
animal that has learned a new behaviour has laid down in its brain some
new lasting linkages between classes of experience. And an animal that
has learned, say, to distinguish diﬀerent categories of prey by combi-
nations of their perceptual features, such as speciﬁc types of biological
motion, colour, size, and texture, has laid down enduring linkages between
the prey-categories and the features. Such linkages constitute semantic
memory. The animal may or may not have metacognitive access to these
connections. And the animal may retain no speciﬁc memory of the indi-
vidual experiences (training episodes in the lab, formative experiences in
the wild) that caused its brain to be rewired. The value of generalizing
is in data-compression. You don’t need to burden your memory with all
those formative experiences if you can distil what is important in them
into an economical set of principles automatically guiding your future
behaviour.2
Also, having a store of concepts detached from the speciﬁc
1
As human investigators, what else can we do but take an anthropocentric point of
view? We only claim that the animal pre-linguistic concepts are similar, not identical, to
human concepts.
2
For instance, it seems certain that the gosling who is imprinted with the nearest large
moving object in the ﬁrst few days of its life does not remember the speciﬁc event of seeing
66 The Origins of Meaning
episodes that formed them gives them a ‘timeless’ quality that turns out
to be an indispensable foundation for thinking (or later talking) about
things happening other than now.
Classic amnesics, people with memory loss, typically cannot remem-
ber who they are, what their name is, where they live, or where they
were at previous times in their lives. And yet they typically maintain full
competence in their native language and skills such as playing a musical
instrument. They can tell a scurrying mouse from a wind-blown leaf by
the characteristic motion, but they can’t remember the mouse getting into
the cellar last winter. They often can’t remember who their parents were,
but they know what the words mother and father mean and how they are
related to parent. The brain treats two diﬀerent kinds of enduring rep-
resentations quite diﬀerently. Amnesics have not lost semantic memory,
the kind resulting from a distillation of past experiences and laid down as
generalized principles guiding behaviour. But they have lost all memory
of individual experiences, tagged with some representation of where and
when they happened. The kind of memory lost by amnesics is called
‘episodic’ memory. Semantic memory is the kind in which generalized
principles are stored, formed by previous experience but with no rep-
resentation of the individual formative experiences themselves. Episodic
memory is what stores traces of individual experiences, like the face of the
person opposite you on the train last night, or the empty taxi that went
past you in the rain.3
Tulving (2005) gives a thorough, recent survey of the theoretical issues
and some empirical data on episodic memory. An amnesic patient, K.C.,
is a striking case, allowing us to see rather clearly the diﬀerence between
episodic and other kinds of memory. K.C. can name his parents and
his birthplace, along with various other learnt facts about his life and
the world in general. But he cannot remember anything that happens to
him more than a few minutes before. It is not a memory for facts that
is impaired. K.C. has a speciﬁc inability to store his own experiences as
recallable facts.
It is usually held that episodic memory came late in evolution. Tulving
(1999, p. 278), one of the pioneers in this area, writes, ‘Episodic memory
that object at that time; it just lays down an automatic behaviour of following such a thing
(Lorenz 1937).
3
Horner (1990) casts doubt on the validity of the distinction between semantic and
episodic memory, but this remains, to my knowledge, a minority view. There is a (mercifully
shallow) terminological quagmire surrounding the diﬀerent classiﬁcations of memory. My
own choice of terminology doesn’t make any loaded or controversial assumptions.
A New Kind of Memory Evolves 67
is a recently evolved, late developing, past-oriented memory system, prob-
ably unique to humans.’
There must be some question as to why it might be adaptive to travel mentally
into the past when phylogenetically older forms of memory already allow for
learning from a single event. Part of the answer may lie in the nature of the
information extracted. Sherry and Schacter (1987) argue that the older form
of memory (procedural) is essentially concerned with extracting invariances
from stimulus events, as in pattern recognition, whereas the newer form is
concerned with preserving the individuality of events. Since these characteris-
tics are mutually incompatible, the later form of memory evolved as a separate
system. (Suddendorf and Corballis 1997, p. 153)
Suddendorf and Corballis (1997, pp. 153–154) advocate a kind of cyclical
co-evolution of procedural and declarative memory: ‘since other species
seem to be capable of at least a primitive form of semantic memory, we
agree with Tulving (1983, 1984, 1985) that episodic memory emerged later,
but then allowed the semantic memory system to develop more fully.’ We
will see that this kind of co-evolution is very pertinent to the evolution of
meaning.
Klein et al. (2002) also discuss the evolution of various types of mem-
ory, along with references to several surveys of the area. They support
the typical independence of episodic and semantic memory, but point
to atypical tasks for which ‘absolute statements about the independence
between the episodic and semantic stores may not be possible: One ﬁnds
independence in some domains but not in others’ (p. 322). They stress the
necessary interdependence of both summary generalizing information, as
held in semantic memory, and speciﬁc information, as held in episodic
memory.
Full episodic memory involves being able to retrieve, for several remem-
bered and related events, the order in which they occurred. Humans
can do this to a limited extent. You can somewhat accurately retrace all
the main things you did last last Saturday, in order. This is helped by
the existence in human aﬀairs of a routine structure to the day, held in
semantic memory. But often we cannot remember whether we did one
thing before, or after, another thing. Time is a more abstract dimension
than space, and much of our command of temporal ordering of distant
events is aided by a metaphorical extension of the spatial dimension. (See
Boroditsky 2000.) It would be very surprising to ﬁnd any capacity for
this kind of full episodic memory in animals, and a lively literature exists
debating the extent to which animals have episodic memory; I will review
68 The Origins of Meaning
key studies from this literature in this chapter. One fascinating question is
how humans managed to transfer a grasp of space to a grasp of time, and
how this process related to the emergence of language.
There is a clear connection between episodic memory and ability to
bring memories back to conscious awareness. Even amnesic patients, who
cannot explicitly recall events that have happened to them, show signs of
having registered some unconscious take-home message from the expe-
rience. In the late nineteenth century, the Russian neurologist Korsakoﬀ
noted that a patient who could not explicitly recall being in a situation
where he was given an electric shock nevertheless showed an aversion to
the room in which it had happened and to the neurologist who had admin-
istered the shock. (See Victor and Yakovlev 1955; Schacter 1987.) Such
examples do not invalidate the notion of episodic memory. Korsakoﬀ’s
patient presumably formed a connection in his semantic memory between
the room, the doctor, and an unpleasant experience, but kept no episodic
memory of the speciﬁc experience that gave rise to this connection being
formed.
There is also a connection between episodic memory and some sense
of the self. My episodic memories are memories of what I experienced—I
was there. It is an open question how much the involvement of the ego
is retained in, or central to, the content of episodic memories. Great care
must be taken to clarify the notion of ‘self’ or ego involved in episodic
memory. Compare the meanings of the two sentences X happened and I
saw X happen. A person who saw X happen probably knows thereafter
that X happened, and a normal adult also knows that he or she saw that
X happened. But the two items of knowledge are deﬁnitely separable. The
question arises what exact entity is referred to by the I in the second
sentence. If a person entertains the (true) thought expressed by I saw X
happen, it may seem obvious that the I in question refers to the thinker
herself. But one diﬀerence is also obvious: the times of the seeing and the
subsequent thinking are diﬀerent. Some past events can be ascertained
by their consequences in the present. Thus if X = Henry died, we can
check the truth of proposition X by seeing whether Henry is dead. But
the truth of I saw X, whatever X is, can only be ascertained by what
has been called ‘mental time travel’ on the part of the person referred
to by I. Somehow, the knowing subject has to relive the experience—
not completely, because that is physically impossible, but the experience
has to be rehearsed in the mind in enough detail for it to be clearly
distinguished from other experiences. Normal adult humans are familiar
with this reliving of experiences, but it is intensely subjective, so how
A New Kind of Memory Evolves 69
can we know whether other beings do it, especially if they can’t talk?
It is also clear that the entities encountered in this subjective reliving of
experience are not directly observable entities in the world in the same way
as the original entities causing the experience. Further, during the actual
experience, at the time it happened, no ‘I’ was part of the event objectively
experienced. Simply being able to relive an experience does not entail an
objective view of the reliving self on a par with more objectively available
entities, such as the Henry who died in our hypothetical event X. For such
reasons, I remain cautious about a necessary connection between episodic
memory and reﬂective self-awareness or ‘autonoesis’.
Linked to the ideas of self and consciousness, there may be a close
connection between language and episodic memory. Most people’s ‘ﬁrst
memories’ of the earliest experiences in their lives are of events happening
after about two years of age, after the ﬁrst onset of connected language.
There is now a body of evidence indicating that episodic memory matures
in children around the age of four years. Gopnik and Graf (1988), for
example, showed some children objects being put into a drawer and, for
comparison, just told other children the contents of the drawer. Then they
asked the children, aged 3, 4, and 5 years, (1) what was in the drawer,
and (2) how they knew. All the children managed reasonably well on
the ﬁrst question, so across all the ages tested, memory for facts about
the world was good. On the second question, children at age 5 managed
to report well how they knew what was in the drawer, while children at
age 3 performed barely better than chance. The younger children could
not recall what speciﬁc experience had given them their good knowledge
of what was in the drawer.
Episodic memory seems to come onstream after the beginnings of
language in normal children. But it also seems that having language is not
a prerequisite for the laying down of episodic memories. The memories are
not laid down in language. Merlin Donald makes this point by referring
to Helen Keller:
Language was completely absent from her life. There was no story-telling, no
questioning, no wordplay, no stream of word thoughts. However, this did not
prevent her as an adult from remembering a fair amount from this period.
Her later recall of events that occurred during her early life was sometimes
quite vivid, and she recounted many memories that must have been formed
without any mediation by language. (Donald 2001, p. 240)
With the appearance of episodic memory, the ancestors of humans
acquired another route by which representations of non-present events
70 The Origins of Meaning
and situations could be brought to mind. For modern humans these rep-
resentations are stored either as a result of a prior perceptual experience or
by dint of believing someone else’s report of such an event or situation. We
might (anticipating somewhat) call these diﬀerent sources of knowledge
de facto and de dicto. At this stage, we are only considering representations
of the world in the minds of non-linguistic creatures. So I will focus here
on de facto knowledge and how it might be represented in the brain.
De facto knowledge is knowledge transferred from momentary perception
of a particular event or situation, by mechanisms of episodic memory,
to a permanent store. This process has been expressed by Peter Gärden-
fors as the move from cued representations to detached representations
(Gärdenfors 1996, 2004).
A cued representation stands for something that is present in the current
external situation of the representing organism. When, for example, a par-
ticular object is categorized as food, the animal will then act diﬀerently than
if the same object had been categorized as a potential mate. ...In contrast,
detached representations may stand for objects or events that are neither
present in the current situation nor triggered by some recent situation. A
memory of something that can be evoked independently of the context where
the memory was created would be an example of a detached representation.
(Gärdenfors 2004, p. 238)
Bickerton (1995)’s parallel and closely corresponding terms are online
thinking (= cued) and oﬄine thinking (= detached). Just as Tulving main-
tains that probably only humans have episodic memory, Bickerton (1995,
p. 59) claims that only humans are capable of oﬄine thinking. I will argue
that small beginnings of such detached/oﬄine representation can be found
in some animals. The later advent of human language no doubt gave a
massive boost to such capacities, but it cannot be claimed that language
fundamentally enabled detached/oﬄine representation. The mechanisms
by which cued representations get stored, in some stripped-down and
abstracted form, in long-term memory, both semantic and episodic, are
not well understood. Animal research is unlikely to help us much here,
because animals’ long-term representations don’t approach humans’ in
terms of depth of abstraction, and animals, unlike humans, have little
or no episodic memory. For humans, we know that the hippocampus is
involved (see e.g. Shastri 2001, 2002; Burgess 2002; Eichenbaum 2002). We
simply have to acknowledge, at this stage in science, that this process does
happen in humans, and that just how it happens remains largely unknown.
For some preliminary results, see Nyberg et al. (2000).
A New Kind of Memory Evolves 71
In what follows I will mention some recent evidence showing that
something like episodic memory, though undoubtedly recently evolved,
is not unique to humans, and then explain what this has to do with the
evolution of linguistic semantics.
3.1 episodic memory in animals: knowledge of
past and future
We have all seen squirrels burying nuts, and have probably wondered
whether they actually remember where they have buried them. It seems
unlikely that evolution would have selected a behaviour so costly in energy
without some payoﬀ. Empirical work on another food-storing species,
American scrub jays (Clayton and Dickinson 1998), has shown, not only
that the birds can remember where they stored food, but also what kind
of food was stored in which location. This is because jays store two kinds
of food, one more perishable than the other, and after a certain lapse of
time, they do not bother recovering the more perishable food from caches,
but only go back to the stores of less perishable food. This study was
conducted under controlled experimental conditions, and so escapes the
anecdotal character of many observations in the wild.
On the basis of a single caching episode, scrub jays can remember when
and where they cached a variety of foods that diﬀer in the rate at which
they degrade, in a way that is inexplicable by relative familiarity. They can
update their memory of the contents of a cache depending on whether or not
they have emptied the cache site, and can also remember where another bird
has hidden caches, suggesting that they encode rich representations of the
caching event. They make temporal generalizations about when perishable
items should degrade and also remember the relative time since caching when
the same food is cached in distinct sites at diﬀerent times. These results
show that jays form integrated memories for the location, content and time
of caching. This memory capability fulﬁls Tulving’s behavioural criteria for
episodic memory and is thus termed ‘episodic-like’.4
We suggest that several
features of episodic memory may not be unique to humans.
(Clayton et al. 2001, p. 1483, see also Griﬃths et al. 1999.)
Millikan (2004) sounds a correct cautionary note on such facts about
food-caching by birds: ‘many species of birds can remember hundreds and
even thousands of caching places in which they have left food for future
4
The term ‘episodic-like’ usually expresses a reservation that the animal need not be
‘aware’, in a fully human sense, of the recalled event, or, even more demandingly, aware
that it is recalling it.
72 The Origins of Meaning
use. It does not follow that they are capable of collecting and remembering
any other kinds of facts. Nor does it follow that they can use knowledge
of these kinds of facts for any purpose other than ﬁnding food when
they are hungry’ (p. 26). True enough, birds’ episodic (or episodic-like)
memory is very domain-limited, compared to ours, but it is a step in the
human direction.5
It only requires generalization to other domains. If a
mechanism is already used for one purpose, it is a lesser evolutionary
step to apply it for some new purpose than it was to invent it in the ﬁrst
place.
Schwartz and Evans (2001) followed Clayton’s criteria and surveyed
eight studies of great apes, concluding: ‘We summarize the evidence that is
compatible with the existence of episodic-like memory, although none of
the data completely satisfy the Clayton et al. criteria. Moreover, feelings
of pastness and feelings of conﬁdence, which mark episodic memory in
humans, have not been empirically addressed in non-human primates’
(p. 71). I take a positive message from this quotation, that great apes have
episodic-like memory, but to counter their last reservation about what has
not been empirically addressed, see above (Chapter 2.2) on uncertainty
monitoring in some animals, and see below on animals distinguishing
between past and future.
Menzel (2005) describes the impressive performance of a chimpanzee,
Panzee, who was shown various food items being hidden outside her
enclosure, and later, sometimes several days later, accurately directed a
person (who did not know where the food was) to the hiding place.
There seems little doubt that Panzee spontaneously recalled the individual
events of food hiding, as and when she felt the need for the hidden items.
She was not prompted to recall them by being shown sets of alternatives,
from which she was supposed to choose. Thus an important criterion,
recall rather than recognition, was met. A sceptic might still reasonably
object that we do not know which of the two following propositions
Panzee stored, on seeing, for instance, a kiwi fruit being hidden under
leaves to the left of the pine tree. Did she just store a static fact,the kiwi
is under leaves to the left of the pine tree, in which case
she is not using episodic memory; or did she store the experience of seeing
someone hiding the kiwi under leaves to the left of the
pine tree in such a way that she could relive the experience as much as
a few days later? The same problem aﬀects other experiments on animal
memory, such as those described in MacDonald (1994) and Gibeault and
5
No teleological claim is intended here, of course.
A New Kind of Memory Evolves 73
MacDonald (2000), in which gorillas were tested on whether they could
remember where food had been hidden. These gorillas could remember
where food had been hidden up to twenty-four hours later.
The question of whether animals are remembering a state of the world
inferred from some observation, or storing an episodic memory of the
actual experience of observation, is not at all easy to answer empirically.
If an event is stored for the purpose of later episodic recall, presumably
only the aspects of the event selectively attended to at the time are stored.
So for instance, Panzee may only have stored the bare bones of this event,
while not attending to inessential factors, such as the expression on the
face of the human hider, or his shirt buttons, or whether he used his right
or left hand. The argument against episodic memory would be that at the
time of the initial observation, Panzee also interpreted the event in a way
that was relevant to her, storing the inference that the kiwi was likely to
remain where she had seen it placed, and not storing a memory of the
event itself. In fact a very large number of inferences can be drawn from
any observed event, and one may ask whether it is economical to do a lot
of instant inferencing and throw away the premiss (a representation of the
event). The alternative would be not to do any on-the-spot inferencing
and to store the raw observed information about the event (ﬁltered by
selective attention), leaving any inferencing for later, whenever it may
be needed. This argument may seem to push towards an attribution of
episodic memory to Panzee, but we should also remember that the number
of inferences from a food-hiding event that are highly relevant to the life
of a chimpanzee may be very constrained. In Hurley (2006, p. 139)’s terms,
Panzee and the rest of her species may not be ‘inferentially promiscuous’.
Perhaps the likely location of food is the only highly relevant inference
from a chimpanzee’s point of view. Chimpanzees, like scrub jays, are
highly motivated by food.
This suggests that the diﬃcult issue could be resolved by an experiment
of the following kind. (1) Show an animal some event, contriving to make
the event salient in its attention. (2) Later, teach the animal some highly
speciﬁc and artiﬁcial inference involving objects used in such events, asso-
ciated with a reward; the idea would be that the inference is unlikely to
have been made by the animal when observing the event earlier, because it
had no relevance then to the animal’s normal life. (3) Test the animal for
recall of the event. For example, with an animal with no experience of keys
and their function, (1) prominently show it a key being stored somewhere.
(2) Later, train the animal to expect food when this key is used to unlock
a food cupboard; during training the animal should not see the key being
74 The Origins of Meaning
taken from its store—it should just be in the trainer’s hand. Finally (3)
one day the trainer seems to have lost the key, shows the animal his open
hand, and looks puzzled standing by the food cupboard. If the animal
communicates the whereabouts of the key, the argument would be that
it remembered the actual event of the key being stored there at a time
in its life when it had no reason to make any highly relevant inference
about food—it just remembered the event. This, or its formal equivalent,
could be done with a chimpanzee like Panzee, accustomed to interaction
with humans. To avoid accusations of anecdotalism, repeat the experiment
enough times to satisfy some sceptics, although you’ll never satisfy them
all. An experimental procedure somewhat like this has actually been used,
by Zentall et al. (2001), testing whether pigeons had any memory of
whether they had just pecked or not pecked. Their experimental setup was
quite abstract, involving only arbitrary associations on which the pigeons
had to be trained, and furthermore, only tested very short-term memory.
But the pigeons did show that they could, with signiﬁcantly better than
chance frequency, answer the ‘question’ ‘Did you just peck or not?’
Schwartz (2005) reports experiments (Schwartz et al. 2004) with a
captive gorilla, King, who was made to experience unique events, such
as eating a novel food, or seeing a human doing a novel trick, and then
later (but not much later, no more than 15 minutes) was asked to pick
one from three photographs. One photograph depicted some aspect of the
prior event, and the other two photos were distractors. King performed at
better than chance on this. But the intervening period was quite short, so
this is certainly not a test of long-term episodic memory. This experiment
had one advantage over Menzel’s experiments with Panzee however. The
events observed by King had no lasting consequence for the state of the
world about which he was interrogated after the delay. The food had been
eaten, the man skipping had stopped skipping. So King could not have
been storing an inference about the state of the world consequent on the
observed event.
In a further experiment with King the gorilla, Schwartz et al. (2005)
tested whether he could recall the order in which he had, fairly recently,
been given three food items. The three givings of food were spaced approx-
imately ﬁve minutes apart. A necessary feature of the experimental design
shows up a clear diﬀerence between this gorilla and humans:
King was required to ﬁrst respond with a card corresponding to the last food
he was given by the experimenter, then respond with the food he had been
given second in the sequence, and ﬁnally with the food he had been given ﬁrst
A New Kind of Memory Evolves 75
in the sequence. We did it in reverse order because when we initially required
King to do it in forward order, he always responded with the last food item
and grew quite frustrated that he was not getting reinforced for this response.
(Schwartz et al. 2005, p. 235)
Humans can, without frustration, name the actual order in which events
occurred, and are not constrained by this Last-In-First-Out restriction.
But correctly recalling the arbitrary order of novel events, even though
insisting on doing it backwards, does seem to show episodic memory,
rather than inferences about the state of the world stored at the time of
the event(s). And King managed this task with signiﬁcantly greater than
chance success. Again, however, the time period over which he had to
operate was relatively short, under half an hour. Hoﬀman (2004) also
experimented with King, to see if he could remember the location of
a witnessed novel event. He could, but with a performance only barely
statistically signiﬁcant, and he seemed to get bored with the experiment,
as his ﬁrst results were much better than later results.
In all this discussion of episodic memory, we should keep in mind that,
although humans can do it, and apparently far better than animals, we
are still pretty bad at it. Eyewitness testimony to crimes is notoriously
unreliable (Wells and Olson 2003).
An interesting point, put to me by Karola Kreitmair, is whether honey-
bees who signal the location of food (nectar) at a distance from the hive
can be said to have the same kind of episodic memory as is attributed to
scrub jays who remember where they hid food. The bee has an individual
experience of ﬁnding food. It reports the crucial properties of this experi-
ence (distance, direction) to its hivemates. On its ﬂight back to the hive is
the bee not remembering where it discovered the food? Episodic memories
can be long-lasting or short-lived, and perhaps the only diﬀerence is the
length of time for which bees store their memories of food-ﬁnding. They
presumably forget them as soon as they have discharged their signalling
duties. This retention of a memory is in most cases considerably longer
than the ﬁve-to-eight-second limit on working memory discovered in the
honeybee by Zhang et al. (2005). Evolution has converged on versions of
episodic (or episodic-like) memory in anatomically very diﬀerent brains.
Evidence of a completely diﬀerent sort for something like episodic
memory in non-humans comes from neurophysiological studies of rats
dreaming. (No, don’t switch oﬀ—this is fascinating stuﬀ.) Louie and
Wilson (2001) trained rats to run a maze, and implanted tetrodes in
the rats’ brains to record the activity during the running of the maze.
76 The Origins of Meaning
About a dozen brain cells per animal were recorded in this way, and the
researchers stored the complexes of temporal ﬁring patterns reﬂecting the
rats’ experience in running the maze. Then, they also recorded activity
from the same brain areas during the rats’ REM sleep. The signiﬁcant
conclusion, thoroughly screened against the possibility of mere chance
coincidence, is that during REM sleep, the rats’ brains went through many
of the same long sequences of complex ﬁring patterns as while awake and
running the maze. ‘We show that temporally sequenced ensemble ﬁring
rate patterns reﬂecting tens of seconds to minutes of behavioral experience
are reproduced during REM episodes at an equivalent timescale. ...These
results demonstrate that long temporal sequences of patterned multineu-
ronal activity suggestive of episodic memory traces are reactivated during
REM sleep’ (Louie and Wilson 2001, p. 145). Obviously, the question of
awareness doesn’t arise, as this is about sleep. But the research does show
that episodes from the rat’s past experience are re-run in its mind/brain
when the rat is no longer actually experiencing the original episode.
Memory is usually associated with the past, but, as we shall see, there
is some evidence for memory-like mechanisms representing future events.
Recently the pioneer of this ﬁeld, Endel Tulving, rather adventurously but
possibly correctly, identiﬁes episodic memory closely with both past and
future (i.e. planned) events. Thus his proposed experimental test for (all
kinds of) episodic memory in animals involves seeing whether an animal
can plan to bring a tool to a situation in which, by previous experience, it
has been at a disadvantage for lack of the tool (Tulving 2005). Let’s brieﬂy
consider animals’ mental representations of possible future events.
Byrne (1995, pp. 154–158) argues on the basis of anecdotal observa-
tions in the wild that chimpanzees behave as if they anticipate the future,
for example by killing a leopard cub (to prevent it being a danger when
grown up?).6
On their own, anecdotes like this (and there are many of
them) are not as convincing as we would like, because the observed events
may just be coincidences, and there is no control of the circumstances.
Long-distance migration might seem to be a candidate for planning by
animals, but there is no evidence at all that the animals (e.g. swallows,
whales, turtles, geese) know where they are going and ﬁgure out how to
get there.
Nevertheless, it is clear from observation of domestic pets that they can
ﬁnd alternative routes home if the most direct path is blocked, and it seems
6
Gärdenfors (2004, pp. 253–254) is also very doubtful of Byrne’s interpretation of this
episode.
A New Kind of Memory Evolves 77
likely that this is accomplished by means of a mental map of the place and
a representation of the goal. Some kind of representation of where the
animal wants to be in the immediate future seems to be involved. Mulcahy
and Call (2006) report on experiments in which bonobos and orangutans
collected and hoarded appropriate tools for tasks as far ahead as fourteen
hours before the task was carried out. They comment that ‘These ﬁndings
suggest that the precursor skills for planning for the future evolved in great
apes before 14 million years ago, when all extant great ape species shared
a common ancestor’ (p. 1038).
Cook et al. (1983) experimented with rats in a 12-arm radial maze. The
rat is placed in a space from which 12 diﬀerent arms lead to diﬀerent
trays, only one of which is baited with food.7
The rat’s job is to ﬁnd the
food. It does this by exploring the arms of the maze in turn until it ﬁnds
food. The experimenters watched the rat exploring and then interrupted
its search (always before it had found the food) and kept it out of the maze
for a little while. Now the rat has to restart its search, but if it is smart, it
doesn’t revisit arms that it had already explored before it was interrupted.
Cook et al. (1983) found, not surprisingly, that rats restarted their search
in the right place better if they only had 2 arms to remember rather than if
they had 4 arms to remember; and performance on remembering 4 visited
arms was better than on remembering 6 visited arms. This shows that
rats can remember, to some extent, their own previous searching episodes.
The decline in performance with number of arms to remember is not
surprising.
What was even more interesting is that the rats were actually better at
restarting their search in the right place when they were interrupted after
exploring 10 arms than when they were were interrupted after exploring
8 arms, and better if interrupted after exploring 8 than if interrupted
after exploring 6. The most plausible interpretation of these results is
that the rats not only have a retrospective memory for the arms they
have visited, but also what is called a prospective memory8
for the arms
they have yet to visit. For both kinds of memory, there is a quantitative
deterioration in performance correlated with the load placed on it (2 arms
visited or yet to visit, 4 arms visited or yet to visit). The rats knew pretty
well where to restart searching both when they had searched just 2 arms
7
If you want to see what these mazes look like, go to http://www08.homepage.
villanova.edu/michael.brown/galleryram.htm. (This website was still active on 23/08/2006.)
For a general discussion of the conclusions that can be drawn from experiments with
animals in radial mazes, see Shettleworth (1998, pp. 242–246).
8
The term prospective memory was introduced by Meacham and Singer (1977).
78 The Origins of Meaning
and when they had only 2 arms left to search, and didn’t manage so
well when they had either already searched 4 arms or still had 4 arms
left to search. And their worst performance was when they had already
searched 6 arms, and thus still had another 6 to search. This shows
that the rats’ behaviour is guided by memory, and furthermore that they
are sensitive to whether this is memory of past episodes or memory of
future plans.9
The rats’ behaviour shows that they distinguish past from
future.
This claim that rats can distinguish past from future, though technically
true, disguises a large quantitative gap between humans and non-humans.
‘Current evidence, although indirect or based on anecdote rather than on
systematic study, suggests that non-human animals, including the great
apes, are conﬁned to a “present” that is limited by their current drive
states. In contrast, mental time travel by humans is relatively uncon-
strained’ (Suddendorf and Corballis 1997, p. 133). As we have seen, the
evidence is in fact not merely anecdotal, but Suddendorf and Corballis do
have a good point. The rats in Cook et al.’s experiments were motivated
by a very present drive to ﬁnd food. Gärdenfors (2004, pp. 239–240)
summarizes: ‘[A]ll examples of planning among animals available in the
ethological literature concern planning for current needs. Animals plan
because they are hungry or thirsty, tired or frightened. Their motivation
comes from the present state of the body.’ Gärdenfors is not quite right
in this last statement, as Mulcahy and Call (2006) showed that some, but
not all, bonobos in their experiment collected a speciﬁc tool for use on a
speciﬁc food-retrieving task as much as fourteen hours later.
The literature on ‘mental time-travel’ (MTT), to which Suddendorf and
Corballis’ article belongs, stresses the ability of humans to plan long into
the future, and to remember events long in the past. It seems likely that
language plays a role in this enhanced ability of humans. See Suddendorf
and Busby (2003a, 2003b) and Clayton et al. (2003) for a lively, but largely
terminological, debate on the relationship between episodic memory and
MTT. The idea that the diﬀerence is at least partly a matter of degree, that
MTT is based on episodic memory expanded in scope, is not mentioned.
Suddendorf’s agenda is to ﬁnd, in MTT, a unique distinguishing feature
of humans, so he has to insist on the qualitative diﬀerence between it and
episodic memory.
9
Note that rats’ ability to smell where they have been in the past does not account for
their diﬀerent performance on 2, 4, and 6 arms searched or yet to be searched.
A New Kind of Memory Evolves 79
The theoretical possibility of a qualitative diﬀerence between episodic
memory and MTT is raised by considering the diﬀerent roles of the
hippocampus during sleep and the waking state.
In the awake brain, information about the external world reaches the
hippocampus via the entorhinal cortex, whereas during sleep the direction of
information ﬂow is reversed: population bursts initiated in the hippocampus
invade the neocortex. We suggest that neocortico-hippocampal transfer
of information and the modiﬁcation process in neocortical circuitries by
the hippocampal output take place in a temporally discontinuous manner
associated with theta/gamma oscillations [the wake–sleep cycle, JRH].
(Buzsaki 1998, p. 17)
Humans, as we all know, can store memories of episodes that happened
before the last period of sleep. There is a correlation between sleep-
deprivation and the diﬀerent types of memory discussed here. ‘In humans,
there is now evidence that diﬀerent types of tasks are diﬀerentially sen-
sitive to rapid eye movement sleep deprivation (REMD). Memory for
declarative or explicit types of tasks appear not to be aﬀected by REM
sleep loss, while memory for cognitive procedural or implicit types of
material are impaired by REMD’ (Smith 1995, p. 137).
One may hypothesize, then, that an instance of human uniqueness
is the inability of non-humans explicitly to recall episodes before the
last period of sleep, related to a qualitative diﬀerence between MTT,
which perhaps only humans can do, and short-term episodic memory,
which some animals have. Tulving (2005, p. 20) also speculates along
these lines: ‘A special evolutionary leap may have been necessary to
produce brains that were capable of bridging the remembering across
the diurnal divide.’ Here the asymmetry between past and future may
seem to be a problem. Why should the (in)ability to remember things
yesterday and before transfer to the (in)ability to plan things tomorrow
and after? The answer could be simple. The prospective plans formu-
lated by non-humans could be forgotten during sleep, just like retro-
spective memories, so that any plans formulated today can never get
carried out tomorrow. Sleep, according to this hypothesis, puts a nat-
ural boundary around both past and future time travel in (some) non-
human animals. I wonder if this is true. The evidence of Menzel (2005)’s
chimpanzee Panzee, who could remember where food had been hidden
on an earlier day, would indicate that chimpanzees have crossed this
boundary to the human side, at least in the domain of events involving
food.
80 The Origins of Meaning
On the issue of the evolutionary timing of semantic and episodic
memory, it is unfortunately necessary to try to resolve a discrepancy
between my account here and that of Merlin Donald (1991), in a well-
received book. By my account, and that of many others, semantic memory
preceded episodic memory. A hot question in the literature is whether
episodic memory is uniquely human. Tulving thinks it is, while others
claim to have found ‘episodic-like’ memory in animals. I believe that some
tiny seeds of episodic memory, restricted by time (perhaps to same-day
or even same-hour experiences) and by domain (e.g. only for food), can
be found in some animals. Furthermore, I argued in the previous chapter
for co-involvement of semantic (perceptual, declarative) and procedural
(motor, imperative) information in an animal’s permanent brain-store.
So my story is that semantic/procedural memory evolved before episodic
memory.
By contrast, Merlin Donald’s account of human evolution is that our
ancestors passed through four stages in sequence: ﬁrst, a stage of ‘episodic
culture’, characteristic of apes; next ‘mimetic culture’; then ‘mythic cul-
ture’; and ﬁnally with fully modern humans ‘theoretic culture’. There is
much to recommend in Donald’s account, especially his emphasis on the
interaction of individual minds and social cultures, and also especially the
later stages of his evolutionary trajectory. My diﬃculty is with his use of
episodic and semantic, and the implied reverse evolutionary ordering to
what I, and many others, envisage. To a large extent, the disagreement is
terminological, but it needs sorting out.
Donald’s use of episodic and semantic is clearly at odds with the
literature reviewed earlier, which debates, as a live issue, whether
any non-human animals have episodic memory, while granting that
they have semantic memory. Here are some characteristic passages of
Donald’s:
Most animals, including humans, possess procedural memories, and therefore
the term is not particularly useful in characterizing the dominant feature
of mammalian culture. Episodic memory is probably unique to birds and
mammals ...Humans possess both procedural and episodic memory systems,
but these have been superseded in us by semantic memory, which is by far the
dominant form of memory in human culture ...In contrast, episodic memory
is dominant in most mammals, including apes. Animals do not seem to
possess the systems of representation that would allow them to have elaborate
semantic networks. Their experience, in this light, is entirely episodic. The
pinnacle of episodic culture, the culture of the great apes, marked the starting
point of the human journey. (Donald 1991, p. 152)
A New Kind of Memory Evolves 81
‘From a human viewpoint, the limitations of episodic culture are in the
realm of representation. Animals excel at situational analysis and recall but
cannot re-present a situation to reﬂect on it, either individually or collectively.
This is a serious memory limitation; there is no equivalent of semantic struc-
ture in animal memory, despite the presence of a great deal of situational
knowledge. Semantic memory depends on the existence of abstract, distinc-
tively human representational systems. The cognitive evolution of human cul-
ture is, on one level, largely the story of the development of various semantic
representational systems. (Donald 1991, p. 160)
Contrast these quotations with Tulving, the modern pioneer of this ﬁeld,
who believes that episodic memory may be uniquely human: ‘Many ani-
mals, other than humans, especially mammals and birds, possess well
developed knowledge-of-the-world (semantic memory) systems’ (Tulving
1999, p. 278).
So Donald and Tulving (and I) agree that animals have ‘a great deal
of situational knowledge’ (Donald) or ‘well developed knowledge-of-the-
world’ (Tulving). Tulving, like many other researchers, is happy to call this
semantic memory, while Donald is not. Hence this diﬀerence is indeed
terminological, and regrettably confusing. From his books (Donald 1991,
2001), it appears that Donald reserves the terms semantic and declarative
exclusively for symbolic knowledge and behaviour. For example: ‘It is
certainly true that in general, animals lack detailed declarative knowledge
about the world. Whatever knowledge they do have remains implicit
because they cannot express, or declare, their knowledge in any form
of symbolic representation’ (Donald 2001, pp. 119–120). My position
from the outset of this book has been that the modern human ‘semantic’
link between public symbols and entities in the world is indirect, and
was preceded in evolution by a more direct link between private mental
representations and the world. I and others call such developed systems
of real-world knowledge ‘semantic’. Some of this knowledge can also rea-
sonably be called ‘declarative’, too, because it involves knowledge of facts
rather than just ﬁxed action patterns triggered by releasing mechanisms.
For example, when an experimenter plays a recording of a dominant
baboon making a submissive noise while a subordinate baboon makes
a threatening noise, other baboons register surprise, by looking longer at
the source of the noise (Cheney and Seyfarth 1999; Bergman et al. 2003).
This demonstrates knowledge of a social fact, who-dominates-whom.
Turning now to the use of episodic, there are also grounds for seeing
agreement on the basic facts, with divergent uses of terminology. Donald
writes: ‘In fact, the word that seems best to epitomize the cognitive culture
82 The Origins of Meaning
of apes ...is the term episodic. Their lives are lived entirely in the present,
as a series of concrete episodes’ (Donald 1991, p. 149). So Donald agrees
with Suddendorf and Corballis that ‘current evidence ...suggests that
non-human animals, including the great apes, are conﬁned to a “present”
that is limited by their current drive states’ (Suddendorf and Corballis
1997, p. 133). But their point was to deny non-humans episodic memory,
or mental time-travel, whereas Donald makes a point of emphasizing the
‘episodic’ nature of ape lives. Donald does admit to using the term episodic
‘in a rather idiosyncratic sense’ (Donald 1991, p. 149). In his usage, it is
crucially linked with the representation of experienced events, concurrent
with the time they happen, rather than with recalling them after they have
happened. Using episodic in this sense, with no implications for mental
time-travel, I am in substantial agreement with Donald on apes’ ongoing
representations of current scenes and events; see Chapters 4 and 5.
Donald’s exposition does not distinguish between the hypotheses which
have exercised researchers such as Clayton (working on scrub jays),
Schwartz (studying a gorilla), and Menzel (experimenting with a chim-
panzee). Do these animals recall speciﬁc events, locating them somehow in
the past? Or do they just store static information about the world learned
from their experience of events? Donald does not discuss the distinc-
tion. Tomasello, a commentator on this work, complains that ‘Donald’s
lack of familiarity with current theory and research on ape (especially
chimpanzee) social cognition and social learning has led him seriously
astray’ (Tomasello 1993, p. 771). Other commentators on Donald’s theory
have taken issue with his claims about episodic memory. ‘Donald seems
intent on preserving the idea of episodic memories largely for primates:
“Episodic memory is apparently more evolved in apes than in many other
species ...” (p. 151) As far as we know, this notion is unfounded. ...There
is no comparative evidence for Donald’s view of the progressive evo-
lution of episodic memory systems’ (Cynx and Clark 1993, p. 757).
Vauclair and Fagot (1993), without using the term semantic, empha-
size the generality and abstractness of non-linguistic animals’ mental
representations.
Before ending this section, here is one more thought on human unique-
ness and episodic memory. The hippocampus is known to be involved
in human episodic memory. Fortin et al. (2002) show that hippocampal
lesions in rats impair their ability to recall a sequence of stimuli. Control
of sequences is, of course, also crucial for human syntax. Perhaps there is
some connection between humans’ unique episodic memory capacity and
their unique syntactic abilities.
A New Kind of Memory Evolves 83
Summarizing this section, there is evidence, from experiments with
chimpanzees and gorillas, from studies of scrub jay food-caching and rat
maze-searching, and from neurophysiological studies of rat dreaming, for
a kind of episodic memory in non-humans, certainly not attaining the
level of mental time-travel or domain-generality that humans are capable
of, but providing a seed from which the human capacity could evolve.
3.2 episodic memory and kantian analytic/synthetic
In the eighteenth century, Immanuel Kant (1783) tapped into a fundamen-
tal intuition about language when he propounded his distinction between
analytic judgements and synthetic judgements.10
The distinction has since
Kant’s time been applied to sentences, i.e. to publicly available objects,
rather than to private judgements. But, interestingly, Kant thought that
judgements still had language-like structure, in that he deﬁned the ana-
lytic/synthetic distinction in terms of Subject and Predicate. The distinc-
tion is this: analytic sentences are sentences that are necessarily true by
virtue of the meanings of the words in them. For example, Cats are
animals, Gold is a metal, and Water is a liquid would all have been held
to be analytic sentences. By contrast, synthetic sentences are true or false
according to the state of the world they describe. For example, Our cat
has ﬂeas, We bought gold rings in Dakota, and The water at Portobello
beach was cold yesterday are synthetic sentences. They are not true or
false (whichever they are) simply because of the relationships between the
words in them.
Gallons of philosophical blood have been spilt over the ana-
lytic/synthetic distinction. The most authoritative and philosophically
correct position is Quine (1951)’s, who argued that the distinction can-
not, in the philosophical limit, be maintained. Philosophically, Quine is
entirely right (except for a few atypical kinds of sentence) but he is ﬁghting
a losing battle when it comes to native speakers’ intuitions about the
meanings of words in their language. Ask anyone (untutored in philoso-
phy or semantics) ‘Does the concept of a cat somehow contain (or invoke)
the concept of an animal?’ or ‘Can you think of gold without thereby
thinking of some metal?’ I’d be surprised if anyone answered No to the
ﬁrst or Yes to the second question. The intuition that there are necessary
10
Other philosophers had made a similar distinction. Aristotle (c. 350 bc) distinguished
between essential and accidental properties; Leibniz (1714) (Rescher, 1991) distinguished
between truths of reason and truths of fact; Hume (1739) distinguished between relations
of ideas and matters of fact.
84 The Origins of Meaning
components of the meanings of words is very strong. We use these connec-
tions between concepts in our everyday reasoning. If I see a notice saying
‘No animals allowed beyond this point’, I know that I can’t take my dog
there. If I see a sign saying ‘Please put all metal objects in the tray’, I
know I should put my gold ring in. Of course, there are practical context-
dependent limits on how far people follow such inferences. Most travellers
don’t actually take oﬀ their wedding rings when going through airport
security gates. But the strict sense in which a gold ring is held by native
English speakers necessarily to be a metal object is indisputable (except
in impractical Quinean philosophical terms). Note here the qualiﬁcation
‘held by native speakers’. We are not speaking of a necessary relationship
in any way independent of language.
There is a beautiful saying by Otto Neurath about the meanings of
words: ‘We are like sailors who have to rebuild their ship on the open sea,
without ever being able to lay it up in a dock and remake it with the best
materials.’11
The ship is our language, that we use every day to negotiate
with. If I say to you ‘I need some liquid’ and you pass me a brick, you have
not respected the meanings of the words I used. So we need the meanings
of most words to hold constant in their relations with the meanings of
other words, just in order to communicate with each other. But we do
also renegotiate the meanings of words, often in strained circumstances.
To take one example, the word marriage is now undergoing a change
in meaning. It was previously necessarily linked in the minds of native
English speakers to the union of a man and a woman. That is changing.
But we can’t change the meanings of all words simultaneously. Gently
does it. In changing the meanings of a few words, we need to hold onto
the shared assumptions about the necessary meanings of other words.
So, though marriage is changing in meaning, we have to hold fast to our
understanding of the meanings of words such as man, woman, and union.
We, like Neurath’s sailors, have to keep the ship of our language aﬂoat,
even while reshaping it.
The distinction between the (held-to-be) necessary meanings of words
and merely incidental facts about the world that we express in syn-
thetic sentences, using those same words, is absolutely fundamental to
the human capacity for meaningful language. Occasionally, it is useful
to strive for clariﬁcation by saying ‘It depends what you mean by X’.
But if the meanings of all words were up for grabs, all of the time,
11
The original German was ‘Wie Schiﬀer sind wir, die ihr Schiﬀ auf oﬀener See umbauen
müssen, ohne es jemals auf einem Dock zerlegen und aus besten Bestandteilen neu errichten
zu können.’
A New Kind of Memory Evolves 85
including the meanings of depend, you, and mean, we absolutely could
not communicate. Humpty Dumpty was, of course, wrong when he said
to Alice ‘When I use a word, it means just whatever I want it to mean.’ I
suggest that the semantic relationships that we agree to keep unchanged,
for the moment, are the connections captured by the idea of an analytic
sentence.
Now, what has this to do with the psychological distinction between
semantic and episodic memory? Note that particular facts that we store
in episodic memory, such as that the taxi that drove past me in the rain
last night was going north, or that the man opposite me in the train had
a moustache, are expressed by synthetic sentences. They are remembered
facts about the world, but the world might have been otherwise, in which
case the sentences concerned would be false. Facts held in episodic mem-
ory are expressed in synthetic sentences. One of the most obvious uses of
language is to give each other new information, to tell people about events
that we know happened, but that they don’t know about. Such informative
messages are expressed in synthetic sentences, and are reports of episodes
held in episodic memory. If we didn’t have episodic memories, we wouldn’t
have much to tell each other. By contrast, uttering analytic sentences, such
as Lions are animals, is pretty useless in factual communication, though
it can serve a purpose in educating the young about the commonly held
meanings of words.
Men are male, Wolves are animate, and Taxis are vehicles are analytic
sentences. We don’t store the knowledge that taxis are vehicles, or that
men are male, in the same way as we store episodic memories. That is
‘semantic’ knowledge, stating, for the time being at least, facts that we
hold to be necessary. It is, of course, signiﬁcant that the term semantic was
chosen to describe this kind of memory, although it is not only manifested
in language. Semantic memory is widely attributed to animals: ‘Many
animals, other than humans, especially mammals and birds, possess well
developed knowledge-of-the-world (semantic memory) systems’ (Tulving
1999, p. 278). Of course, animals cannot make the speciﬁcally linguistic
connections between concepts that humans can make. But the learned
connections between diﬀerent classes of experience that animals have
internalized as automatic guides to their behaviour are, for the animal,
necessary.
I have suggested a parallelism between the psychological notions of
semantic and episodic memory and the philosophical notions of analytic
and synthetic sentences. The parallelism is imperfect, because memory,
of both kinds, is an individual private psychological matter, whereas the
86 The Origins of Meaning
sentences of a language are public socially conventional entities. A pre-
linguistic individual, in learning to navigate the world, may form many
permanent ‘semantic’ associations that are idiosyncratic to it, and not
necessarily shared by others. Everybody builds a mental map of his home,
and navigates pretty automatically around it, so that the particular rela-
tions between rooms, hallways, stairs, and front and back doors become
part of the individual’s semantic memory store. The relations between
rooms are permanent and static. There is no question here of this being
memory of ‘things that happened to me’ (although of course memories
of things that happened to me can be related to objects in this memory
store). A sentence such as The dining room is at the foot of the stairs
is not analytic, but if all the people in a society build similar semantic
memories relating to certain aspects of their environment, we can expect
the sentences describing those memories to be analytic in the language
of the community, if the language has developed words suﬃcient to talk
about them. An example would be The roots of a tree grow in the ground.
The following generalizations seem to hold. No individual episodic mem-
ory (e.g. that Fido bit me) is described by an analytic sentence. Semantic
memories shared by all members of a community (e.g. that snow feels
cold) are described by sentences likely to be judged analytic.
A belief in the necessary truth of analytic sentences is a kind of essen-
tialism. It would maintain, for instance, that being an animal is an essen-
tial feature of being a cat. Most people (apart from philosophers, and even
philosophers in their everyday linguistic practice) intuitively subscribe to
essentialist assumptions, for better or for worse. Barrett (2001, p. 1) argues
that, in our evolutionary history, it was for the better:
[P]sychological essentialism results from a history of natural selection acting
on human representation and inference systems. It has been argued that the
features that distinguish essentialist representational systems are especially
well suited for representing natural kinds. If the evolved function of essential-
ism is to exploit the rich inductive potential of such kinds, then it must be
subserved by cognitive mechanisms that carry out at least three distinct func-
tions: identifying these kinds in the environment, constructing essentialized
representations of them, and constraining inductive inferences about kinds.
In keeping with the arguments in this section, constructing essentialized
representations of natural kinds would include, for example, forming a
representation of the category mouse with a mental feature correspond-
ing to certain kind of scurrying biological motion as an essential property.
Another, more fundamental, example of an essentialized representation
A New Kind of Memory Evolves 87
would be that of person with its connection to animate. This last
example is taken from Chomsky (1975, pp. 45–52), with whom I con-
cur that our essentialist intuitions derive from ‘systems of language and
common-sense understanding’. My point here is that some (not all) of
a human system of common-sense understanding precedes a system of
language, both ontogenetically and phylogenetically.
Amnesics don’t forget the meanings of words. They can’t remember
whether a particular man had a moustache, but they know that men are
male. The faint beginnings of an ability to store two kinds of information,
semantic and episodic, can be seen in some animals, such as scrub jays,
rats, and chimpanzees. This ability is one lying at the heart of human
language. Somehow in our evolution this separation of two memory types
was emphasized and selected for.
C H A P T E R F O U R
Animals Form
Proto-propositions
Animals cannot think all the same kinds of thoughts as humans. Some
thoughts only come with language. Examples are the thoughts expressed
by Christmas is on a Thursday this year and The square root of minus one
is an imaginary number. However, animals do think and animal ‘proto-
thought’ laid part of the evolutionary foundation for human language. In
this chapter and the next, we will look at approaches to describing and
circumscribing animal thoughts in order to illuminate how they paved a
way for the later human developments. In other words, the transition from
non-human to human was not such a drastic jump as some have imagined.
The term proto-thought is used by Dummett (1993); in his view animals
are capable of proto-thought but cannot entertain propositions, which are
more closely associated with language. I will argue to the contrary that
animals are capable of proposition-like cognition; much hinges on how
one deﬁnes proposition, and this is surprisingly not well pinned down in
philosophy.
Within philosophy and linguistic semantics, there is a curiously para-
doxical attitude to the relationship between propositions and sentences of
natural languages. On the one hand, it is insisted that they are not the
same thing. For example, the same proposition can be expressed by very
many diﬀerent sentences. Any sentences which are true in exactly the same
set of circumstances as each other express the same proposition. Thus
active/passive pairs, such as A bus ran over John and John was run over by
a bus express the same proposition.1
This same proposition would also be
expressed by I was run over by a bus, if spoken by John, and by You were
run over by a bus if addressed to John. And if we were to translate any of
1
If the John referred to is indeed the same person when these sentences are uttered; the
same condition applies to the other examples below.
Animals form Proto-propositions 89
these sentences faithfully into other languages, those translations would
all express this same proposition that I have mentioned. So a proposition
is something abstract, a possible fact. A proposition is not necessarily an
actual fact, as There is ice in the Sun also expresses a proposition, which
happens to be false. These are standard examples intended to show the
independence of propositions from natural language sentences.
On the other hand, it is also often assumed that propositional thoughts
are signiﬁcantly tied to natural language sentences. For example: ‘All the
propositional thoughts that we consciously introspect ...take the form of
sentences in a public language’ (Bermúdez 2003, pp. 159–160, italics in
original). This comes down to a belief that propositions have the same
(or similar) predicate-argument structure as natural language sentences.
Apart from simple feature-placing propositions with zero-place predi-
cates, as typically expressed in sentences about the weather, like It’s raining
or It’s hot, the idea is that propositions are about particular objects. And
a common assumption is that, like sentences, a proposition must have
at least two parts, some of which serve to identify the objects that the
proposition is about, and one of which, the predicate, expresses a property
or a relation. Typical examples in familiar notation are tall(john) and
taller-than(john, mary). What is neglected in this assumption is that,
within standard predicate logic, there are even simpler propositions in
which, while they do have a separation between a predicate and its argu-
ment(s), no speciﬁc term actually identiﬁes the argument in any universal
context-free way. These propositions are existential, as in ∃x lion(x),
translatable as There’s a lion.
In the rareﬁed vision of traditional logic, a proposition stating that at
least one lion exists is taken as relating to a whole universe of discourse, an
assumed world in which the users of the logic operate. Such a universe of
discourse is held constant for all uses of the logical language, so that the
statement that a lion exists, for example, makes a sweeping claim about
the whole world assumed. The aspiring omniscient global scope of early
twentieth-century logic is seen in the opening aphorisms of Wittgenstein’s
Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus: ‘The world is everything that is the case’
(Wittgenstein 1922, 1) and ‘The facts in logical space are the world’
(Wittgenstein 1922, 1.13). In particular, there is no adjustment of the
semantics of the logical language to suit diﬀerent occasions of use. For
bounded mortal human interaction, this is impractical. If I say ‘There’s
a lion!’ on some particular occasion, I am not taken to be making a
statement that, as of now, lions are not extinct. More likely, I am saying
something relevant to the immediate situation, such as that, as we tour the
90 The Origins of Meaning
safari park, I have spotted a lion. Pragmatically, such an utterance would
be accompanied by some gesture to indicate what I am talking about.
Traditional logic makes no distinction between There’s a lion and That’s a
lion, as, being designed to be universal and context-free, it has no way of
building in a deictic expression with the function of the English pronoun
that, which takes its reference from the immediate situation in which it
is used. I will argue that non-human animals are capable of representing
propositions, which do respect a separation between logical predicate and
argument, but where there is no speciﬁc kind of mental term serving
to identify, in any universal or context-free sense, the object(s) that the
proposition is about. Identifying objects as recurring from one occasion
to the next can be done reliably enough without recourse to speciﬁcally
nominal terms. When it comes to any public expression of internally rep-
resented propositions (a stage that animals have not reached), successful
reference to particular recurring objects is achieved pragmatically, by prin-
ciples deriving from assumptions about communication being relevant to
the current situation.
This last discussion illustrates a concern to relate the logical idea of a
proposition to plausible settings of communication and to psychologically
realistic constraints on what kinds of facts and events animals, including
humans, can entertain in their minds. This chapter will pursue this con-
cern, starting with a numerical limit on the size of simple propositions.
4.1 the magical number 4—how big is a simple thought?
In this section, psychological facts about simple judgements of numerosity
are brought to bear on a limitation that it seems necessary to impose
on any psychologically implementable conception of a proposition. In
Chomsky’s classical view of linguistic competence, factors such as mem-
ory limitations are not relevant, but belong to a theory of performance.
According to this classical generative thinking, a million-word sentence
could be perfectly grammatical, even if impossible to utter. Similarly,
though to my knowledge, nobody has discussed memory limitations on
the size of simple propositions, it would be consistent with the generative
stance that a predicate could in principle take a million arguments, with
the limitation to a maximum of about four arguments being regarded as a
matter of performance.2
In practice, the simple propositions discussed by
2
To put this in the kind of terms used by generative linguists, UG imposes no constraint
on the number of arguments a predicate may take.
Animals form Proto-propositions 91
linguists and logicians alike are almost entirely limited to cases where the
predicates take four or fewer arguments. I will show a psychological basis
for this limitation.
How many items can you take in at a quick glance, and say how many
there are?3
If I quickly uncover, and then re-cover, four coins on a plate
in front of you, can you tell me how many you saw? Now, what if there
were ten coins on the plate? The answer would be much less certain, if you
even tried to give an answer. And when your computer beeps at you, can
you say how many beeps there were? If there were four beeps, you could
get it right. If there were ten beeps, you probably couldn’t, unless you are
a musician and used a chunking strategy to break the sequence of beeps
up into musical bars. Recognizing at a glance how many objects are in
a group, without verbal counting, was labelled ‘subitizing’ by Kaufman
et al. (1949) and there is now a massive psychological literature on it. It
is established that people vary somewhat, but the limit to subitizing is
around four or ﬁve items. People can train themselves to perform and get
better up to about eight or nine items. But the natural untrained limit of
subitization is around four or ﬁve.
Subitizing must be strictly distinguished from counting. Counting
involves reciting a verbal sequence, and simultaneously associating each
word with one of the objects in the group, until all the objects have been
visited just once. The last word you utter expresses the number of objects
in the group. When we hear anecdotes of crows being able to ‘count’ to
some number, this is a misuse of the term ‘count’. Crows don’t count, they
subitize. In fact no animals, apart from humans, count, as only humans
have words to use in the recited counting sequence. All animal whole-
number ability is based on subitizing. And humans have about the same
subitizing range as animals. When it comes to subitizing, we are with
the monkeys and dogs. ‘In summary, the system used by human adults
to apprehend small, exact numerosities is present and functional both
in human infants and in two species of non-human primate. These ﬁnd-
ings suggest that this system is both ontogenetically and phylogenetically
primitive’ (Hauser and Spelke 2004, p. 861). These same authors, along
with Dehaene (1997) and Dehaene et al. (1998) present copious evidence
for the strikingly similar basic (i.e. non-linguistic) numerical abilities of
humans and a range of animals. Humans, of course, can specify exact
numbers higher than the subitizing range of about four, but only using lan-
guage. The primitive limit of about four, being found in animals, applied
3
The ideas in this section are set out rather more fully in Section 4 of Hurford (2003a).
92 The Origins of Meaning
to humans before the emergence of language. Without using language, we
still can’t go any further.
It has been part of the folklore of psychology for many years that
the limit on short-term memory is ‘the magical number seven, plus or
minus two’, stemming from a highly inﬂuential article by George Miller
(Miller 1956). More recently, Nelson Cowan has revisited the issue, and by
thorough control of auxiliary devices such as chunking, concludes that the
real limit of human short-term memory is in fact much less. ‘The prepon-
derance of evidence from procedures ﬁtting these [chunking-controlled]
conditions strongly suggests a mean memory capacity in adults of 3 to
5 chunks, whereas individual scores appear to range more widely from
about 2 up to about 6 chunks. The evidence for this pure capacity limit
is considerably more extensive than that for the somewhat higher limit of
7 + 2 stimuli’ (Cowan 2001). Cowan relates these ﬁndings to subitization,
concluding: ‘it seems that a focal attention strategy involving eye move-
ments is important for visual enumeration of over 4 items, but not at or
below 4 items, the average number that subjects may be able to hold in the
limited-capacity store at one time’.
We have moved from the narrow topic of subitization to the wider topic
of general limits on short-term memory (Cowan’s work). We can now take
this line of thought further, applying it to the task of keeping track of a
number of moving objects in a visual scene. Here the major research is
by Zenon Pylyshyn (see Pylyshyn 1989, 2000; Pylyshyn and Storm 1988).
Pylyshyn’s typical experiments involve presenting subjects with an array
of objects (on a screen), and identifying a subset of them as ‘targets’ to be
tracked while all the objects move around (not necessarily with ‘common
fate’). The general ﬁnding is that people can successfully keep track of
a maximum of four objects. Successful keeping track is measured by
subjects’ reporting sudden small changes in the objects they are attending
to. It turns out that the number of other, untracked, or background,
objects is irrelevant, having no eﬀect on subjects’ abilities to track the
target objects. Pylyshyn hypothesizes that the mind has available a very
small number of indexes (I ﬁnd it easy to think of them as variables over
individuals), which can be temporarily assigned to individual objects for
the purpose of tracking them. These indexes are like mental labels (think
of them as w, x, y, and z in an algebra exercise) attached to the objects for
the duration of the tracking task in hand. Given another task, the mind
throws away any former assignments of the indexes and reassigns them to
whatever objects are used in the next task. ‘Visual indexing thus provides a
means of setting attentional priorities when multiple stimuli compete for
Animals form Proto-propositions 93
attention, as indexed objects can be accessed and attended before other
objects in the visual ﬁeld’ (Sears and Pylyshyn 2000, p. 2). ‘There is a limit
of 4 or 5 such indexes available. The indexes are object-based in that they
do not point to the locations of objects but to the objects themselves, and,
as a result, indexes keep referencing objects as the latter move around.
The purpose of indexes is to bind objects to internal references or names’
(Sears and Pylyshyn 2000, p. 13). The same idea has been developed by
a number of other psychologists. One prominent way of expressing it is
that the mind has available a small number of initially blank ‘object ﬁles’,
and temporarily stores information about tracked objects in these ﬁles.
Such a ﬁle is updated as new information about an object comes in (e.g.
if it approaches, or changes shape), and is emptied for allocation to a new
object when an object ceases to occupy attention. (See Kahneman and
Treisman 1984, 1992.)
Pylyshyn’s results are backed up by other research:
When presented for 250 ms [milliseconds] with a scene containing 10 distinct
objects, human observers can remember up to 4 objects with full conﬁdence,
and between 2 and 3 more when forced to guess. Importantly, the objects that
the subjects consistently failed to report elicited a signiﬁcant negative priming
eﬀect when presented in a subsequent task, suggesting that their identity
was represented in high-level cortical areas of the visual system, before the
corresponding neural activity was suppressed during attentional selection.
(VanRullen and Koch 2003, p. 75)
This shows that the limit at the magical number 4 is a limit on what is
attended to with some kind of awareness—the ‘non-target’ objects are in
some sense also unconsciously present to the mind.
Neuroscientiﬁc research has now located a very small area in the pos-
terior parietal cortex responsible for encoding and maintenance of this
small number of items in short-term visual memory: see Todd and Marois
2004; Vogel and Machizawa 2004. The former writers relate their ﬁndings
to everyday visual experience: ‘At any instant, our visual system allows
us to perceive a rich and detailed visual world. Yet our internal, explicit
representation of this visual world is extremely sparse: we can only hold
in mind a minute fraction of the visual scene’ (Todd and Marois 2004, p.
751). (We shall see the involvement of the posterior parietal cortex again
in the next section.)
And here, ﬁnally, is the connection to the light that evolution can shed
on semantics. Humans and monkeys have a common limit on subitiz-
ing. Hauser et al. (2000) let semi-wild rhesus monkeys watch while they
94 The Origins of Meaning
baited diﬀerent opaque containers with diﬀerent numbers of apple slices
and waited to see which container the monkeys would approach. ‘The
monkeys chose the container with the greater number of apple slices when
the comparisons were one versus two, two versus three, three versus four
and three versus ﬁve slices. They failed at four versus ﬁve, four versus
six, four versus eight and three versus eight slices’ (Hauser et al. 2000,
p. 829). Humans and monkeys also share a very similar visual system. It
is reasonable to suppose that the human limit to roughly four trackable
items in a visual scene is also shared by monkeys, or if humans are
diﬀerent, the diﬀerence is only of small degree. The limitation on how
many objects can be actively attended to when taking in a visual scene is,
then, very ancient, long pre-dating language. And this limitation has had
a ﬁrmly constraining inﬂuence on language structure.
Typical sentences describe states of aﬀairs—events and situations. A
priori there is no upper bound on how many individual objects may be
involved in a ‘state of aﬀairs’. How big is a state of aﬀairs? How big
is a situation, or an event? Logic certainly cannot provide an answer.
Imagine that Martians had evolved in a completely diﬀerent way from
us and that they could take in as many as thirty separate objects at a
glance and keep reliable visual track of that many objects in a visual scene.
To be sure, the Martians’ brains would have to be wired up diﬀerently
from ours, but it is a logical possibility. Whatever we understand by the
word event it is not analytically constrained to involve only four objects
at maximum. Here’s a description of a complex event: Mary was ﬂirting
with Billy on the sofa, which Sara was scrubbing with liquid from a bucket
held by Sam, who was watching the European Cup ﬁnal on the TV. A lot is
going on here, involving nine things: Mary, Billy, the sofa, Sara, the liquid,
the bucket, Sam, the soccer match, and the TV set. All the participants
are in some way involved with each other in the same scene. It’s what
is happening, or what we have deemed to mention is happening, in the
room (where no doubt many other things are also happening). Notice that
in describing this complex situation we were forced to use subordinate
clauses. It couldn’t be done in a simple main clause.
An old schoolbook deﬁnition of a sentence4
is that it expresses ‘a
single thought’. Sensible people have always worried that this deﬁnition
is circular, because what is a single thought, if not something that can be
described in a sentence? The results I have summarized above give us an
4
This should really be a deﬁnition of a clause rather than a sentence, but schoolbooks
are not strong on the diﬀerence between clauses and sentences.
Animals form Proto-propositions 95
escape from this circularity. There is a language-independent deﬁnition
of a ‘single thought’. It is derived from the limits of our ancient visual
attention system, which only allows us to keep track of a maximum of
four separate objects in a given scene.
The limitation to four objects of attention is respected in the prac-
tice, but not the theory, of logicians. Traditional logic has an ambivalent
attitude to psychology and natural language. In the dominant tradition,
propositions are non-mental timeless abstract entities, which may never-
theless be grasped or entertained by a mind. Propositions may be, for
example, the objects of belief. And when it comes to analysing the internal
components of propositions into predicates, arguments, and quantiﬁers,
logic in theory stipulates no limit on the number of arguments that a
predicate may take. ‘Two-termed relations are called dyadic, three-termed
triadic, etc. Some relations have a minimum of more than two, but no
maximum, number of terms; they are called polyadic’ (Langer 1967, p.
61). In theory, there can be fourteen-place predicates,5
or even million-
place predicates. But it is striking that the practical examples given by
logicians never exceed four argument places, and even the four-place
examples are linguistically strained. An example of Carnap’s is ‘Let “T(0,
8, 4, 3)” mean: “the temperature at the position 0 is as much higher than
at the position 8 as the temperature at the position 4 is higher than at the
position 3” ’ (Carnap 1937, p. 13). Mostly, the examples used by logicians
translate into very everyday sentences such as Sue is married to Bill, Sue
killed Bill, and Everyone applauded Sue. The pedagogical practices, if not
the theories, of logicians respect the psychological limit of the magical
number 4. They seem to have been guided in their practice by an intuition
that psychologically tractable propositions are strictly limited in size. This
size limit, as we have seen, corresponds closely with an evolutionarily
ancient limit on the number of objects in a scene that can be tracked
at once. The bare ‘Who did what to whom’ information contained in a
simple proposition is limited to four participants. (The idea here is close
to that of a ‘minimal subscene’, introduced by Itti and Arbib 2006.)
The evolutionary processes leading from limitations on visual attention
to syntactic limitations on the clause structure of public language will
not be discussed in detail here. At this point, we are concerned with
what mental representations of the outside world were available to pre-
linguistic creatures, before they ever started to communicate their internal
5
Indeed, it is common practice, if not good programming style, in logic-based computer
programming languages, such as Prolog, to have predicates with large numbers of argu-
ments. I admit to once having used a fourteen-place predicate in a Prolog program.
96 The Origins of Meaning
mental states publicly to one another. It seems reasonable to say that a
pre-linguistic ancestor of humans, at the moment of attending to some
visual scene, could mentally represent what it saw as a complex entity (call
it a ‘proto-proposition’) with up to four separate parts, corresponding to
the perceived participants in the situation, plus perhaps another overall
term covering the relation holding among them. Four participants was
probably a bit of a stretch, and probably the norm was less complex events
with one or two participants.
An animal’s brain during the perception of an event with several partic-
ipants, for example, an alpha male dragging a branch in front of a female,
is in a certain complex state. Interestingly, besides the upper limit on the
number of participants attended to, something is also known about the
temporal ‘size’ of perceived events, in humans, and it seems likely that the
facts are not very diﬀerent for closely related primates. The lower limit is
about 30 milliseconds. ‘Sensory data picked up within 30ms are treated as
cotemporal, that is, a relationship of separate stimuli with respect to the
before-after dimension cannot be established (Pöppel, 1997). Temporal
order threshold being identical in diﬀerent sensory modalities (Hirsh and
Sherrick, 1961), thus, also indicates a lower limit for event identiﬁcation’
(Pöppel and Wittmann 1999, p. 841). The upper limit is about 3 seconds.
‘A low-frequency mechanism ...binds successive events up to approxi-
mately 3 seconds into perceptual and action units. ...Metaphorically, the
brain asks every 3 seconds “what is new?” ’ (Pöppel and Wittmann 1999,
p. 842).
If an animal perceiving an event were capable of episodic memory, of
bringing this event to mind at a later time (a big ‘if’), its brain would be
in some similar state when recalling that event. And, given a motivation
to tell someone else about this event (another big ‘given’), this cognitive
recalled representation would have formed the basis of the message. Obvi-
ously, there are still some gaps in this story to be ﬁlled in, but we have
now seen a plausible candidate for the precursors of simple propositional
messages. This theme will be followed up in the next section.
4.2 predicate-argument structure in animal brains
I claim, so far, to have established that categories corresponding to
classes of objects and events in the world are represented in the brains
of animals close to humans, such as the great apes, but also to a lesser
extent in other animals. It seems reasonable to call these ‘pre-linguistic
concepts’, reﬂecting such reservations as that they may not be very far
Animals form Proto-propositions 97
abstracted from experience, and the animal may be able to exercise little
or no metacognitive regulation over them. A vervet monkey, for instance,
has the pre-linguistic concepts we might translate approximately as
leopard/run-up-tree, eagle/dive-under-bush, and python/
watch-ground. I see in these pre-linguistic concepts the forerunners of
predicates such as logicians use to analyse the meanings humans express
in language.6
The English speaker’s concept associated with the word leopard has a
lot in common with what the vervet has in its head that makes it respond
systematically to sight of a leopard or sound of a warning bark. Certainly,
the English speaker can entertain the concept when no leopard is present.
But we have seen that rats probably dream of mazes, so might not a vervet
dream of a leopard? We don’t know. The extension in the world of the
English word leopard is the class of leopards. There is a class of things
in the world, corresponding almost exactly, as it happens, with what we
call leopards, that causes a certain pattern of neural ﬁring in the vervet’s
brain. Adopting the logician’s terminology, the extension in the world of
this particular cluster of neural potentials in the vervet monkey is the
class of leopards. For the vervet there is more, as its concept also triggers
(or includes?) the typical motor response of running up a tree. Human
concepts associated with words are usually, but not always, freer of any
closely associated bunch of motor responses; we and our concepts are less
stimulus-bound, but it is a matter of degree.
This is an argument, then, that pre-linguistic predicates can be identi-
ﬁed in animal minds. They are not, of course, associated with words, and
they may be missing some of the sophisticated baggage associated with
human predicates, which is why I cautiously call them ‘pre-linguistic’.
They have the key quality of corresponding to classes of input stimuli.
They may have fuzzy extensions, in that marginal cases of the stimuli may
only trigger the associated neural ﬁrings in a probabilistic way. But in
reality this is also the case with almost all human predicates.
Animal pre-linguistic predicates come at various levels of generality.
Thus (using an obvious ad hoc notation) we can expect the vervet mon-
key to have, not only leopardvervet, but also leopardy-motionvervet
and leopardy-smellvervet. None of these pre-linguistic predicates is
necessarily simply translatable into the words of any human language,
but leopardvervet is pretty close to an English speaker’s leopard. The
6
This section sets out ideas with which I have a closer historical aﬃliation than I have
with many of the other ideas set out in this book. I paraphrase here much of my argument
from Hurford (2003a, 2003b).
98 The Origins of Meaning
pre-linguistic predicates don’t correspond to grammatical categories such
as Noun, Adjective, and Verb, either. This is in keeping with the logician’s
traditional notion of predicates, which cuts across all grammatical cate-
gories. To a logician, common nouns, verbs, adjectives, and prepositions
all express predicates. In short, keep in mind that we are dealing with pre-
linguistic entities here. The vervet monkey has no grammatical system to
relate to its mental predicates. But, I maintain, logicians (and especially
Frege) were psychologically on the right track in identifying the notion
of a logical predicate, as it is understood today. This is not to say that we
start with a logical analysis and look to ﬁnd it in animal behaviour. Rather
we notice in this case, but not necessarily elsewhere, a happy convergence
of theory between logic and the psychology of animal behaviour.
All this talk of animal pre-linguistic predicates raises the obvious
question: What about their arguments? A fundamental principle of logical
analysis is a dichotomy between two essentially diﬀerent types of term:
predicates and arguments. These two are combined in an asymmetric rela-
tionship to form propositions. A simple proposition consists of a predicate
with one or more arguments.7
Examples, in a transparent notation,
are tall(john) and between(paris, london, marseille), trans-
latable as John is tall and Paris is between London and Marseille. Here, the
predicates are tall and between, and the argument terms are john,
paris, london, and marseille.
Logicians distinguish between two types of argument in ﬁrst-order
logic: individual constants and individual variables. Both individual con-
stants and individual variables denote individual things, in diﬀerent ways.
In the logician’s scheme of things, individual constants denote particular
objects, such as particular people, particular cities, particular stars, par-
ticular chairs, and so on, as seen in the examples above with the terms
john, paris, london, and marseille. Each separate object that can
be talked about in the universe of discourse (the world that the logician is
concerned with) can have its own logical proper name. In explaining their
notations in textbooks, logicians typically start with individual constants
such as these illustrated, as they are somehow pedagogically simpler, and
closer to language.
The other type of argument is an individual variable. This is used to
pick out individual objects, but not any speciﬁc object. A variable, as its
name implies, has variable reference. Logicians use the alphabetic symbols
7
Or zero arguments, to accommodate woefully under-discussed predicates like those
corresponding to states of the weather, like hot and rain, underlying English sentences
such as It’s hot or It’s raining.
Animals form Proto-propositions 99
w, x, y, and z for individual variables. Simplifying somewhat, a formula
such as tall(x) would be translated into English as Something is tall.
Now, this is not so odd as it might seem. Let’s face it, we don’t have
individual names for most of the things we deal with in life. Say you
are watching a tranquil scene, and suddenly something moves; you don’t
know what it is, and all you can be sure of is that something moved.
This perception would readily be expressed by the logician’s move(x),
translatable8
as Something moved. Now put yourself in the vervet’s place,
sighting a leopard. You don’t know which leopard it is, and you don’t care,
so conjuring up its proper name, if it ever had one, is not possible or at
best a waste of time. The crucial information in this situation is that there’s
a leopard about, neatly expressible in the logician’s formula leopard(x).
All this may sound like dangerous anthropomorphism, thrusting man-
made logical categories onto poor dumb beasts. But in fact a case can
be made that exactly this split between predicates and their arguments
(individual variables, not individual constants) has psychological reality
for a large class of mammals (and probably many other animals, but
we don’t know about them). What do we need to identify something
like propositional predicate-argument structure in the brains of animals?
Recall the crucial principle that all stimuli from the outside world suﬀer a
sea-change in the brain into something rich and strange. Less poetically,
stimuli are transformed into interacting chains of ﬁrings of neurons. In
a previous section on semantic memory, a few examples were given. Is it
possible to identify separate processes in the brain, one for picking out any
arbitrary object (as an individual variable does) and another for delivering
some contentful judgement about the object (as a predicate term does),
and integrating these two processes? Yes.
Here’s how, in brief.9
In the visual systems, and to a lesser extent in
the auditory systems, of primates and other mammals, including cats, two
separate neural pathways can be identiﬁed. One pathway, known as the
‘where stream’, simply identiﬁes the location of an object in the space
around the animal; it gives no further information about the object—just
that it, whatever it is, is there. The information about what the object is is
delivered by a separate pathway, the ‘what stream’; this gives the animal
much richer information, for example, that it is a leopard, or an eagle, or
a leaf, or a person,10
or even, for a human, a person with all the properties
necessary to identify it as a unique individual, such as your mother.
8
Ignoring the past tense feature, to avoid unnecessary complication.
9
For much more detail, see Hurford (2003a, 2003b).
10
To reiterate a familiar point, not, of course, necessarily exactly what a human would
categorize as a leopard, or an eagle, or a leaf, etc., but probably things pretty close, since
100 The Origins of Meaning
The ‘where stream’ is known as the dorsal pathway. It takes signals
from the retina, via several intermediate stations, to posterior parietal
cortex, where motor responses are triggered directing saccades (fast eye
movements) or head-turning towards the relevant object. (Recall from the
previous section the role of posterior parietal cortex in keeping track of up
to four objects in a visual scene.) The object concerned need not have been
in foveal (central) vision. It can be glimpsed out of the corner of one’s eye.
The activation by the dorsal stream of eye saccades or head-turning has
the eﬀect of getting the object ‘in full view’, with the most sensitive part
of the retina taking input from it. Now the ‘what stream’, known as the
ventral pathway, kicks in. Information from the retina is also routed, by
the ventral stream, to the infero-temporal cortex and beyond, where it is
acted upon by the kinds of classiﬁcatory mechanisms we saw in the earlier
section on semantic memory (pp. 49–60).
There is wealth of evidence, of various sorts, for this separation of
function in human and some animal brains. I will just mention some of the
most fascinating here. There can be a dissociation between the function of
locating an object in the space around you and the function of deciding
what it is. Some patients, suﬀering from what is known paradoxically as
‘blindsight’, cannot tell an experimenter whether a postbox slot in front
of them is horizontal, vertical, or diagonal, or even whether the thing
in front of them is a postbox; but they can hold an envelope at exactly
the right angle to post it in the slot whose angle they cannot, with one
visual subsystem, see. For such patients, the dorsal stream is intact, but the
ventral stream has suﬀered an injury. (See Sanders et al. 1974; Weiskrantz
1986; Goodale et al. 1994; Milner and Goodale 1995; Weiskrantz 1997;
Marcel 1998. See also Ramachandran and Blakeslee 1998 for a popular
account.) Conversely, Goodale et al.’s patient RV could discriminate one
object from another, but was unable to use visual information to grasp
odd-shaped objects accurately (Goodale et al. 1994); RV’s dorsal stream
was impaired. For a survey of other evidence for separate dorsal and
ventral streams in vision and audition, see Hurford (2003a, Section 2);
Milner (1998) gives a brief but comprehensive overview of the evidence
from vision, up to 1998.
The psychological distinction between predicates and their arguments
can be expressed less technically, in terms of attention. Clearly, many
animals attend to objects in their environment. This involves ﬁrst an
our visual systems and basic aspects of our lives are similar to those of the higher animals
we are comparing.
Animals form Proto-propositions 101
orienting reﬂex, making whatever movements bring the object into
sharpest focus, and then paying close (‘focal’) attention to it, gathering
in whatever information it oﬀers. Psychologists distinguish between pre-
attentive processes and processes involved in focal attention. (See Julesz
and Schumer 1981; Bergen and Julesz 1983; Treisman 1985; Trick and
Pylyshyn 1993, 1994). Pre-attentive processes are those involved in the
orienting reﬂex, such as an object being glimpsed in the periphery of
the visual ﬁeld, followed by a saccade11
or head orientation to look at
the object head-on. Once the object is being looked at full-on, with light
from it entering the fovea, the part of the retina most densely packed
with receptors, the object is said to be in focal attention. Dudai (2002, p.
23) eloquently emphasizes the evolutionary signiﬁcance of pre-attentive
processes: ‘the most precious niches of our inner world owe their exis-
tence to the emergence in evolution of the primitive, elementary orienting
reﬂex.’
For my purposes, Pylyshyn (2000) sums up the facts well:
the most primitive contact that the visual system makes with the world (the
contact that precedes the encoding of any sensory properties) is a contact
with what have been termed visual objects or proto-objects ...As a result of
the deployment of focal attention, it becomes possible to encode the various
properties of the visual objects, including their location, color, shape and so
on. (Pylyshyn 2000, p. 206)12
This is basically still the conclusion held by neuroscientists, although
inevitably some complications have arisen and reservations need to be
expressed. In particular, there is evidence that the dorsal stream does reg-
ister some properties of objects, albeit at a level inaccessible to awareness.
This is not so surprising. The dorsal stream houses the attention-grabbing
mechanism, and there must be something about objects, as opposed to the
background, that grabs attention. I mention some of these complications
below.
Grill-Spector and Kanwisher (2005) got subjects to detect whether a
quickly presented gray-scale photograph contained a picture of an object
or was merely ‘texture’, and simultaneously to ‘categorize’ or ‘identify’
such objects, if they detected them. For gross ‘category’ judgements,
11
A saccade is a movement of the eyes.
12
There are some similarities between the ‘proto-objects’ mentioned by Pylyshyn here,
and the metaphysical construct ‘thin particular’ or ‘bare particular’ suggested by the
philosopher Armstrong (1989). It is important to distinguish, however, between metaphys-
ical speculation about what exists in the world (ontology), and psychological hypotheses
about the mental states involved in focal attention and pre-attention.
102 The Origins of Meaning
such as birds versus vehicles, it was found, as the article’s subtitle has
it, ‘as soon as you know it is there, you know what it is’, contrary to
the point of the quotation from Pylyshyn above. For more ﬁne-grained
‘identiﬁcation’, such as between pigeons and other birds, ‘detection occurs
prior to identiﬁcation’ (Grill-Spector and Kanwisher 2005, p. 157). The
absolute distinction between ‘categorization’ and ‘identiﬁcation’ is a false
dichotomy; this is a continuum. The reaction time and accuracy results for
detection and categorization were strikingly similar, leading the authors
to conclude that ‘detection and categorization are linked’. This may have
been a ceiling eﬀect. A problem, as I see it, is that the subjects were
directed from the start to attend to a relatively small display immedi-
ately in front of them, so that ‘object detection’ here is not a matter
of focal attention being drawn to an object somewhere in the ﬁeld of
vision.
Fang and He (2005) exposed subjects to ‘invisible’ stimuli, in a clever
experiment, capitalizing on rivalry between the two eyes. When one eye
receives a clear bright picture of an object, and the other eye just receives
optic fuzz, the clear bright picture dominates, and the subject sees it.
Lateral dominance makes a diﬀerence, and given conﬂicting stimuli, the
picture seen by the subject’s dominant eye (usually the right) is the one
that the subject reports. The authors presented pictures of objects to sub-
jects in two conditions: a ‘visible’ condition and an ‘invisible’ condition.
In the invisible condition, the dominant eye was shown high-contrast
dynamic optic noise, i.e. lots of brightly coloured or dark pixels shifting
about, while the non-dominant eye was shown a very faint image of a sta-
tionary object. In this condition, the faint picture was ‘invisible’ or inac-
cessible to conscious awareness. But fMRI imaging nevertheless showed a
broad distinction between pictures of faces and pictures of tools. Invisible
images of tools, but not of faces, evoked activity in the dorsal stream.
The brain of any vertebrate is enormously more complex than any
simple dichotomy between two kinds of logical terms can capture. Schol-
ars and researchers have for centuries been investigating cognition from
diﬀerent starting points and using diﬀerent tools. The philosophical tra-
dition, including logic, has gained deserved prestige in analysing thought
without fancy mechanical or electronic instruments. For human thought,
analysis in terms of a fundamental dichotomy between predicate and
argument terms (largely due to Frege) enabled great strides to be made
in describing the semantic relations between human sentences, and their
relations to an outside world. Neuroscience didn’t impinge on the logical
tradition, because it had not reached a suﬃciently detailed level.
Animals form Proto-propositions 103
Interestingly, given the connection between logic and neuroscience that
I have proposed, some detailed problems of description and analysis are
shared, or intertranslatable, between the two disciplines. For instance,
in discussing the separate functions of the ‘where’ (dorsal) and ‘what’
(ventral) streams, it is generally stated that the ventral stream delivers
properties of the object attended to, while the dorsal stream delivers its
location. But isn’t location itself a property? Correspondingly, in logic, the
existence of an object is expressed by an ‘existential quantiﬁer’, ∃, rather
than by a predicate, but a classic question asked in the theory of logic
is ‘Isn’t existence a predicate?’ This question has occupied philosophers
from ancient times to the present, including Aristotle, Avicenna, Aquinas,
Hume, Kant, and Quine; see Miller (2002) for a comprehensive survey. It
is fair to say that the majority of philosophers have concluded that the
existence of an object is not one its properties, in the sense that its shape,
colour, or size is. This is consonant with excluding the egocentric location
of an object in the perceptual space of a perceiver from the properties
delivered for it by the ventral stream. (In many languages, there is an
etymological connection between existence and spatial location, as with
English There is ....)
It is now possible to see connections across the divide between disci-
plines. Aha, so the logicians, in the case of predicate-argument structure at
least, were onto something that has approximate neuropsychological cor-
relates, always keeping in mind that what we can ﬁnd in the brain is only
structured neural activity. The interdisciplinary task is to see how such
structured neural activity can plausibly be interpreted as encoding some
theoretical construct that had been thought of outside of neuroscience.
4.3 local and global attention to objects and scenes
The arguments in these sections are driven by the goal of articulating a
possible bridge between formal logic and neuroscience. More speciﬁcally, I
am trying here to consolidate the two logico-neural links already claimed.
These are: (1) the link between dorsal stream, pre-attentional processes,
which assign mental indices to a small number of tracked objects, and the
individual variables of logic, w, x, y, z, which I assume here to be in very
limited supply—only up to four available at any one time; and (2) the link
between ventral stream recognition areas, where categorization of tracked
objects takes place, and logical one-place predicates. The restriction to
one-place predicates is necessary for this analogy, because categorization
only aﬀects one object at a time; typically the small number of objects
104 The Origins of Meaning
tracked in a scene belong to mutually exclusive categories (e.g. person,
artefact, plant), and so there would be conﬂict in trying to pass infor-
mation to the recognition areas from several diﬀerent objects at once.
Once objects have been noted and categorized, for as long as the animal
is ‘globally attending’ to the whole scene, it is possible to keep the assign-
ments of categories to visual indices current in the mind, until they are
ditched when attention switches to another scene. But these assignments
are to single indices, corresponding to single objects in the environment.
Thus the requirement, so far, to deal only in terms of one-place predicates.
But clearly there is a diﬃculty here, because the minds of animals and
humans can grasp relations between objects, such as mother-of, domi-
nate, eat, groom. And in speaking of animals taking in whole scenes,
we presume it is possible for animals to categorize events of diﬀerent
kinds diﬀerently. Thus a baboon can distinguish a chasing event from a
grooming event, and both of these from an eating event. In considering
events such as these, clearly we are dealing with entities at diﬀerent levels:
the level of the whole event and the level of the participating objects.
Events are dynamic, involving change, but static scenes can also involve
several participant objects. Thus a chimpanzee can distinguish between a
ball being on a table and a ball being under a table. How can we reconcile
complex multi-participant events and scenes with the idea of attention
delivering one-place judgements about the object(s) of attention?
The answer lies in a distinction between two types of attention recog-
nized in the psychological literature: local attention and global attention.
The general idea of the distinction between global and local attention is
given by Treisman (2004, p. 541): ‘An initial rapid pass through the visual
hierarchy provides the global framework and gist of the scene and primes
competing identities through the features that are detected. Attention is
then focused back to early areas to allow a serial check of the initial
rough bindings and to form the representations of objects and events
that are consciously experienced.’ The theory was pioneered by Navon
(1977), whose title, ‘Forest before the trees’, expresses the phenomenon
vividly. He summarizes: ‘global structuring of a visual scene precedes
analysis of local features’ (p. 353) and ‘global processing is a necessary
stage of perception prior to more ﬁne-grained analysis’ (p. 371). A slightly
diﬀerent theory, still consistent with my overall purpose, is suggested
by Humphreys (1998). He provides evidence for diﬀerent, and parallel,
visual processes of between-object coding and within-object coding. The
coordination of the two levels of processing, one attending to elements
of what is attended to by the other, is common to both theories, and is
Animals form Proto-propositions 105
what will be exploited for proto-semantic purposes here. For expository
simplicity, I will stick with the ‘global/local’ terminology.
Global attention takes in a scene very quickly and can note features in
it, but does not necessarily bind these features consistently to the right
objects. Treisman and Schmidt (1982) showed that in scenes presented
very brieﬂy, observers could often detect the presence of features, for
example, red, yellow, a square, a triangle, but would incorrectly report
their conjunction: a brieﬂy presented scene with a red circle and a yellow
triangle might be reported as containing a yellow circle.
The perceptual distinction between global and local attention shows
a kind of ‘doublethink’ that is alien to logic. Animals capable of this
two-level functioning are actually using two separate systems, one par-
allel and one serial, in tandem, and integrating their outputs into a
single whole representation. Global attention directed at a whole scene
delivers one or more monadic (one-place) judgements about the scene;
in tandem, local attention to the participants delivers monadic judge-
ments about them. It is in this sense that it is possible to claim that
concepts traditionally held to be relational are monadic: they apply to
a single scene, which in its turn, when analysed at a diﬀerent level of
attention, may contain several participants. These claims will be ﬂeshed
out in more detail in Chapter 5.4; a few quick examples can be given
now. The idea is, for example, that an animal seeing one animal groom-
ing another perceives this whole scene, via its global attention system,
as a ‘grooming scene’, a scene in which grooming is happening. Thus,
the predicate groom is a one-place predicate that applies to a scene (or
event). Within this scene the observing animal registers, via its concur-
rent local attention system, two participants, each individually taking
a particular role. As another example, an animal seeing a lizard on a
rock globally perceives an ‘on-ness situation’, with two participant objects
tracked by the local attention system. Thus on, or some other appropriate
translation, is a one-place predicate applying to the whole situation or
scene, and the asymmetric participation of the rock and the lizard can
be expressed by individual (one-place) properties of each. These ideas
will be developed in the next chapter; for the moment it is interesting to
explore the psychological evidence for the global/local distinction in more
detail.
The mechanism which (sketchily and perhaps inaccurately) takes in a
whole scene at a rapid glance is attributed with the power of parallel
search for single features. Thus the red objects in a display can be quickly
identiﬁed without much interfering eﬀect of the number of distracting
106 The Origins of Meaning
non-red objects also in the display, so subjects cannot be inspecting each
object in the display in sequence. The target objects ‘pop out’ from a paral-
lel search of the whole display. But search for conjunctions of features (e.g.
ﬁnding all the red squares) is aﬀected proportionally by the number of
distractors, so it seems that subjects must need to focus attention on each
object in turn (serial search) to check whether they satisfy the conjunction
of features (Treisman and Gelade 1980). Nakayama and Silverman (1986)
extended these results of Anne Treisman and her colleagues to conjunc-
tions of colour and motion. They write: ‘the visual system is incapable
of conducting a parallel search over two stimulus dimensions simul-
taneously’ (p. 264). (This widely accepted account has been shown to
have complicating, but not falsifying, factors by Carrasco and Yeshurum
1998.)
The phenomenon of left spatial neglect13
can be seen as a disorder of
global attention. In this condition, patients consistently fail to notice,
or direct focal attention to, objects on their left. The condition aﬀects
not only vision but also tactile, proprioceptive, and auditory modalities
(Vallar 1998). Experiments with such patients show that they are capable
of attending to individual objects in (the right side of) a scene; they can
pick out targeted objects and mark them, but on the right side only. The
psychological literature often relates this condition to attention, but not
explicitly to global attention. It is clear, however, that the deﬁcit is not
a problem with mechanisms of local attention: ‘Whereas true visual ﬁeld
cuts (or other sensory losses) cannot be alleviated by directing attention
to the aﬀected region, performance for otherwise neglected stimuli can
often be improved by cuing covert14
attention there (Posner et al. 1984)’
(Driver et al. 1999, p. 595). Attention is, of course, an extremely complex
topic, and there are many poorly understood subtleties in the various
deﬁcits that have been observed. But at the gross level in which we are
interested here, left neglect phenomena indicate a separation between two
mechanisms, one for taking in a whole scene (in normal patients) and
another for attending to speciﬁc objects within that scene. Most inter-
estingly, the condition also aﬀects memory and imagery, indicating some
carry-over from perception to more permanent cognitive representational
capacity.
13
See Driver et al. (1999) for an excellent survey of the spatial neglect condition.
14
Covert attention is attention to an object or location without concomitant shift of
eyegaze or head position. Think of a teacher watching a miscreant pupil at the side of a
classroom out of the corner of her eye.
Animals form Proto-propositions 107
A dissociation between the superﬁcial, gross taking in of a scene and
the registering of all the scene’s major details as reﬂected in conjunc-
tions of features associated with each object is seen in simultanagnosia.
Some patients with this disorder are permanently in the state that normal
subjects are in when they are presented with a scene very brieﬂy. They
are aware of the presence of features, but cannot tell what features go
with each other, or with which object. Informal brief descriptions of
simultanagnosia can be puzzling, and must be treated with caution. It
is commonly described as an inability to see more than one object at a
time, with concomitant failure to take in a whole scene. A more careful
deﬁnition is ‘a failure to perceive multiple concurrent stimuli, sometimes
even for superimposed objects (e.g., seeing the examiner’s face but not
his or her glasses, or vice versa), with awareness shifting only slowly
between distinct objects or object parts’ (Driver et al. 1999, pp. 597–598).
In some sense, simultanagnosics do take in a whole scene, but only at a
superﬁcial level, failing to integrate all the component objects coherently.
Simultanagnosia is typically associated with ocular apraxia, or ‘psychic
paralysis of gaze’, an inability to direct voluntary eye movements, such as
are involved in tracking objects in a scene, already mentioned several times
in previous sections. That this is not always the problem is shown by Rizzo
and Hurtig (1987), who tracked eye movements in three simultanagnosic
patients and found them to be normal. Laeng et al. (1999, p. 109) made the
alternative suggestion that their simultanagnosic patient AMA’s ‘problem
could be a consequence of the loss of multiple spatial indices (whose
purpose is in fact to direct attention)’. Dehaene and Cohen (1994, p. 958)
likewise identify the problem as ‘a fundamental inability to use spatial tags
to keep track of previously explored locations’.
Farah (1990) gives an extended and careful discussion of two diﬀerent
types of simultanagnosia, dorsal and ventral, which are not often distin-
guished in the literature. While the symptoms are very similar, they are not
identical, and the conditions are associated with injury to quite diﬀerent
parts of the brain, as the terms suggest. Both types of simultanagnosic
have trouble integrating multi-participant scenes into wholes, but their
diﬃculties lie in diﬀerent parts of the various subsystems to be integrated,
according to Farah. By her account, dorsal simultanagnosics cannot see
more than one object at a time, whereas ventral simultanagnosics cannot
recognize more than one object at a time.
When [Luria’s] patient [a dorsal simultanagnosic] was shown a rectangle made
up of six dots, the patient was unable to count the dots. Recall that dorsal
108 The Origins of Meaning
simultanagnosics cannot count objects because this requires seeing more than
one object at a time. In contrast, this patient could see the rectangle made
up of the six dots, as well as recognize other geometric forms drawn with
broken lines. Apparently the patient could view the stimulus as dots, and
hence see a single dot at a time, or he could view it as a rectangle, and hence
see the entire rectangle. In the latter case, the patient was still unable to count
the dots, presumably because once he started to count the dots, he would
again be seeing them as dots and see only one at a time. In other words,
the organization of the dots into a rectangle did not increase the patient’s
attentional capacity to more than one object; rather it allowed the patient
to view the set of dots as a single object. An implication of this is that the
attentional system of dorsal simultanagnosics is sensitive to voluntary ‘top-
down’ determinants of what constitutes an object.
(Farah, 1990, pp. 22–23)
(This relates to the dorsal simultanagnosic patient discussed in Luria
1959.) By contrast, ‘Although ventral simultanagnosics cannot recognize
multiple objects, they diﬀer from dorsal simultanagnosics in that they can
see multiple objects. This is evident in their ability to count scattered
dots (Kinsbourne and Warrington 1962), as well as in their ability to
manipulate objects and walk around without bumping into obstacles’
(Farah 1990, p. 25).
In terms of our earlier discussion of individual variable arguments of
predicates, or temporary indices assigned by the visual system to objects,
from a limited available set of four (w, x, y, z), some simultanagnosics
seem only to have one index available to them. To repeat, Laeng et al.
(1999, p. 109) suggest that their patient AMA’s ‘problem could be a
consequence of the loss of multiple spatial indices (whose purpose is
in fact to direct attention)’. AMA had most brain damage within the
ventral system, a complicating fact, as her symptoms resemble those of
dorsal simultanagnosics. Laeng et al. (1999) hypothesize that the damage
may have resulted in some kind of disconnection between the dorsal and
ventral systems.
Simultanagnosia is reﬂected pervasively in the suﬀerers’ everyday lives.
Farah cites Luria again: ‘looking out a window, Luria et al. (1963)’s
patient was able to see one car at a time, saying, “I know there are many
but I see only one” (p. 222)’ (Farah 1990, p. 18). Farah (1990, pp. 18–
19) cites several other cases (from Godwin-Austen 1965 and Tyler 1968)
of patients being shown pictures of familiar scenes and failing to ‘make
sense of them as a whole’. Boutsen and Humphreys (1999) report on
a simultanagnosic patient, GK, who was ‘typically unable to interpret
Animals form Proto-propositions 109
complex thematic pictures (e.g. the Boston “cookie theft” picture was
described just in terms of the people present; cf. Goodglass and Kaplan
1983)’ (Boutsen and Humphreys 1999, p. 659). GK, then, lacked the
ability to form a complete representation of a scene, including all the who-
did-what-to-whom information regularly conveyed by normal speakers in
sentences; but he could identify the participant persons (without being
able to describe how they participated). A general conclusion reached by
the authors is that ‘it appears that GK has diﬃculty in selecting between
local and more global descriptions when they conﬂict’ (p. 669). Normal
adult humans have no such problem in shifting back and forth between
local and global attention, so that the total representation of a scene is
synthesized from both its gross overall conﬁguration and the conjunctions
of features associated with each of its constituent objects.
Striking evidence of the dissociation between global and local visual
processing is seen in the diﬀerence between Williams Syndrome and
Down Syndrome subjects. ‘Mentally retarded subjects with Williams Syn-
drome are considerably more impaired in global relative to local analy-
sis, whereas subjects with Down Syndrome display the opposite pattern’
(Bihrle et al. 1989).
[Experimental] items were composed of local components that together con-
stituted a global form (i.e. a big D constituted of little Y’s). ...When asked
to draw the designs, both groups failed, but in distinctively diﬀerent ways.
In these paradigms, Williams syndrome subjects typically produced only the
local forms sprinkled across the page and were impaired at producing the
global forms. Subjects with Down syndrome showed the opposite pattern;
they tended to produce the global forms without the local forms (Fig. 4,
bottom). This was true whether subjects reproduced forms from memory
(after a ﬁve-second delay) or whether they were asked to copy the form placed
in front of them. In perceptual matching tasks as well, Williams syndrome
subjects showed a local bias. These results suggest an unusual processing
pattern in Williams syndrome, a bias towards attention to detail at the expense
of the whole (Wang et al. 1995; Bellugi et al. 1994; Bihrle et al. 1989).
(Bellugi et al. 1997, p. 338)
The relevant part of Bellugi et al. (1997)’s ‘Fig. 4’ is reproduced as Figure
4.1 below. The global/local diﬀerence between the two syndromes is very
striking.
In normal adult humans, the relationship between local and global
attention is controlled and subject to direction by higher-level goals.
Depending on what we are looking for, or interested in, normals can direct
attention to a whole broad scene, or to some speciﬁc object in that scene.
110 The Origins of Meaning
Y Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Local/
Global
Task
Model DNS: Global
WMS: Local. Fractionated
Figure 4.1 Williams Syndrome and Down Syndrome subjects’ copied draw-
ings reﬂect local and global emphasis respectively.
Some brain-damaged patients can readily recognize short words, but have
trouble counting the letters in them; this shows an inability to individuate
the parts of a whole stimulus. Other patients have a converse problem.
These cases are reported in Humphreys (1998).
Having focused on one object, normal observers can ‘zoom in deeper’,
treating the object as the scene and focusing on its parts. This potentially
recursive zooming in is limited in practice by the small size of the subparts.
(Microscopes were invented to overcome this limitation.) Topdown expec-
tations about the things we are supposed to be attending to play a part in
priming the appropriate level of attention. Deciding whether we like a new
wallpaper design, we typically keep to a global level of attention to the
whole pattern; but given a page of print, we immediately plunge to a level
of attention to the words on the page, and sometimes to the individual
letters. Most higher animals have global and local attention systems and
can shift between them, so this setup is ancient.
Humans can shift attention between parts and wholes, as shown in experi-
ments with complex hierarchical stimuli, such as larger, global letters con-
structed from smaller, local letters. In these experiments, a target stimulus
appears at either the local or the global level, with a distractor at the other
level. A shift of attention between levels is said to be demonstrated through
a form of priming, whereby targets at one level are presented with a higher
probability than at the other level. This base-rate type of priming can facilitate
speed of responding to targets, as seen in shorter reaction times to targets at
the primed level. (Fremouw et al. 1998, p. 278)
Cerella (1980, 1986) concluded from experiments on pigeons inspecting
objects that they do not attend to the global relationships between parts or
features of the objects. To the contrary, Kirkpatrick (2001) argues strongly
against the lack of any global visual mechanisms in pigeons, on the basis
of ordinary observation and further experiments.
It is diﬃcult to imagine how an organism that ﬂies about in the world could
successfully navigate without using any information about the spatial organ-
ization of the surrounding environment. The pigeon actually possesses two
perceptual systems: (1) a long-range guidance system; and (2) a shorter-range
Animals form Proto-propositions 111
(food) detection system. It is possible that a particulate mechanism may oper-
ate on the grain-seeking system, which is invoked when closer range, smaller
objects are being detected and identiﬁed. Perhaps, the long-range guidance
system does make use of global organizational properties of the surrounding
environment. (Kirkpatrick 2001, Section 1)
Fremouw et al. (1998) found that pigeons, as well as humans, can shift
their attention between local and global levels. In a later experiment, they
found that pigeons can shift their level of attention very fast: ‘pigeons can
shift attention between local and global levels of perceptual analysis in
seconds. . . . [P]igeons, like humans, can display highly dynamic stimulus-
driven shifts of local/global attention’ (Fremouw et al. 2002, p. 233).
Given that both pigeons and humans can do it, there is presumably no
problem in assuming that apes closely related to humans also have this
ability, and that our primate ancestors also had both local and global
visual attention systems and were able to shift ﬂuently between them.
There are, however, diﬀerences of detail among primates in the division
of labour between global and local attention. In a series of publications
(Deruelle and Fagot 1997; Fagot and Deruelle 1997; Deruelle and Fagot
1998; Fagot and Tomonaga 1998), Joel Fagot and his colleagues have
discovered that baboons tend to attend immediately at a local level, by
contrast with humans, for whom the ﬁrst visual pass is at a global level.
‘[D]ata from baboons, chimpanzees and humans suggest a phylogenetic
trend in the way compound stimuli are processed’ (Fagot and Tomon-
aga 1998, p. 3), with humans favouring a global pass, at least as a ﬁrst
approximation. These studies also found lateralization eﬀects, with global
attention showing a right hemisphere advantage (stimuli from left visual
ﬁeld); this is consistent with the phenomena of left spatial neglect, seen as
a disorder of global processing.
An intriguing fact about the distinction between global and local visual
processing is a tendency to emphasize the former in happier moods and
the latter in sadder moods (Gasper and Clore 2002).
Normal adult humans can deploy the two visual attention systems,
global and local, ﬂuently in tandem, rapidly noting the major participants
in a complex scene, together with their salient features, and conﬂating all
the information gleaned into an apparently seamless whole. The whole
mentally represented scene is still, however, highly underrepresentative
of the actual scene in the world. Studies in ‘change blindness’ show
that normal people fail to notice very obvious (after they are pointed
out) changes between two consecutively presented scenes. One sensational
example is reported by Simons and Chabris (1999): in this study about
112 The Origins of Meaning
half of the observers failed to notice a woman in a gorilla suit walk for
ﬁve seconds among a group of six basketball players. The observers had
been instructed to watch the dynamic scene and count the passes made by
either the black or the white team. Evidently, close attention to the players
prevented them from seeing the gorilla! See Simons and Levin (1997) for
a review of change blindness. The high fallibility of attention to a scene
is also notoriously evident in the unreliability of eyewitness testimony to
crimes (see Wells and Olson 2003 for a survey).
Finally, here is the main idea that I want to develop from this review
of global and local attention. Property judgements, corresponding to
one-place predicates, can be made of a whole scene, as well as of the
individual objects in it. Quick global attention delivers such properties;
on subsequent focal attention to individual objects, as in normal people,
some of these properties may be reassigned to the constituent objects of
the scene, but some may be kept as applying to the scene as a whole. Here
is some evidence.
Recall an earlier quote from Nelson Cowan, about subitizing numerosi-
ties up to about ‘the magical number 4’, repeated here: ‘it seems that a
focal attention strategy involving eye movements is important for visual
enumeration of over 4 items, but not at or below 4 items, the aver-
age number that subjects may be able to hold in the limited-capacity
store at one time’ (Cowan 2001). The implication is that the number of
participants in a visual scene with four or fewer salient objects can be
taken in at a glance by the global attention process. Given a scene with
three objects, quick global attention can discern its ‘threeness’. That is, a
(numerical) predicate is associated with the scene as a whole, by the global
attention mechanism. This is consistent with global attention involving
parallel processing of a scene in normal people. This is backed up by
a study of ﬁve simultanagnosics by Dehaene and Cohen (1994). They
write:
Numerosity naming time and errors were measured in 5 simultanagnosic
patients who suﬀered from severe diﬃculties in serial counting. Although
these patients made close to 100% errors in quantifying sets comprising more
than 3 items, they were excellent at quantifying sets of 1, 2, and sometimes 3
items. Their performances in visual search tasks suggested that they suﬀered
from a deﬁcit of serial visual exploration, due to a fundamental inability to
use spatial tags to keep track of previously explored locations. The present
data suggest that the patients’ preserved subitizing abilities were based not
on serial processing but rather on a parallel algorithm dedicated to small
numerosities. (Dehaene and Cohen 1994, p. 958)
Animals form Proto-propositions 113
In these patients, global parallel-processing attention can deliver the ‘one-
ness’, ‘twoness’, or ‘threeness’ of a whole scene, but they cannot serially
attend to individual objects in the scene. By contrast, Laeng et al. (1999)’s
simultanagnosic patient AMA seemed to need to do a serial search to
enumerate objects in the normal subitizing range 2-4, according to the
statistical test applied. As mentioned earlier, this patient may be atypical,
having damage in a ventral region not usually associated with parallel
search.
Sometimes a scene may only consist of a single object. Here again evi-
dence from simultanagnosia is relevant. ‘Simultanagnosics generally have
diﬃculty identifying objects in a scene, although they may successfully
identify objects when they are presented alone’ (McMullen et al. 2000,
p. 407). This can be interpreted as applying a judgement to a whole
scene (which simultanagnosics can do) which just happens to contain a
single object. In the one-participant case the distinction between scene
and object is neutralized. Visually, a one-participant scene is an object.
We have concentrated on the global/local attention in vision, but paral-
lel eﬀects can be found in audition as well. In a noisy room, for instance,
one can concentrate on one particular voice, or just take in the whole
noisy scene—the ‘cocktail-party eﬀect’ (Cherry 1953). Listening to an
orchestra, one can pay global attention to the whole orchestral sound, or
concentrate attention on the sound of one instrument. Janata et al. (2002,
p. 121), reporting fMRI studies of listening to complex musical ‘scenes’,
state: ‘direct comparisons of the listening conditions showed signiﬁcant
diﬀerences between attending to single timbres (instruments) and attend-
ing across multiple instruments’. The features used for segregating out one
particular sound stream include rhythm, pitch, and location of the source
(Bregman 1990).
The next chapter will capitalize on the global/local distinction to advo-
cate a notation for the representation of scenes in which all predicates
are one-place, some applying globally to the whole scene, and others
applying locally to speciﬁc objects with a scene. This builds on the theme
developed in this chapter of the evolutionary basis of proposition-like
representations in the perception of scenes.
4.4 animal truth, reference, and sense
In Chapter 1, I argued against an essential connection between concepts
and beliefs, and language, so that we can reasonably speak of animals
having certain kinds of concepts and beliefs, even though they have no
114 The Origins of Meaning
language. If we dislodge the idea of a logical proposition from any neces-
sary connection with language, then it is possible to ﬁnd activity correlat-
ing with propositional structure, of the required predicate-argument form,
in non-linguistic animals’ brains. In previous sections, we have considered
(1) how an animal can store generalized semantic information about the
categories of objects that it interacts with, and their component features;
(2) how an animal can represent in its mind an event or situation involving
up to four participating objects, of which it is keeping visual track, and
(3) an argument that the tracking (or pre-attentional) dorsal mechanism
combines with categorizing ventral mechanisms to give an analogue, in
structured neural activity, of predicate-argument structure. These capaci-
ties, taken together, are enough to produce immediate perception-bound
representations with the same structure, and same relation to the world,
as propositions discussed by philosophers. Adopting a familiar logical
notation, we can, for example, represent part of what a baboon perceives
when it contemplates a scene containing a crouching lion and a rock as
lionbaboon(x) & crouchbaboon(x) & rockbaboon(y)
The subscripts indicate that these are baboon predicates/concepts, not (of
course) human ones; mostly I will omit such relativizing subscripts, but
only for expository convenience. But we can expect the baboon’s concepts
to have quite similar extensions to ours, as it lives in the same world
and has a similar body. The individual variables x and y stand, in our
notation, for the mental indices of these objects in the baboon’s brain as it
tracks them (probably realized as activity in its posterior parietal cortex).
The observant reader will have noticed that these variables are unbound
by any quantiﬁer; I assume an implicit existential quantiﬁer, ∃, so that
roughly translating what this baboon sees into English, we would get
There’s a crouching lion and there’s a rock. The formula above represents a
compound proposition formed by the conjunction of three simple propo-
sitions (the order of the three conjuncts is immaterial). These ideas will be
developed in a later section. As an animal such as a primate has no trouble
tracking several objects at a time, and registering their properties, there is
no problem in attributing a (limited) capacity for logical conjunction to
such an animal.
Philosophers and logicians require of sentences expressing propositions
that they be capable of being true or false. Thus Water is wet and I
am writing this book express propositions and are true15
; Water is dry
15
Well, the latter was true when I wrote it, but isn’t when you are reading it.
Animals form Proto-propositions 115
and You are writing this book express propositions and are false. In the
evolutionary approach taken here, truth is fundamentally not a relation
between sentences and the world but between non-linguistic mental rep-
resentations and the world. We can speak informally of someone having
in their mind a ‘true picture’ of the world or of some situation. Similarly,
when a cat is watching a bird, and acting as it usually does (crouching
low, perhaps muttering), it seems reasonable to say that the cat has a true
belief that the thing it is watching belongs in some mental category which
we will label preycat.
Again to emphasize the point that animal concepts need not
correspond to human concepts, we could fool a cat all of the time into
acting towards some non-prey stimulus the same way it acts towards
things in its preycat category, without it ever changing its behaviour; in
this case we have to say, on the evidence, that the dummy object falls
under the cat’s preycat concept. From our point of view, but not from the
cat’s, the cat’s concept is disjunctive. Contrariwise, where an animal has
greater discriminatory powers than a human, and corresponding more
highly diﬀerentiated behaviour, our human concepts would seem crudely
disjunctive from the animal’s point of view (if only it could study them).
There is a lively discussion of such matters in Chapter 14 of Dennett
(1995).
Truth is based on some standard. In the case of human sentences, the
standard rests on conventional public agreement about the denotations
of predicates. If I say ‘My pen is on my desk’, the truth of this depends
in part on the somehow agreed range of the words pen and desk. If there
is nothing on my desk that falls in the range we agree to call pens, the
utterance is false. You and I share the same understanding, reinforced
by frequent communicative interaction in the same large society, of what
counts as a pen, and a desk, and so on. In the case of animals, of course,
there is no such public standard. We are talking about the possible truth
(correspondence to reality), not of public expressions, but of an animal’s
inner mental representations of the world. But glib mention of ‘reality’
will not do, for the world may present itself to an animal in diﬀerent
packages from the way a human perceives it. We know, for example, that
dogs are red-green colourblind. I submit that we can, nevertheless, get
glimpses of an animal’s possibly alternative segmentation of the world by
observing its usual behaviour, in and out of the laboratory, and allowing, at
least in the case of higher animals, that it has goals and acts purposefully
much of the time. This usual behaviour is the standard on which a private
conception of truth is based. Investigating this kind of truth is much
116 The Origins of Meaning
harder work and much more tentative than judging the truth of a simple
declarative sentence expressing some concrete fact about nearby middle-
sized objects. But it is possible.
In these terms, it is possible for an animal to have a false belief. We
can present a cat with a fake stimulus, so that it acts as if it is seeing
a bird, but then ‘realizes’ that the stimulus is not a bird, and changes its
behaviour accordingly (stops crouching, looks bored). For the time before
the change of behaviour, it seems reasonable to say that the cat has a false
belief, believing wrongly that the thing it was watching belonged to the
feline mental category preycat.
Of course, the animal need never actually realize that it has a false
belief. There are two senses to this. One involves metacognition: there
is no reason to credit a non-human animal with any kind of conscious
awareness corresponding to the human idea expressed by Oh, I was wrong.
By the criteria used here, one could, in principle, discover that a non-
human animal had some concept of having made a mistake. This could
happen if, under a range of diﬀerent conditions where the animal had
entertained a false belief and then corrected it, it behaved in a regular and
systematic way. For instance, if we always observed the same peculiar gait
or pose after a cat had (a) walked into a glass window believing there to
be no obstacle, (b) stopped acting frightened on recognizing the human
ﬁgure approaching, (c) stopped lapping a white liquid on realizing it is
something other than milk, then we could claim that the cat actually had
some higher-level concept of the falsehood of its own (previous) beliefs.
This level of metacognition is either nonexistent or very rare in non-
human animals (but recall the backing-oﬀ behaviour of Keddy-Hector
et al. 2005’s piglets mentioned earlier).
The other point in saying that an animal need never actually realize
that it has a false belief is that the ‘realization’, indicated by a change in
behaviour, is not criterial for a theorist’s claim that the animal did indeed
have the false belief. The animal enticed to a sudden death by a lure or bait
does not realize its mistake; nevertheless it did entertain a false belief. So
when a cat, on looking at a wind-blown leaf, entertains the representation
mousecat(x), it is grasping a proposition, which it believes at the time
(seeing is believing), and which we can ‘objectively’ from our Godlike
vantage point assign a particular truth value (in this case, false). It must
be emphasized here that when a human investigator judges an animal
to have a false belief, the judgement should be made in terms of a well-
rounded consideration of the animal’s usual behaviour, and not in terms
of any human category. When pressed for time, we all make mistakes,
Animals form Proto-propositions 117
and animals are no diﬀerent. If a cat persisted in always treating wind-
blown leaves exactly like mice, we should conclude that it has a mental
category diﬀerent from any of ours, and not that it entertained a false
belief. But when a thing twitches momentarily, and you only catch sight
of it out of the corner of one eye, anyone, even a cat, can be mistaken,
and for a while have a false belief about the thing. By contrast, a stickle-
back that consistently tries to attack anything red, including the postvan
outside the window, cannot be credited with any concept of rival male
stickleback. It never seems to realize the diﬀerence between diﬀerent red
stimuli.
Cases like those just discussed are admittedly very problematic, as they
involve trying to map the boundaries of an animal’s concepts. But other
kinds of facts not so closely bound up with categorization are more clearly
amenable to truth assignments. In the experiments on object permanence
reviewed in Chapter 2, animals watched objects going behind screens, and
then searched for them behind the screens. The basis for the psychologists’
experiments was an assumption that an animal’s mental representation
could or could not correspond to reality. It seems perfectly reasonable to
say that a puppy in such an experiment believes that the ball is behind the
screen. If (we know that) the ball has been surreptitiously removed, the
puppy has a false belief about the location of the ball. If the ball is still
behind the screen, the puppy has a true belief.
Now take the philosopher’s other relation between language and the
world, namely reference. It would seem natural and consistent to claim
that the neural index in the cat’s posterior parietal cortex (presumably,
if it’s like a primate) which the individual variable x in this mentally
entertained representation stands for refers to the wind-blown leaf, out
there in the world. The kind of reference involved is deictic, or indexical,
reference, as with the English demonstrative pronouns this and that. The
mental index x refers to one particular object for just the duration of an
episode of attention.
It also seems reasonable to claim that a relation of denotation holds
between mental categories and the classes of object and event that they
denote in the outside world. This is not a deictic relation, as it does not
vary from one situation to another. A class of objects or events is denoted
by a pattern of potential neural activity, which is consistently activated
when events or objects from that class are encountered (or imagined).
If animal non-linguistic mental representations can be true, and if parts
of them can refer and denote, one might ask whether there can be a
distinction, in non-linguistic minds, between sense and reference, in the
118 The Origins of Meaning
spirit of Frege (1892). Frege’s classic example involved an object (the
planet Venus) seen at diﬀerent times of day, and described with reference
to the time of observation variously as either the Morning Star or the
Evening Star. These two expressions have diﬀerent senses, but the same
referent. The example is patently linguistic, involving a diﬀerence between
two noun phrases. But could there be a corresponding phenomenon in the
minds of animals prior to language? Possibly there could, and I will sketch
this possibility below.
An animal could conceivably encounter the same entities in completely
diﬀerent types of situation, and develop diﬀerent concepts triggered by
the diﬀerent contexts. For example, our animal might experience a cer-
tain type of predator charging silently in daylight often enough to build
up a mostly visual concept of this predator type. The same predators
might also operate by night, using a diﬀerent technique, creeping up on
their prey from behind with a loud roar, and our animal (if it escapes)
might build up a mostly auditory concept from this experience. Its motor
responses to these two experiences might be diﬀerent, too, adapted to
the diﬀerent day/night circumstances. In the terminology of Gallese and
Lakoﬀ (2005), the animal develops diﬀerent functional clusters, function-
ing as neurally realized units, corresponding to these diﬀerent experiences,
without making any connection between the two concepts, even though
(we know ex hypothesi that) the concepts denote the same class of entities.
In such a hypothetical case, it would seem reasonable to say that the ani-
mal has two diﬀerent mental concepts denoting the same external reality.
These could be seen as a non-linguistic analogue of Fregean senses. (For
Frege, senses were not mental entities, in line with his general avoidance of
psychologizing. Fodor (1998, pp. 15–22) replaces Frege’s term sense with
Mode of Presentation (MOP), and argues that, for Frege’s overall concep-
tion to work, MOPs must be mental entities. I agree, so, if you like, replace
sense above with MOP; in fact, I suppose that more superﬁcial readers of
Frege than Fodor have naturally taken Fregean senses to correspond to
something mental, even though Frege himself might have winced at such
an interpretation.)
But it seems likely that animals have also evolved a strong defence
mechanism tending to prevent such cases from arising. As mentioned
earlier, concept-formation involves generalization over stimuli occurring
in diﬀerent situations, for instance in diﬀerent lighting conditions, with
diﬀerent ambient smells and temperatures, at diﬀerent distances, from
diﬀerent angles, and possibly moving in diﬀerent ways. The vervet that
sees a leopard on diﬀerent occasions never has exactly the same sensory
Animals form Proto-propositions 119
experiences, but these diﬀerent experiences nevertheless trigger the same
concept. It is highly adaptive for an animal to be able to recognize the
same entity or class of entities under diﬀerent conditions. Another obvi-
ous example is colour: ‘It is remarkable that we see an object as having
a constant color even when viewed under a wide variety of illumination
conditions’ (Churchland 1986, p. 454). Judgement of an animal’s size has
also been shown to vary systematically as a function of the frequency of
the animal’s stride (Jokisch and Troje 2003). Fast-striding animals are seen
as relatively small, and slow-striding animals are judged to be relatively
big. Judgement of size, then, is not just a matter of the angle subtended
by an object at the retina. Jokisch and Troje (2003) did not investigate
this, but it may be presumed that a stimulus of a fast-striding animal
subtending a wide angle at the retina would be judged anomalously big,
or anomalously fast-striding. The judgements, put into words, would be
big for such a fast-striding animal or fast-striding for such a big animal. It is
well known that humans can make context-dependent judgements of size,
such as ‘short for a basketball player’ or ‘tall for a jockey’. Sarris (1998)
has shown that chickens can be trained to make such context-dependent
size judgements, and to develop internal ‘frame-of-reference’ systems.
Sarris ﬁrst trained chickens to select large or small cubes, then habituated
them to diﬀering expectations about the size of cubes dependent on their
colour. Chickens were able to make perceptual judgements such as ‘big
for a red cube’ or ‘small for a green cube’ of cubes of the same size but
diﬀerent colour. (See also Sarris 1990, 1994, 2000a, 2000b. A monograph
(Sarris 2006) pulls much of this work together and sets it in a wider
context.)
Finally, don’t get me wrong: I am not proposing that anything like
linguistic representations are formed in an animal’s mind when it perceives
a scene. The logical formulae above purporting to represent what goes on
in the baboon’s or the cat’s brain are, of course, rough and ready. But they
do represent a claim that the animal (1) in tracking the objects of its atten-
tion, assigns mental indices to them, and (2) binds stored categories to
each of them (to a greater or lesser degree of detail, presumably, depending
on its arousal or motivation). The conventions for interpreting a symbolic
formula such as mousecat(x) are conventions applied by us human re-
searchers, not by the cat in whose brain the perceptual experience is
registered. We both deﬁne and interpret x in our notation as referring to
some object in the world outside the cat’s brain that it is attending to via
a tracking mental index or tag. And the non-linguistic predicate symbol
mousecat is our crude way of indicating the complex of neural ﬁrings that
120 The Origins of Meaning
happen when a cat mentally categorizes an object of attention in this way.
This approach is adopted by, among others, Gallese and Lakoﬀ (2005),
who describe a concept (grasping) in terms of a neural schema, with
various components such as ‘initial condition’ and ‘ﬁnal state’. Of this
description, they write: ‘we have written down symbols (e.g. ﬁnal state)
as our notation for functional clusters. This does not mean that we take
functional clusters themselves to be symbolic. The symbols are only our
names for functional clusters, which function as neurally realised units’
(Gallese and Lakoﬀ 2005, p. 469). In the terms used by Barsalou (1999),
representations formed inside an animal are ‘perceptual symbols’, and not
‘amodal symbols’. ‘Amodal symbol’ is Barsalou’s way of characterizing
an abstract mental entity devoid of any perceptual content, like the con-
ﬁgurations of representations in a computer whose only input from the
outside world is from a keyboard. I agree with Barsalou that concepts
have perceptual content, but, along with Gallese and Lakoﬀ, who also
argue against amodal symbols, add that they may have motor content,
too.
To emphasize the sensory-motor character of pre-linguistic concepts in
animals and babies, as I have here, is not to deny the existence of some
concepts, even in animals, which are not so directly captured in these
sensory-motor terms. In Chapter 2.1, in connection with reversal learning
tasks, I claimed that apes applied some concept of opposite. This is
indeed abstract and amodal, or at least much less easily related to primary
sensory-motor activations than concepts of objects and actions. Other
relational concepts that some animals are capable of, such as same and
different, seem likely to be similarly abstracted away from primary
sensory-motor activations. The attaching of public linguistic labels to
concepts adds some kind of abstract dimension to them, less directly
rooted in perception and action; this is a matter touched on brieﬂy earlier
and to be further explored in the sequel to this book.16
This chapter has begun to make the case that neural correlates exist, in
both humans and closely related non-humans, of something that linguists,
philosophers, and logicians would recognize as having the properties of
propositions. Propositional thought is sometimes held to be the special
preserve of humans, for example by Dummett (1993). Propositions have
size, shape, and function. To make the logical idea of a proposition ﬁt well
with primate psychology, we needed to cut logical propositions down to
size. This was done by showing how the practice, if not the theory, of logic
16
Volume 2 of Language in the Light of Evolution, titled Origins of Linguistic Form.
Animals form Proto-propositions 121
and linguistic semantics operates within the psychologically signiﬁcant
boundary set by the magical number 4, the limit of much mammalian
(including human) and avian subitizing. As to the shape of propositions,
it was argued that the two essential components of a simple logical propo-
sition, a predicate and one or more arguments, have neural correlates,
respectively, in the categorical judgements delivered by the ventral stream,
and in the indices available to the brain for tracking a small number of
attended-to objects, a process happening in the dorsal stream. In this
argument, it was essential to relate the neural indices to logical individual
variables, e.g. the logician’s x, y, and z, rather than individual constants,
e.g. john, paris, venus. Here, a diﬀerent kind of cutting down to size
is involved, from universal, or context-free, to context-dependent. The
scope of traditional visions of logic is universal, aiming to provide a
notation usable (by scientists) about objects known by, and familiar to,
all users in any context of use. Real animals, even humans, don’t know the
whole world; they constantly encounter fresh objects, and can categorize
them. In this vital function, individual variables, which can be attached
to whatever new objects come along, are the essential tool. So the version
of logic practically usable by living organisms is not omniscient, i.e. does
not have a known individual constant term for every individual object
in the world in which it lives. This idea will be followed up in the next
chapter.
Further concerning the shape of propositions, the approximate corre-
lation of their predicate-argument shape with neural ventral and dorsal
pathways required another cutting down to size, namely an elimination
of all but one-place predicates. This is perhaps a bold step, and will be
argued for in more detail in the next chapter. But I attempted to lay
the groundwork for this step in this chapter by highlighting a psycho-
logical distinction between global and local attention. The idea is that
global attention delivers one-place judgements about whole scenes, while
local attention delivers one-place judgements about the individual objects
within each scene, and the two processes, global and local, operate in
parallel. Thus, there is no conﬂict (I will argue) between the one-place-ness
of all predicates and the limit imposed by the magical number 4 on the
number of entities involved in a simple proposition. A maximum of about
four objects can be attended to in one scene; global attentional processes
categorize the scene, and local attentional processes simultaneously cat-
egorize the participant objects. See the next chapter for further develop-
ment of this argument, from the point of view of a linguistic semanticist.
Finally, as to the logical ‘function’ of propositions, the closest that logic
122 The Origins of Meaning
gets to any consideration of their function is their relation to an external
world, a relationship captured in the notions of reference and truth. The
last section of this chapter argued that it is still possible to maintain a
clear sense in which mental propositions, cut down to psychologically
motivated size and shape, have relations to the world which can reasonably
be called truth and reference.
C H A P T E R F I V E
Towards Human Semantics
This chapter will pursue the ideas of the previous chapter, from the per-
spective of a linguistic semanticist struggling to accommodate his familar,
and often quite rich, propositional notations to the rather severe psy-
chological constraints outlined there. The arguments here will inevitably
appeal to (or provoke) logicians and linguistic semanticists more than
psychologists, much less anthropologists. The arguments here are rather
an in-house business, concerned with the notation and terminology used
by linguists for describing the meanings of sentences. If linguistic seman-
tics is to relate to facts outside language itself, such as psychological and
neuroscientiﬁc facts, it needs to put its own house in order. So if you are
not a linguistic semanticist, peer in through the windows of this chapter,
to watch a linguist trying to do some house-tidying, making the place ﬁt
to receive visitors in the shape of ideas and facts from psychology and
neuroscience. If you are a linguistic semanticist, I expect plenty of argu-
ment about my proposed way of tidying the house. But don’t forget the
goal of establishing a framework for describing the continuous evolution
of representations of meanings from pre-human to human.
5.1 a parsimonious B E G R I F F S S C H R I F T for
proto-propositions
Now for something completely diﬀerent in ﬂavour, starting from the other
end of our topic.1
Investigation of meaning is a multidisciplinary business. It started,
millennia ago, with logical study based on language; way back then,
1
Using the term Begriﬀsschrift is meant to convey, not arrogance in borrowing Frege’s
term, but a similar intention to his, of devising a form of ‘concept writing’ for the represen-
tation of scenes. Frege would probably turn in his grave at the thought that anyone would
apply his methods to animal concepts.
124 The Origins of Meaning
public language itself was the only available guide to the workings of
the mind. And as public language is the most salient and pervasive outer
manifestation of the workings of the mind, any theory of meaning must
necessarily ﬁt naturally and as economically as possible with the facts of
language. It is also clear now that such a theory must ﬁt naturally and as
economically as possible with the machinery of the brain. So we have two
anchor points: brain and language.
‘The logician’s distrust of the psychological aspects of reasoning has led
to a de facto division of labor. The relationship between mind and rep-
resentation is considered the subject matter of psychology, that between
representation and world the subject matter of logic’ (Barwise 1999, p.
483). Notice that both logic and psychology are here supposed to be
concerned with the same thing, called ‘representation’. But if the labour
remains divided, who is to work on a common view of representations, the
interface between logic and psychology, so that both sides can eventually
talk to each other about their shared concern, the mind? It needs to be
done; and it is not too early to start. I will volunteer a contribution.
Consider these proposals on their merits.
The very publicness of language easily leads us to the dangerous idea
that, since we use it so eﬀortlessly, we must know all there is to know
about it. Over the centuries, and even before anyone started seriously to
consider how language is represented in the brain, it was recognized that
the outer forms of language could be misleading. A separate discipline
of logic grew, still largely responsive to language, but insisting on a gap
between any logical notation and the superﬁcial shapes of sentences. The
most important modern advance was Frege (1879)’s shift to a generalized
view of predication, whereby concepts corresponding to all major parts of
speech—nouns, verbs, adjectives, and prepositions—are predicates. The
move to a representation less slavishly tied to the superﬁcial form of
sentences makes it possible to envisage a rapprochement to the brain
(although that was not Frege’s motivation). In the previous chapter we
have already made one proposal for interpreting the most basic core of
Fregean logical notation, predicate-argument structure, in neural terms.
This chapter will suggest a far-reaching extension of that idea of getting
logical representations of meaning to be plausible in terms of what we
know about the brain.
In what follows, I will make two assumptions. The ﬁrst is that the
logico-linguistic enterprise is essentially psychological; but linguists and
logicians can make a contribution while keeping to their traditional ver-
bal pen-and-paper tools and methods. Linguists and logicians, without
Towards Human Semantics 125
getting drawn into neuroscience, stake out the territory of what the mind
can do, what inferences and connections it can make, and sometimes
express in language, about what kinds of objects and events. So long as
an eye is kept on the ultimate goal of relating logical representations
to psychology, linguists and logicians can carry on analysing language
without being too distracted by questions of neural representation.
This leads to my second assumption, which is that the ontology of
many currently proposed logical notations is too rich to support plausible
neural instantiation. Formal semanticists propose representations which
include many diﬀerent types of term, such as quantiﬁers, individual con-
stants, ordered multi-place predicates, participant-role labels (e.g. Agent,
Patient), operators, referential indices, and so forth. It is unlikely that
diﬀerent brain mechanisms will be found corresponding to all the diﬀerent
interpretive conventions that these diﬀerent notational devices require.
If the linguists and logicians are to use notations that will eventually
be interpretable psychologically, they ought not to multiply notational
innovations beyond necessity.
One-place predicates2
taking individual variables as arguments, have, I
claim, a neural basis. Can we reduce all formal representations of propo-
sitions to this bare minimum? I will sketch an aﬃrmative answer. If it
turns out that such minimal representations are inadequate for all the
subtle distinctions made by modern human languages, I have a fall-back
position. This is that the bare minimal representations I will propose are
adequate to capture the private mental representations of animals at an
evolutionary stage just prior to the emergence of public language. How
could we possibly know about those? By reasoning from what we know
about human and animal perceptual and memory systems.
It is convenient to devise a somewhat new notation to bridge the gap
between what is known about visual (and auditory) attention and con-
ventional logical formulae. The notation I will propose follows Discourse
Representation Theory (DRT, Kamp and Reyle 1993) in the use of boxes
as a way of delimiting the part of the world represented. In DRT, the
concern is with building up a ‘universe’ consisting of only the things men-
tioned in the discourse under analysis, typically beginning with a simple
sentence of the Jones owns Ulysses sort. Correspondingly, the notation I
will use here depicts just the set of entities that can be comprehended in
2
Please read most instances of predicate in this chapter, especially when attributed to
animals, as abbreviating pre-linguistic predicate or proto-predicate. Once public labels get
attached to these, and they become integrated into human languages, they take on further
properties, as will be seen in the sequel to this book.
126 The Origins of Meaning
one visual scene. My own notation, however, will be more constrained, in
not using any variables at all. The use of variables in DRT enables that
theory (and equivalently predicate logic) to capture certain facts about
quite complex linguistic phenomena that go beyond anything that seems
to be necessary for the comprehension of a scene. Further, the non-use of
variables, augmented by the idea of the context-dependence of predicates
mentioned at the end of the last chapter (Sarris 2006), will also make it
possible to maintain the limitation to one-place predicates. Right, here
goes, introducing the box notation for scenes.
Recall the scene mentioned earlier (and now suppressing the relativizing
baboon subscript for simplicity):
lion(x) & crouch(x) & rock(y)
For starters, we’ll redraw this as:
lion
crouch rock
The outer box represents the whole scene to which global attention is
paid. The inner boxes represent the individual objects in this scene, to
which local attention is paid. In this notation, a box plays the same role
as a variable in conventional notations. Inclusion of several predicate
terms in the same box means that they all apply to the same individual.
Separate boxes stand for diﬀerent individuals. The two-level device of an
outer box containing inner boxes corresponds to the two-level distinction
between global and local attention.3
As mentioned earlier, the ‘threeness’
of some group of objects can be detected by the parallel-search, subitizing
mechanism of global attention. Correspondingly a scene containing three
cows would be represented as:
three cow cow cow
Here the predicate three is in the outer box, hence representing a judge-
ment about a property of the whole scene. The two-level outer/inner
distinction, corresponding to objects in a scene, is the only iconic aspect
of this notation. This element of iconicity in the notation is helpful
to us because it roughly mimics scenes as we, and higher animals, see
them. The box diagrams are not, of course, a literal picture of the
represented neural activity in the brain of an observer seeing a scene.
3
Or, following a slightly diﬀerent theory (Humphreys 1998), the two-level distinction
between between-object visual coding and within-object visual coding.
Towards Human Semantics 127
There are no pictures inside brains. The outer box represents global
attention to a whole scene; the inner boxes represent local attention to the
individual objects in a scene. This is not a thoroughgoing picture theory
of propositional representations in the manner of Wittgenstein (1922).
The relative positions of the inner boxes have no signiﬁcance, and these
boxes can be moved around with no eﬀect on the claimed relation to the
observed scene. The only element of ordering in these representations is
the asymmetric relationship between outer and inner boxes.
Here is another illustrative example. Say an observer sees a pair of
people walking in unison together near a rock; the pair, seen as a unit,
moves. This could be represented as follows:
rock
two
move
person
person
This attributes three levels of global–local ‘zooming-in’ to a pre-linguistic
creature, which may be more than some animals are capable of. I assume
that primates can manage scenes of this complexity.
A monkey can look at three birds and take in the whole scene, the global
‘threeness’ of it and the fact that the participants are all birds. Three or
four is the limit of what a monkey can take in at a glance, but a monkey
can represent something about a scene containing more than four birds,
say a whole ﬂock, without devoting any local attention to any individual
bird, more or less as we can. This could possibly be represented as:
many bird
This supposes that there is no sustained zooming in to attend to individu-
als, but that global attention nevertheless delivers the information that the
scene contains birds. The predicate many expresses something roughly
corresponding to the human category Plural.
As mentioned earlier, the division between global and local attention
applies to audition as well as to vision. A baboon mother can pick the cry
of her own infant out of the background chattering hubbub, and we might
represent her experience as:
hubbub
my-baby
cry
A human auditory example, picking out the individual voices in a group,
would be:
128 The Origins of Meaning
quartet bass tenor alto soprano
The predicate labels in these diagrams are, as throughout this work, our
own shorthand labels for whatever neural activity is involved in recogniz-
ing an object or scene as belonging to a particular mental category. It
is not implied that a pre-linguistic primate would have exactly the same
neural response on seeing a rock or a person as we do. And in fact there is
individual variation among humans. But humans, by and large, can agree
to common labels on what they are jointly attending to. Thus, the use of
a term such as rock means ‘whatever neural activity happens in a pre-
linguistic creature that has a category of rocks more or less coextensive
with ours, when it recognizes, or thinks about, a rock’.
5.2 getting rid of individual constants
In the box notation just introduced, a box is the equivalent of an indi-
vidual variable, e.g. x, y, or z, in standard logic, and the terms in the
boxes correspond to (conjunctions of) predicates taking those variables
as arguments. This leaves out of consideration individual constant terms,
purporting uniquely to identify particular individuals, terms like john,
paris, and venus. In this section I propose to eliminate such terms,
arguing from (1) ﬁrst principles, (2) the lack of clinching psychological
evidence, and (3) diﬀerences of opinions among philosophers.
5.2.1 The Principled Unknowability of Uniqueness
The logical idea of an individual constant is that it names a unique
individual in the world with absolute reliability. Many of the founders
of logic were aiming at an ideal notation in which the propositions of
science could be expressed. The science concerned would make statements
about objects such as the Sun, the Moon, and particular stars. (It is
interesting how often astronomical examples are used.) In the scientiﬁc
notation, predicates would be applied to the names for such individuals, as
in star(sirius), translatable as Sirius is a star. It was assumed that users
of the logical language would have absolutely (and I mean ‘absolutely’)
no problem in identifying, out there in the world, the unique object
denoted by the individual constant. This is a psychologically untenable
ideal.
Barsalou (1999, p. 584) sums up the psychological problem very clearly,
in terms of his theory of Perceptual Symbol Systems: ‘Perceptual symbols
Towards Human Semantics 129
need not represent speciﬁc individuals ...we should be surprised if the
cognitive system ever contains a complete representation of an individ-
ual. ...[W]e should again be surprised if the cognitive system ever remem-
bers an individual with perfect accuracy.’
The killer problem is the possibility of identical twins. I mean identical
twins in a broad sense, applicable to any sensible pair of objects. We
recognize objects by their properties. And our sense organs are limited
in the ﬁneness of detail that they can detect. Given two paperclips from
the same batch from the same factory, you can tell, if you have them both
in your hand, that they are diﬀerent individual objects. But shuﬄe them
around a bit, or toss them in the air and catch them, and you can’t tell
now which one was previously on the left. You can’t tell which is which.
The logical idea of an individual constant embodies the ‘whichness’ of
individuals, the separateness that they carry around distinguishing them
from other individuals. We don’t doubt that individuals, out there in the
world, are distinct from each other,4
so that the question ‘Which paperclip
was previously on the left?’ is a perfectly meaningful question. But, in
the limit, we can never answer such questions with any absolute certainty.
Consider now something much more important to you, actually, someone,
say your parent or your partner. You have good ways of telling this
person from all others that you meet. You have never had any problem.
Parents of identical twins can tell them apart. But ask them how they
do it, and they will give you a list of properties, for example, Lesley
is slightly heavier than Kim. Now conceivably there could be identical
twins distinguished by no properties at all that a parent, or anyone else,
could be sensitive to, given the sense organs we have. And yet they
would still, we know, be separate individuals, because we sometimes see
them together. So psychologically, individual constants, as logicians use
them, that is as terms uniquely identifying individuals, are impossible,
because there is no guaranteed reliable procedure for getting to the ‘right’
referent.
This killer problem of twins for reliably re-identifying the same indi-
vidual is made worse by the fact that individuals inevitably change their
properties over time. An extreme case is the tadpole who becomes a frog.
Closer to home, nobody is physically the same person as they were thirty
years ago, even though, paradoxically, we want and ﬁnd it useful to say
that they are the same person. There is a mountain of philosophical
4
Note the relationship between this claim and object permanence, discussed earlier in
Chapter 2.
130 The Origins of Meaning
literature on this, of course, which testiﬁes to the enduring mismatch
between our human intuitions and the evidence presented to us by the
world. Ruth Millikan (1987, p. 293) eloquently sums up the arbitrary
nature of human decisions in this domain:
The principle of strict identity over time is not strong enough by itself to
divide up the world into a determinate set of enduring objects. Or, more
accurately, it divides the ongoing world into chunks that are far too numerous,
overlapping, and crisscrossing to try to keep track of. So a great deal of room
is left for decision on our part as to how to divide the world into sensible-
sized and sensibly uniﬁed temporally extended wholes to be recognized and
honored by coordination with common and/or proper names.
Animals have no common and/or proper names, so there is no evidence
that they do mentally mark a diﬀerence between unique enduring indi-
vidual objects and roughly enduring bundles of properties, perhaps some-
times very ﬁne-grained. As far as characterizing animal thought is con-
cerned, an alternative is available: to treat proper names as predicates.
Traditional logic translates Mary is tall as tall(mary), using mary as
an individual constant, or rigid designator, in the terms of Kripke (1980).
Here is where an evolutionary account of meaning has to start from
diﬀerent examples. We are concerned with the mental representations of
pre-linguistic creatures. Mary is only known as ‘Mary’ because some-
one, probably her parents, named her thus, attaching a public label
to her. Before language, nobody named anything. Remember that in
this part of the work we are considering the mental representations of
things in the world held by creatures, probably quite smart, with no
public ways (yet) of signalling to each other about them. Let us, you
and I humans, on a visit to the zoo, agree to label a speciﬁc chim-
panzee in the troop ‘Mary’, and agree not to call anything or any-
one else by that name.5
Now what can be said to be present in the
mind of another chimpanzee in the troop (call him ‘Fred’) when see-
ing Mary scratching? Fred doesn’t know our name for Mary, and if
we put Mary’s identical-to-the-senses twin into the arena, Fred couldn’t
tell them apart. All that Fred knows is that a chimpanzee with a rich
combination of features very familiar to him is scratching. Let’s label
this combination (with the usual reservations about imperfect translata-
bility into human categories) maryfred. What passes through Fred’s mind
5
This is not, of course, actually possible, for what if the chimp we agree to call Mary
goes indoors and one exactly like her, as far as we can see, comes out? Is that Mary? We
don’t know.
Towards Human Semantics 131
on seeing Mary scratching is, in equivalent conventional and box nota-
tions6
:
maryfred(x) & scratchfred(x) mary scratch
A claim is made here about animal cognition, namely that animals do
not have the cognitive equivalent of the human concept of a unique indi-
vidual. This suggests the further claim that the human concept of a unique
individual came with the advent of public language. The most convincing
evidence that humans have concepts of unique re-identiﬁable individuals
is linguistic, in our strong intuitions about (non-)coreference in sentences
with reﬂexive and non-reﬂexive pronouns, as in Maryi shot herselfi versus
Maryi shot herj=
/i . What use would a languageless animal have for the
concept of a unique individual that could not equally well be served, in
all practical circumstances, by a suﬃciently distinctive bundle of features?
An animal needs to be able ‘recognize’ its own oﬀspring. The scare quotes
here are necessary, because the word recognize is ambiguous as between
recognizing something as a unique individual (which we humans gullibly
think we can do) and recognizing something as belonging to a category
(an ability we share with many animals). But animals are not uniformly
good at recognizing their own oﬀspring. The victims of parasitic birds
such as the cuckoo cannot tell that the egg in the nest is not one that they
laid.7
The non-uniqueness of an object in terms of its sensible properties can
be experienced. Given two identical twin objects presented together, one
knows that they are separate individuals, because there are two of them
right there present to the senses. But the uniqueness of an object can
never be experienced. Humans may mentally postulate the uniqueness of
certain objects,8
because they never experience them together with a twin
indistinguishable to the senses. Postulating such uniqueness of an object
amounts to adopting a working hypothesis that one will never encounter
this object and an indistinguishable twin together. One could in theory
test whether an animal or a baby had taken this mental step in relation
to some object (say its mother) by seeing whether it somehow registered
6
As noted earlier, there is no distinction between an object and a one-object scene. Also,
for simplicity, I have omitted the fred subscripts from the box version here.
7
And, even more strikingly, appear not to be able to ‘tell’ that the giant hatchling they
struggle to feed could not be of their own kind.
8
I have an idea that this is essentially what Kant (1781, p. 574) had in mind when assert-
ing that ‘the concept of an individual object ...is completely determined by the mere idea,
and must therefore be called an ideal of pure reason’. This quotation and the page reference
are taken from Immanuel Kant’s Critique of Pure Reason. In Commemoration of the Cente-
nary of its First Publication, trans. F. Max Müller, 2nd rev. edn. New York: Macmillan, 1922.
132 The Origins of Meaning
surprise when presented with two of them together indistinguishable to
the senses. Surprise in the baby would be measured operationally by the
usual criteria of longer looking time or increased sucking in response to
some violation of expectations. 9
No doubt, some bundles of features are far more important for an
animal than other bundles of features. Especially in the case of social
animals, who know the hierarchical ranking relations between all their
group members, there must be, for each individual, a highly detailed
mental descriptive representation. For the sake of an example, let’s pos-
tulate that a dominant animal in a troop is eﬀectively distinguished by
the following set of predicates: {slanty-eyed, scar-on-left-cheek,
torn-right-ear, sweaty-smelling, male, big, struts}.We do
not need to suppose that all predicates in this set are necessary for ‘recog-
nition’ of the animal. Probably, satisfying a good majority of them on
any given occasion will be enough. This has to be the case if an animal
is capable of registering occasional changes in the criteria by which it
‘recognizes’ other animals. And probably some predicates/properties are
more dispensable than others. So the predicate struts is not necessary
if this dominant animal is observed obviously sleeping. But the same
struts feature will be useful for distinguishing the dominant in a group
walking about, when perhaps the torn right ear is not so easy to see. This
is the basis of a probabilistic, fallible ‘recognition’ procedure.
Following up the same example, this particular set of predicates may be
so useful to the recognizing animal that it acquires a fast habitual response
to any object simultaneously satisfying enough of them, as determined by
the circumstances. That is, the animal acquires a higher-level predicate
that experience tells it is pretty reliable in guiding its social behaviour,
directing it, for example, not to pick a ﬁght with this particular dominant
member of its troop. Presumably, a social animal will have such eﬀectively
distinctive bundles of features for all the members of its troop. These
bundles of features serve the same purpose as proper names, but we have
not had to postulate a separate special kind of mental term to account for
languageless animals’ behaviour.10
9
A long time ago, I heard of experiments in which babies were shown contrived
movies depicting two or three images of their mother simultaneously, and were apparently
unperturbed; but I have not been able to dig up a reference for this, so the story remains
apocryphal.
10
The arguments here about eliminating the equivalent of proper names from ‘proto-
thought’ have been set out in a number of other publications, in various ways, with diﬀerent
emphasis, and in some cases at greater length. See Hurford (1999, 2001, 2003a, Section 1.3,
2003b, Section 6).
Towards Human Semantics 133
Even if it can be shown that an animal has taken the cognitive
step of attributing uniqueness to some object, it would not be nec-
essary to use the logician’s device of an individual constant to repre-
sent this. If, for example, some companion of our slanty-eyed smelly
friend mentioned above has ‘decided’ that he is one of a kind, that
there is no one else exactly like him in all sensible respects, the com-
panion’s bundle of features for this individual could be augmented by
a feature reﬂecting this decision, so that the animal in question is now
known as { unique, slanty-eyed, scar-on-left-cheek, torn-
right-ear, sweaty-smelling, male, big, struts }. Whether any
animal in fact treats any other animal, or any object, in this way,
remains an open empirical question, and of course the hypothetical pre-
dicate unique cannot be based on any properties derived from percep-
tion alone. Steven Pinker (1997, pp. 114–118) gives a clear exposition
of the importance in human thought of a distinction between individ-
uals, identiﬁed by their unique ‘whichness’, and mere bundles of prop-
erties. Later (p. 471), he attributes this distinction to animals: ‘Males
[animals] may not care what kind of female they mate with, but they
are hypersensitive to which female they mate with. It is another exam-
ple of the logical distinction between individuals and categories.’ No
reference is given for this assertion, and it should be pointed out that
it would be very diﬃcult to design an experiment to see whether ani-
mals really have a human-like concept of an individual, as opposed to a
hyperﬁne discrimination of features. Unless there is evidence that animals
make this distinction, it seems reasonable to assume that they don’t,
and my proposal for pre-linguistic mental representations will reﬂect this
parsimony.
This view of the mental representation of particulars has its critics.
(Bickerton 2007, p. 516) writes: ‘But since (in life as opposed to logic)
what words represent are concepts, not real-world entities, the fact that
animals can be deceived about individual identities is wholly irrelevant;
if a non-human has the concept of an individual, that concept can be
named, and no real-world misapplication of the name aﬀects it or its
utility.’ This is a bundle of confusion. Let’s start with points of agreement.
Yes, words represent concepts, as English cat represents the concept cat.
(The indirect relation between words and real-world entities, kinds and
classes, etc., such as the cat kind, is indispensable, because we use words
to talk about things in the world, but I guess that is not at issue here.) Yes,
words don’t represent real-world entities, if by this is meant that a word
cannot pick out a particular real-world entity, such as Felix, the exact
134 The Origins of Meaning
speciﬁc ginger tomcat that lived from June 1992 to July 2006 in Portobello,
Edinburgh. For all I know, Felix might be alive still and the body I buried
in the garden was his twin. So when we use a proper name like Felix, most
of the time we are safe in communicating about the same entity, but it
can’t be guaranteed. If this is what is meant by ‘what words represent are
not real-world entities’, then we agree; so far so good. The argument goes
on with a conditional: ‘if a non-human has a concept of an individual ...’.
Note the hypothetical ‘if’. That condition is, of course, exactly what is at
issue, namely whether a non-human can have a concept of an individual
(as opposed to a concept of a bundle of properties), so we can’t take the
condition for granted just because it has been introduced, lawyer-like,
into the discourse. What follows the conditional is ‘that concept can be
named’. Hey, wait a minute, the condition was about non-humans having a
‘concept of an individual’; non-humans don’t have names for anything, let
alone (hypothetical) concepts of particular individuals. So when ‘animals
can be deceived about individual entities’ (a fact on which we agree), it is
not a matter of the ‘misapplication of a name’, because animals don’t use
names.
When an animal is deceived about an individual entity, it is a matter of
its concept of a very speciﬁc bundle of features matching the wrong entity
in the world. I will repeat an example I have used before (Hurford 2001).
The following quotation demonstrates the prima facie attraction of the
impression that animals distinguish such individuals, but simultaneously
gives the game away.
The speed with which recognition of individual parents can be acquired is
illustrated by the ‘His Master’s Voice’ experiments performed by Stevenson
et al. (1970) on young terns: these responded immediately to tape-recordings
of their own parents (by cheeping a greeting, and walking towards the loud-
speaker) but ignored other tern calls, even those recorded from other adult
members of their own colony. (Walker 1983, p. 215)
Obviously, the tern chicks in the experiment were not recognizing their
individual parents—they were being fooled into treating a loudspeaker
as a parent tern. For the tern chick, anything which behaved suﬃciently
like its parent was ‘recognized’ as its parent, even if it wasn’t. The tern
chicks were responding to very ﬁnely grained properties of the auditory
signal, and apparently neglecting even the most obvious of visual prop-
erties discernible in the situation. In tern life, there usually aren’t human
experimenters playing tricks with loudspeakers, and so terns have evolved
to discriminate between auditory cues just to the extent that they can
Towards Human Semantics 135
identify their own parents with a high degree of reliability. Even terns
presumably sometimes get it wrong. ‘[A]nimals respond in mechanical
robot-like fashion to key stimuli. They can usually be “tricked” into
responding to crude dummies that resemble the true, natural stimulus
situation only partially, or in superﬁcial respects’ (Krebs and Dawkins
1984, p. 384).
Bickerton’s argument continues: ‘A wealth of evidence from ethological
studies of primates shows that apes have a very clear idea of the other
individuals in their group and even the precise kinship relations of each
person (if this were not the case, it would not be possible for A to avenge
an action of B’s by attacking C, who is B’s nephew).’ Yes, absolutely, I
don’t doubt those data. Note that ﬁeld experiments which help to establish
these facts (such as those reported in Cheney and Seyfarth 1999; Bergman
et al. 2003; Seyfarth and Cheney 2003) rely on the animals being deceived
about the individual entities they (think they) hear in played-back audio
recordings. A mother monkey or baboon, hearing a recording of her
infant, looks towards the loudspeaker, not towards her absent infant. Such
animal behaviour, and all the rest of their complex social behaviour, can be
accounted for perfectly easily by attributing to the animals highly speciﬁc
bundles of mental predicates, rather than something ontologically distinct
from predicates, such as individual constants.
A lot of the problem here stems from the original logical idea of an indi-
vidual constant, a term in the logical language with a diﬀerent status from
predicates. The argument is about the speciﬁc idea of a unique individual,
as embodied in the logician’s idea of the denotation of an individual
constant. A major motivation for developing logical representations in
the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries was to provide an ideal
language for science, because ordinary language was deemed too vague.
Scientists need to be as sure as possible that the particular individual
entities to which they refer, for example, Venus, Alpha Centauri, are the
same from one occasion of reference to the next. Of course, this can never
be absolutely guaranteed, but the developers of logic pressed on regardless
of this inconvenient psychological fact. Other scholars who have never
been particularly bothered about logic may not grasp the enormity of
the claim implicit in postulating individual constants, and much of their
commentary reﬂects this. Of course, they say, animals can be deceived. But
a (hypothetical) organism with the equivalent of an individual constant in
its mental repertoire would never be deceived—that is what is meant by
‘individual constant’. This shows the wrongness of adopting a scheme of
mental representation incorporating individual constants.
136 The Origins of Meaning
My objective here is not to adopt a pre-existing logical formalism willy-
nilly and to squeeze animal behaviour into it. On the contrary, I am
rejecting a particular element of traditional logic, individual constants,
as inappropriate to animal behaviour. Interestingly, all sides are agreed
on the basic facts about animal behaviour. To those not professionally
bothered by details of logical formalism, this argument may seem like a
storm in a teacup, much ado about nothing. But my project is to outline
a continuity between the mental representations of animals and those of
humans underlying their natural language sentences. Thus it is necessary
to try to spell out, in a similar style to the logical project for human
thought, what elements animal thought could have consisted of.
The discussion so far has been of private non-linguistic mental entities
that can be attributed to animals. Bickerton concludes his critical passage
with ‘We may therefore reasonably conclude that proto-language had
proper as well as common nouns.’ Now we are in a diﬀerent realm, that
of public expression of hitherto private representations. The question of
whether proto-language had proper names is independent from the main
focus of the discussion here, namely the private conceptual representa-
tions of animals. I will return to the topic of proto-language and syntactic
categories in the sequel to this book.
5.2.2 No Clinching Psychological Evidence
The undoubted psycholinguistic fact that proper names are more subject
to forgetting in old age than other words does not argue for a separate
semantic category, distinct from predicate. Predicates form a large class
of concepts, with many subtypes. There are speciﬁc anomias relating to
various subcategories of predicate, such as fruit, body-parts, living things,
artefacts, and others.11
Indeed there are several reports of proper-name-
speciﬁc anomia (Semenza and Zettin 1989; Semenza 1997; Fukatsu et al.
1999; Pelamatti et al. 2003).12
I claim that proper names correspond to a
special subclass of predicates, rather than to a distinct class, separate from
predicates. If proper names correspond to a class distinct from predicates,
we would expect to be able to ﬁnd cases of anomia that impaired retrieval
of all words corresponding to predicates, but selectively spared retrieval
of proper names. Bredart et al. (1997) discuss three papers claiming to
have found a double dissociation between processing of common nouns
11
Among other sources, see a special issue of Neurocase, 4 (1998) for several case studies
and a general discussion of their signiﬁcance by Alfonso Caramazza (Caramazza 1998).
12
Semenza et al. (1998) also give a good list of references to ‘proper name anomia’.
Towards Human Semantics 137
and proper names and conclude that ‘a double dissociation between the
processing of proper names and common names has not been demon-
strated for production. The evidence for a double dissociation between
comprehension of proper names and common names is much stronger,
but even this claim is limited’ (p. 209). No clear case has been reported
of an anomia aﬀecting all words, of any syntactic category (nouns, verbs,
adjectives, etc.), except proper names. If logical terms corresponding to
proper names are as distinct from predicates as classical logic treats them
as being, it should be possible to ﬁnd such a case.
Chief among the special properties of proper names is that the linguistic
semantic system provides extremely few inferences that can be drawn from
the fact that a person bears a particular proper name. From the surname
Baker one can infer nothing reliably about the person who bears it, except
perhaps that he or she comes from an English-speaking culture. But from
the common noun baker applied to a person, one can immediately infer a
lot of information about that person. This fact is picked up by Proverbio
et al. (2001), who compared brain activity by subjects retrieving common
and proper names.
ERPs spatio-temporal mapping showed on one side a strong activation of
left anterior temporal and left central-frontal areas for proper names, and on
the other side a greater involvement of occipital areas for common names
retrieval. The speciﬁc pattern of bio-electrical activity recorded during proper
names retrieval might index the activation of neural circuits for recalling
names of high contextual complexity, poor of sensory-motor associations and
dependent on precise spatio-temporal coordinates.
(Proverbio et al. 2001, p. 815)
Note the implicit idea of a quantitative diﬀerence of degree here in ‘con-
textual complexity [and poverty] of sensory-motor associations’. I would
predict that proper names with great iconic status, like Jesus, Hitler, and
Einstein would be retrieved with more activity in areas usually involved in
common-noun retrieval. Such names are more frequently recruited gram-
matically as common nouns, as in He’s no Einstein or He’s a real Hitler.
Semenza et al. (1998, p. 51) correctly write: ‘This distinction [com-
mon noun versus proper name] resembles closely that universally made
between semantic and episodic memory mechanisms but with an impor-
tant diﬀerence: the mechanisms in question are more peripheral and oper-
ate at the lexical level.’ Animals, with little or no episodic memory, and no
lexicon, are unlikely to have a speciﬁc class of predicates distinguished as
it can be in humans.
138 The Origins of Meaning
A diﬀerent psychological point has been thoughtfully made by Juan
Carlos Gómez (personal communication). He writes:
There is a robust ﬁnding in primate literature that all great apes (excluding
most gorillas) are capable of recognising themselves in mirrors by showing
behaviours such as exploring otherwise invisible parts of their bodies or, more
experimentally, by passing the red mark test (red painting placed on their
forehead while anesthetised that they can only discover with the mirror once
they wake up), whereas all monkey species as well as non-primates always
treat mirror reﬂections as conspeciﬁcs. Could this be taken to entail a notion
of individuals, as exempliﬁed by one’s own individuality?
I don’t think this relates exactly to the question of knowing other indi-
viduals as unique. Undoubtedly the results that Gómez describes show
some kind of qualitative diﬀerences between apes13
and monkeys. I, in
company with many others, am unsure how to interpret these mirror
results. They could be taken to show that apes are ready to accept causally
linked doubles of themselves, which at least somewhat undermines any
argument for personal uniqueness. An awareness of one’s own uniqueness
may be the evolutionary starting point for attribution of uniqueness to
others, but the uniqueness of others is still a matter of a kind of mental
postulation, because, to reiterate the argument from ﬁrst principles, the
genuine uniqueness of some other is in the limit unknowable.
5.2.3 Philosophers Split both Ways
Within the philosophy of language, there has been a lively debate between
those who interpret grammatically proper names as individual constants
and those like me, who treat them, as predicates. Burge (1973, n. 3), a
member of the ‘predicates’ camp, gives a list of classic sources in this
debate: he includes Russell and Quine as proponents of the ‘predicates’
view. A more recent proponent of the predicate view is Elugardo (2002).
The recent arch-proponent of the opposing view is, of course, Kripke
(1980), with the view sometimes being originally attributed to J. S. Mill
(1843). Since Burge’s article, others who have leapt into the debate include
Pendlebury (1990); Geurts (1997); Segal (2001); Abbott (2002); Reimer
(2002); Soames (2002); Stidd (2004). It is also now common practice
13
I believe that the diﬃculty with gorillas is that looking another gorilla in the eye is
taken as a sign of hostility, and so they avoid looking themselves in the eye in a mirror. On
the face of it, this might be taken as showing that the gorilla thinks that the image in the
mirror is a diﬀerent, possibly hostile, gorilla. But it may be more of an inbuilt inhibition,
hard to overcome.
Towards Human Semantics 139
in Discourse Representation Theory (DRT, stemming from Kamp and
Reyle 1993) to treat proper names as predicates, so that, for example, the
representation of Jones owns Ulysses is the structure below (from Kamp
and Reyle 1993, p. 64):
x y
Jones(x)
Ulysses(y)
x owns y
Kamp and Reyle (1993, p. 132) emphasize the triviality of treating individ-
ual constants as predicates by noting the equivalence between mary(x)
and x = mary, an identity notation conventionally used in predicate
logic.
It is signiﬁcant that DRT, being a psychologically concerned theory
about what speakers do when interpreting sentences, also treats proper
names as predicates. In this theory, when hearers hear a proper name in
the ﬂow of discourse, they assign it an index (e.g. w, x, y, z) for temporary
reference. This is very reminiscent of the way in which observers of a visual
scene keep track of a small number of objects and assign them mental
indices (for which I have earlier adopted the notation w, x, y, z). A theory
closely related to DRT is Heim (1983)’s ‘File Change Semantics’. In this
theory, newly mentioned referents in discourse are assigned to a ‘ﬁle’, in
which information predicated of them is kept, and updated as necessary.
In Heim (1983)’s words:
A listener’s task of understanding what is being said in the course of a con-
versation bears relevant similarities to a ﬁle clerk’s task. Speaking metaphor-
ically, let me say that to understand an utterance is to keep a ﬁle which, at
every time in the course of the utterance, contains the information that has so
far been conveyed by the utterance. (Heim 1983, p. 167)
This is a strikingly similar idea to that proposed by psychologists working
on visual attention. Kahneman and Treisman (1984 and 1992) hypothe-
size that the mind sets up temporary ‘object ﬁles’ in which information
about objects in a scene is stored. The object ﬁles can be updated, as the
viewer tracks changes in an object’s features or location. The use of the
same ‘ﬁle’ metaphor is not mere coincidence: there is a real convergence
of ideas here, from the normally very distant ﬁelds of linguistic discourse
processing and visual scene processing.14
Kahneman and Treisman’s idea
of visual object ﬁles overlaps signiﬁcantly, and consistently, with Pylyshyn
14
A few merely terminological adjustments are necessary. For Heim, the objects corre-
sponding to Kahneman and Treisman’s ‘ﬁles’ are ‘ﬁle cards’.
140 The Origins of Meaning
(1989)’s theory of FINSTs, which are indices assigned by the visual sys-
tem for tracking objects in a scene.15
So several independent theories of
discourse processing (DRT and File Change Semantics) converge signiﬁ-
cantly with several independent theories of visual processing. This is excit-
ing, and strongly suggests that one bit of language-processing machinery
has been co-opted (and probably adapted somewhat) from pre-existing
visual scene-processing machinery.
Returning now to proper names as expressing predicates, my argument
here, unlike those of philosophers of language and formal semanticists, is
not about how grammatically proper names in human languages should
be interpreted. In particular, my replacement of individual constants by
predicates does not appeal to the idea, commonly used in the philosoph-
ical debate, that such a predicate is an abbreviation for ‘(is a) person
named X’. Animals don’t give each other public names. My argument is
for a way of conceiving the possible pre-linguistic mental representations
that animals construct of their world. The argument is motivated by
considerations of parsimony (don’t multiply types of mental term beyond
necessity) and feasibility (don’t attribute impossible powers to any organ-
ism). The argument here does relate to the debates within the philosophy
of language and linguistics, however, because it is natural to assume that
human language evolved by building upon pre-existing representational
schemes in animals.
5.3 getting rid of ordered arguments and role markers
This section builds cumulatively on the previous section. (For this section
it will be convenient to stick with a conventional linear notation, and
return to box representations in the following section.) In the previous sec-
tion, individual constants were replaced by predicate terms, and the exam-
ples given were all one-place predicates. We now turn to predicates which
take more than one argument. So far, we can render traditional logical for-
mulae as in the ﬁrst batch below (p. 141) in the revised notation below it.
Logic insists that the arguments of a relation are ordered. This is
necessary to distinguish between, for example stab(brutus, caesar)
and stab(caesar, brutus), and between own(scarlett, tara)and
own(tara, scarlett). Sequential ordering on the printed page is
logic’s way of making it clear how the referents of the arguments are
related by the predicate. The logician’s idea of the ordering of arguments
15
FINST is Pylyshyn (1989)’s abbreviation for FINger of INSTantiation, highlighting
the indexical (deictic) nature of these visual tracking devices.
Towards Human Semantics 141
Traditional Notation English Translation
stab(brutus, caesar) Brutus stabbed Caesar
own(scarlett, tara) Scarlett owns Tara
orbit(earth, sun) The Earth orbits the Sun
taller-than(goliath, david) Goliath is taller than David
between(atlantic, europe, america) The Atlantic is between
Europe and America
Revised Traditional Notation without Individual Constants
brutus(x) & caesar(y) & stab(x, y)
scarlett(x) & tara(y) & own(x, y)
earth(x) & sun(y) & orbit(x, y)
goliath(x) & david(y) & taller-than(x, y)
atlantic(x) & europe(y) & america(z) & between(x, y, z)
also has a more abstract aspect than mere graphical convenience. It
is traditional to say that the denotation of a one-place predicate is
the set of all entities satisﬁed by that predicate. Thus the denotation
of the predicate cat is the set of all cats. Correspondingly, but more
challengingly to the imagination, the denotation of a two-place predicate
is said to be a set of ‘ordered pairs’. Thus the denotation of bigger-
than is supposed to be the set of all ordered pairs in which the ﬁrst
member is bigger than the second; likewise the denotation of love is
the set of all ordered pairs such that the ﬁrst member loves the second.
We are meant to imagine that the world in some way contains these
ordered pairs, and ordered triples for three-place predicates, and so
forth. This kind of move stems from a non-psychologizing abstract
logico-mathematical tradition. Quine (1960), coming from this tradition
himself, was nevertheless somewhat uneasy about the idea of an ordered
pair. He writes: ‘We do better to face the fact that “ordered pair” is a
defective noun, not at home in all the questions and answers in which
we are accustomed to imbed terms at their full-ﬂedged best’ (p. 258). In
the end, I think16
Quine decided that the term ‘ordered pair’ was worth
keeping, but in his discussion of it he oﬀered another possibility:
We have, to begin with, an expression or form of expression that is somehow
troublesome. It behaves partly like a term but not enough so, or it is vague in
ways that bother us, or it puts kinks in a theory or encourages one or other
confusion. But it also serves certain purposes that are not to be abandoned.
Then we ﬁnd a way of accomplishing those same purposes through other
16
Quine’s discussion is convoluted and allusive, so I only think that this was his conclu-
sion.
142 The Origins of Meaning
channels, using other and less troublesome forms of expression. The old
perplexities are resolved. (Quine 1960, p. 260)
In this section, I will show how to accomplish the purpose served by
‘ordered pair’ in logic through other channels using other and less trou-
blesome forms of expression, and resolving the old perplexity of where in
the world to ﬁnd such ordered pairs.17
Languageless animals don’t have
printed pages to rely on. What is needed is some way of representing
who-did-what-to-whom that does not implicitly rely on sequencing. The
baboon who sees one baboon grooming another sees them both at the
same time; the referents of both arguments are simultaneously present.
Linguistic semanticists, more interested in the meanings of particular
lexical items than logicians, have developed ways of making ﬁner
distinctions than are made by the logician’s simple device of ordering
the arguments of a predicate. In the examples above (consider the true
instances, rather than their reversed pairs), both brutus and scarlett
were predicated of the ﬁrst arguments of their respective two-place
predicates; and caesar and tara were predicated of the second
arguments of those predicates, respectively. The simple ordering notation
makes no distinction between the two very diﬀerent kinds of relation
involved with stab and own. One proposition, with stab, describes an
action, with an animate Agent and an animate Patient; the proposition
with own describes a state of aﬀairs, with no action taking place, no
movement, involving one animate participant (Scarlett) and one
inanimate (Tara, the plantation). Notational conventions vary, but one
variant is to augment the logical formulae with extra labels indicating the
roles played by the participants in the events. For example:
Agent Patient
| |
STAB(BRUTUS, CAESAR)
Possessor Object
| |
OWN(SCARLETT, TARA)
Recasting these in our revision of the traditional notation, without indi-
vidual constants, they would be:
17
The claim I will make only applies to logical representation in the context of the
evolution of language, and not to other applications, for example in theorizing about the
foundations of mathematics.
Towards Human Semantics 143
Agent Patient
| |
BRUTUS(x) & CAESAR(y) & STAB( x, y )
Possessor Object
| |
SCARLETT(x) & TARA(y) & OWN( x, y )
Note that this labelling with participant roles makes the logician’s order-
ing of the arguments redundant. And the participant role labels give more
speciﬁc information about the nature of the event depicted than is possible
by ordering. So we can eliminate the commas from the notation and deal
instead with unordered sets18
of arguments labelled with participant roles.
Agent Patient
| |
BRUTUS(x) & CAESAR(y) & STAB{ x y }
Possessor Object
| |
SCARLETT(x) & TARA(y) & OWN{ x y }
With the arguments labelled, the ordering on the page of the arguments
of a two-place predicate is immaterial; they are logically unordered, just
as the conjuncts joined by ‘&’ are unordered.
Thus far, the notation has eliminated ordering at the expense of intro-
ducing a new kind of term, namely participant role labels. They are
certainly useful, giving speciﬁc information about the ways in which the
participants of the depicted event are involved. Nothing is lost, however,
and ontological parsimony is gained, if we simply regard these partici-
pant role markers as predicates. Thus ‘Agent’ and ‘Patient’, and all other
roles that have been invented by linguists, are just one-place predicates,
and we’ll write them agent and patient henceforth. Having made this
move, our examples are now conjunctions of simple propositions, like this:
brutus(x)
& caesar(y)
& agent(x)
& patient(y)
& stab(x y)
18
Hence the curly brackets below replacing the earlier round parentheses.
144 The Origins of Meaning
Exactly the same information would be given if we had written the com-
ponents out in any other order, for example as follows:
stab(y x)
& patient(y)
& caesar(y)
& brutus(x)
& agent(x)
This notational juggling has a point. It signiﬁcantly reduces the number of
diﬀerent types of term in our representations, which are aimed at meshing
eventually with diﬀerent types of brain mechanism. To summarize, we
now have only the following:
one-place predicates
individual variables as arguments of the one-place predicates
two- and three-place predicates taking unordered sets of arguments
logical conjunction ‘&’.
(In the next section, when we return to the proposed box notation, I
will claim that two- and three-place predicates can be eliminated, and
replaced by one-place predicates applying to whole scenes, thus reducing
everything to conjunctions of one-place predicates.)
Treating participant roles (a.k.a. thematic roles, theta-roles) as predi-
cates is an idea that has shown up often, but sporadically, in the semantics
literature. It has become particularly widespread in work in the tradition
of Event Semantics. Borer (2005, p. 218) represents the meaning of The
cat climbed the tree as
∃e [originator (cat, e) & default participant (the tree, e) & climb(e)]
In the usual way of paraphrasing in terms of event theory, this can be read
as There was a climbing event, e, in which the originator was the cat and the
default participant was the tree. (Clearly, Borer’s notation still recognizes
the semantic equivalent of proper names, unlike me.) Here are two more
examples: Higginbotham (2000, p. 57) renders John walked slowly as
walk(e) ∧ Actor(John, e) ∧ slow(e)
and Parsons (2000, p. 81) gives Brutus stabbed Caesar violently with a knife
as
∃e(Stabbing(e) ∧ Cul(e, past) ∧ Agent(e, Brutus) ∧ Object(e, Caesar) ∧
Violent(e) ∧ With(e, knife))
Towards Human Semantics 145
Treating participant roles as predicates, as in these examples, has not
been the topic of any grand debate, which may indicate that it has been
seen as a matter more of terminological convenience than of signiﬁcant
content. But ideally our terminology should reﬂect our ontology. If we
think participant roles are really nothing more than a kind of predicate, we
should not continue to speak and write of them as if they were something
else.
In the particular case of the Agent role, the criteria used for diagnosing
it include all those used to diagnose animacy (a.k.a. agency) in an individ-
ual object. Animacy is the potential to act as an Agent. A bird is animate,
but not always acting in the Agent role, as when a cat eats a bird; but when
a bird eats a worm, it is acting in the Agent role. If we had never known
objects from a particular category to be able to participate in events in
the Agent role, we would never classify them as animate. animate is
a predicate that applies to objects; agent is a predicate that applies
to animate objects temporarily when certain further criteria are met,
such as wilful action having a causal eﬀect on other objects. See Cruse
(1973) and Dowty (1991) for extended discussion of such criteria.
It might be argued against the treatment of participant roles as predi-
cates that participant roles are subject to a ‘one-per-event’ restriction that
does not apply to predicates. Higginbotham (1999, p. 837), for instance,
illustrates this putative restriction with the example The prisoner escaped
with a bribe with a machine gun. This example is odd because it is a
case of zeugma, like He escaped with one bound and a million dollars.
‘Double-occupancy’ of participant roles does happen in cases of recip-
rocal action, as in the situation described by John and Bill fought each
other, where both Bill and John are simultaneously both Agents and
Patients in a single ﬁghting event. Double-occupancy of participant roles
is admittedly rare, and this constitutes a diﬀerence between participant
roles and some predicates. But, I shall argue in the next section, role
predicates like agent and patient are not the only predicates to be
typically aﬀected by a one-per-event (or one-per-scene) restriction, which
also often applies to relative concepts like big.
Cases expressed by a conjunction of phrases in languages, as in I ﬁshed
it out with a stick and a magnet, or Brutus and Cassius stabbed Caesar, are
not clearly cases of double-occupancy of a participant role. In the latter
case, it cannot be argued that the group referred to by the conjunction
of noun phrases Brutus and Cassius collectively fulﬁls the relevant role,
because it was both Brutus and Cassius, as separate individuals, who did
the stabbing. This is not a case of a plural entity constituted by Brutus and
146 The Origins of Meaning
Cassius doing the stabbing; each of them did it, with his own sword. But
against double-occupancy in this case it could possibly be argued that the
sentence describes two separate events, one in which Brutus is the Agent
and another in which Cassius is the Agent. A case such as is expressed
by Brutus and Cassius lifted the piano, where we assume that they both
individually did some lifting, but the resulting movement of the piano
was still a single event, could be a better candidate for double-occupancy
of the agent role in a single event.
Most discussions of participant roles (thematic roles, theta-roles) in lin-
guistics concentrate on sentences with (non-copular) verbs, such as Franny
slept or Floyd broke the glass with a hammer. They do not bring copular
sentences, such as This is a knife or Philip is Anne’s father, into discussion
of these roles. This is understandable, because the roles most frequently
discussed, Agent and Patient, are obviously missing from the situations
described by such sentences. Indeed, it is diﬃcult to apply the idea of a
‘role’ to anything mentioned in such sentences: to be a knife is not, in any
ordinary sense, to take any particular role in a situation of ‘knife-being’.
Familiar participant roles do not ﬁgure in the meanings of all sentences.
This ﬁts well with the idea of participant roles being predicates. Just as
not every sentence is about knives, or about people, or about beer, or
about being happy or female, so not every sentence is about events with
Agents, or with Patients. The representations of most copular sentences
simply don’t happen to use the predicates agent or patient.19
This
is a knife can simply be represented as knife(x), where the variable x
stands for whatever is deictically referred to by this on the occasion of
use. This view has the advantage of unifying the analysis of all sentences.
We don’t need to think of two diﬀerent types of sentence, those which
involve special entities called participant roles and those which don’t.
Certainly, sentences involving the predicate agent are more frequent
than sentences involving knife or happy, but this is just a matter of
frequency. It has often been stressed that the Agent role has a privileged
function in determining the choice of grammatical subject. This is a topic
relating to the externalization of meanings in public messages, and so I
will not go into it here, but will reserve discussion of it for Volume 2, on
the emergence of linguistic form.
The representations that I propose are similar, though not identical,
to those of Pietroski (2002, 2005), who argues for a ‘Conjunctivist’ form
19
Some copular sentences do encode agent and patient roles, as in Smith is the
killer of Jones.
Towards Human Semantics 147
of semantic representation. ‘Conjunctivism is a thesis about semantic
composition in natural language: when expressions are concatenated, they
are interpreted as (conjoinable) monadic predicates; and the resulting
phrase is interpreted as a predicate satisﬁed by whatever satisﬁes both
constituents’ (Pietroski 2005, p. 28). Pietroski, unlike me, still uses indi-
vidual constants, but, like me, treats participant roles such as agent as
predicates. Our goals diﬀer; Pietroski’s proposals are about interpret-
ing human language sentences, whereas mine are about plausible pre-
linguistic representations of the world in the minds of animals. But it is
surely signiﬁcant that there should be this beginning of a convergence.
The message I take from it is that the appropriate semantic representations
for mapping onto modern sentences were present in our ancestors before
language came on the scene. The sentences of human languages, and
their semantic interrelationships, moulded themselves to the pre-existing
semantic forms. But let’s not overcook this incipient convergence. As I
mentioned, even Pietroski’s representations still diﬀer in detail from what
I wish to propose. Pietroski’s representations are conjunctions of mainly
monadic (one-place) predications. He still keeps a few relations (two-place
predicates). I will go a step further, again in the interests of a parsimonious
account that has some hope of being mapped relatively directly onto brain
mechanisms.
5.4 one-place predicates over scenes and objects
The earlier representation
stab(y x)
& patient(y)
& caesar(y)
& brutus(x)
& agent(x)
can be translated into box notation as follows:
stab
patient
caesar
agent
brutus or
brutus
agent stab
caesar
patient
(Within boxes, order is immaterial, so there are many other equivalent
diagrams.) This can be paraphrased as There was a stabbing scene involving
Caesar as patient and Brutus as agent. Note that the box notation allows
us to treat stab, agent, and patient as one-place predicates. Treating
148 The Origins of Meaning
stab as a one-place predicate over events or scenes is already in line with
Event Semantics, as cited earlier, and so is relatively uncontroversial.
Implicit in the box notation is a relativizing function, so that the
terms within a box are interpreted as dependent on, or relative to, the
context established by the scene itself. Placing brutus, agent inside
an outer box labelled stab implies that Brutus is the Agent in a scene
characterized by stabbing. It is not necessary to see agent as a two-place
relation between the participant and the event. Barry Schein, a philoso-
pher, discusses the issue of the context-dependence of thematic roles, such
as agent and patient. ‘As for the thematic roles themselves, I assume
that one can ask whether or not they are relativized to the event concepts
or semantic ﬁelds in the same spirit that one asks whether an attributive
predicate such as slow is similarly relativized’ (Schein 2002, p. 267). Schein
compares Brutus stabbed Caesar with Brutus insulted Caesar, and asks,
‘does Caesar succumb in the same way, “Patient(e, Caesar)” to both insult
and injury, or by diﬀerent cuts, “Patient(e, Caesar, ‘stab’)” and “Patient(e,
Caesar, ‘insult’)”?’ (p. 267). I maintain that roles are partly interpreted
relative to context, like gradable adjectives such as slow, big, and hot, but
do also contribute some inherent content of their own to the proposition.
This is in line with Dowty (1991)’s analysis whereby a participant in
diﬀerent kinds of events, such as a stabbing event or an insulting event,
can play the same (proto-)role, even if their exact manner of participation
is somewhat diﬀerent, for example, involving physical action or not.
With two-place predications (if they are asymmetric, as most are),
there is always some property distinguishing one participant from the
other. If there were no feature distinguishing between the relata of a
two-place relation, it would be a symmetric relation. The very term
asymmetric implies this diﬀerence between the properties of the partici-
pants. The box notation exploits this aspect of (asymmetric) predicates.
In the stab example above, the information given in standard logical
notation by making brutus the ﬁrst argument of stab is given here by
associating the property agent with brutus. The box notation, where
a box contains several sub-boxes, implicitly represents the fact that there
is some unspeciﬁed relation between the participants, and some unspeciﬁed
relation between the parts and the whole. The outer box establishes a
relevant context in which the contents of the inner boxes are interpreted.
The box notation allows us to eliminate apparent (but not genuine)
two-place predicates. It is standard practice in Event Semantics to treat
Agent, Patient, and other participant roles as two-place predicates taking
the event variable e as one argument and the relevant object as the other.
Towards Human Semantics 149
An example cited earlier is Higginbotham (2000)’s rendering of John
walked slowly as
walk(e) ∧ Actor(John, e) ∧ slow(e)
Here, Actor takes two arguments. In a box notation, this can be avoided,
in either of two ways, thus:
walk
slow
john
agent
john
agent
walk
slow
The left-hand diagram here is a somewhat mechanical translation
of Higginbotham’s event-theoretic formula. The right-hand diagram, I
maintain, is a more direct representation of a visual scene, in which there
is one object, in which the properties of walking, slowness, and ‘Johnness’
are apparent.
The view advocated here treats terms such as agent and patient as
designating monadic properties and not as implicitly (or explicitly) rela-
tional. Recall the discussion, in Chapter 1.4, of biological motion and
agency, where biological motion and potential agency were diagnosed in
single objects, not necessarily participating in actions with other objects.
Not every distinguishing property of a participant in a scene is discerned
relative to the whole scene in the same way as agent. For example,
to represent a scene of which the judgement is made that Fred, who is
singing, and Mary, who is dancing, are acting in rhythmic synchrony with
each other, we might use:
unison
mary
dance
fred
sing
This diagram is formally the same shape as that used to represent Brutus
stabbing Caesar, earlier. Clearly, we don’t want to claim that any of the
judgements mary, fred, sing, and dance are so contextually relative
as agent. All mental pre-linguistic predicates are, I claim, monadic,
but some predicates are more contextually relativized than others. Mary,
fred, tree, and lion can all be assigned to objects with little or no in-
terference from the overall scene in which they appear. Others, such
as agent, patient, part, and big, are mentally assigned to an object
with much more consideration of the overall properties assigned to the
scene in which they appear.
The very same visual stimuli emanating from an object can be assigned
diﬀerent properties depending on what property is assigned to the whole
150 The Origins of Meaning
containing scene. Consider a puppet show, in which Punch whacks Judy.
Suspending our disbelief, we assign the predicate whack to the whole
event; this is a whacking event, in which Punch is the Agent. But to
reassure our kids that such domestic violence is just make-believe, we
point out that Punch is really ‘not doing it’, hence not an Agent, and
that the real Agent is a person behind the scenes manipulating a Punch-
glove; with this diﬀerent perspective on the same scene, Punch and Judy
are inanimate objects in a play event. I’m not suggesting that animals
can indulge in such radical ‘what-iﬀery’, but animals do play-ﬁght, and
can tell the diﬀerence between play-ﬁghting and real ﬁghting. It may take
an animal a few seconds to judge whether a particular interaction between
two others is a real ﬁght or just play. For alternative verdicts, it will
presumably then assign somewhat diﬀerent roles to the actors, depending
on its overall categorization of the interaction. Assignment of certain
properties, such as Agent-hood, to objects in a scene is inﬂuenced by the
properties assigned to the whole scene.
As far as attention is concerned, objects which are the parts of larger
objects can be treated similarly to objects which are contained in a scene,
with one extra item of information. For genuine subparts of larger objects,
the proto-predicate part expresses the role that a smaller object can play
with respect to a larger object. Thus part, traditionally regarded as a
relational concept, can be treated in the same way as agent. An object
is understood as a part relative to some larger whole, just as an object is
understood as an agent relative to some encompassing event. An example
illustrating this in the box notation is:
face
part
bulbous
nose
part
blue
eye
part
blue
eye
Not all linguistically two-place relations need be represented with a
‘scene-describing’ predicate at the top scene level. Given the context-
sensitivity of size judgements, it seems reasonable to claim that attribu-
tions of bigness and smallness, for example, can be made relative to the
other objects in the scene. So the following diagram would correspond to
the judgement that one cat is bigger than another.
cat
big
cat
small
On its own, a box such as cat, big would represent a single object,
an unusually big cat (i.e. big-for-a-cat). Recall Sarris (1998)’s experiments
Towards Human Semantics 151
showing that chickens can be trained to make such perceptual judgements
as small-for-a-red-cube and big-for-a-green-cube (of same-sized cubes).
I imagine that there would be some cognitive dissonance experienced in
trying simultaneously to grasp the complex idea of a small-for-a-horse
horse being bigger than a big-for-a-dog dog.
To take another comparative example, suppose that a captive chimp
remembers from experience that, when it comes to tickling, Laura is better
at it than Herb, but when it comes to feeding, Herb is a much more
satisfactory or generous feeder than Laura. We might represent these two
stored experiences as:
tickling
laura
good herb
feeding laura
herb
good
More directly sensory examples might be:
size
balloon
big pebble versus
weight ballo on
pebble
big
You get the idea, suggesting that, possibly, a single relativized concept
applies to judgements of both size and weight. Nothing hangs on this
speciﬁc claim; we are just exploring the territory here.
In human languages, relational words which are usually interpreted as
asymmetric, like stab, can be made symmetric by the addition of some
particle indicating reciprocity, as with English each other. If Caesar and
Brutus stab each other in the same event, they both have the agent
property, and neither participant can be distinguished as the sole animate
wilfully moving participant in the event.
As noted earlier, the perceptual distinction between global and local
attention shows a kind of doublethink that is alien to standard logic. The
box notation captures in one diagram the blended representation pro-
duced jointly by the parallel global process and the serial local processes.
By allowing the terms in inner boxes to be implicitly relativized to the
predicates in the outer box, it does not need to be stated explicitly that, to
use the classic example, Brutus is the Agent with respect to a particular
occasion of stabbing, notated as:
stab(e) ∧ agent(brutus,e)
152 The Origins of Meaning
The global/local point can also be made by recalling Luria’s simul-
tanagnosic patient (Farah 1990, pp. 22–23), who could recognize a
rectangle formed by six dots, but not count the dots; if he focused on
one of the dots, he lost sight of the rectangle. We need, for normal
higher animals, a way of representing the fact that a scene is both one
rectangle and some number (up to four) of dots. The box notation does
this straightforwardly:
rectangle dot dot dot dot
The box notation captures this natural perceptual ‘doublethink’, using
an iconic analogue of a scene and its participants, simultaneously por-
trayed. (Remember that the spatial arrangement of boxes at the same level
is entirely arbitrary; the only iconic feature is the containment relation
between outer and inner boxes.) A simultanagnosic patient could only
hold one box and its predicates at a time. Relating these diagrams to
the details of global and local attention, consider, for example, a scene
consisting of meat and potatoes on a plate. The predicates that come to
mind on making a quick global scan of this scene may be some, all or
none of the following: plate, potatoes, meat, brown, steaming.
If only the last four come to mind (i.e. if the plate is not salient), we get,
on a quick global scan:
meat
potatoes
steaming
brown
Result of quick global scan
On focal attention to the individual objects in meal scene, the representa-
tion resolves to:
meat
brown
steaming
potatoes
Results of focal attention to objects in scene
Simultanagnosic patients cannot handle both levels at once. Hence their
typical inability to diagnose the who-did-what-to-whom information in a
scene, as reported by Luria (1959) and Boutsen and Humphreys (1999).
The claimed elimination of two- and three-place predicates is not as
radical as may be thought. Some animals can make same/different
judgements of an array of objects. I suggest that this can be analysed as
Towards Human Semantics 153
the animal perceiving a sameness situation, predicated of a whole single
scene, but with a requirement that such a scene contain more than one
object. An animal can only arrive at a same judgement on the basis
of more than one object. We might represent a judgement of Alex the
parrot’s as:
same-colour
cube
red
ball
red
Spatial relationships between a large background and a foregrounded
object, typically expressed in English by prepositions, such as in and
on, can be naturally analysed as having the nature of the background
delivered by global attention and the foreground object as the object of
local attention, as in these examples:
sky
blue
eagle
flying
wide
surface
ceiling
fly
small
Other spatial relationships, between roughly equally foregrounded
objects, can be analysed as kinds of static event, with the participants
taking diﬀerent roles, as below:
on
lizard
rest
rock
support in termite
hole
container
Thus relationships such as are conveyed by English propositions like on,
under, over, and below can be analysed as applying to whole scenes, with
the requirement that such scenes contain two relevant objects. As with
other cases discussed earlier, the asymmetry of such relations can be
captured by showing some monadic property of one of the participants
not shared by the other. Dyadic relational concepts such as on and in
can only be attributed to a scene containing two objects.
The proposal for this box notation is programmatic. The programme
stretches in two directions: backwards to animal representations, and
forwards to the formalisms best suited for representing the meanings of
human sentences. It should be clear that not all meanings expressible in
human languages ought to be representable in this notation. In particular,
we should make no attempt to represent any rhetorical aspect of meaning
pertinent only to the communicative presentation of information, rather
than to the bare content of a scene or event. The following are instances
of sets of English expressions which would all be assigned the same rep-
resentations in the proposed notation, assuming the relevant scenes are
observed by an ape:
154 The Origins of Meaning
r Active/passive pairs:
– Kanzi gave Matata a banana
– Matata was given a banana by Kanzi
– A banana was given to Matata by Kanzi
r Various Topicalization devices:
– Kanzi bit Matata
– Matata, Kanzi bit her
– It was Matata that Kanzi bit
r Some relative clause or modifying structures:
– Kanzi bit the chimp that was screaming
– Kanzi bit the screaming chimp
– The chimp that Kanzi bit was screaming
– The screaming one that Kanzi bit was a chimp
In classical semantic terms, the members of these sets of sentences have
the same truth conditions, although their communicative eﬀects vary. At
this stage, we are only concerned with animals, pre-communicative mental
representations. For the same reason, no diﬀerence corresponding to that
between deﬁnite and indeﬁnite noun phrases (e.g. the bird versus a bird) is
necessary, as this is a diﬀerence arising out of communicative discourse.
Logical notation is designed to be unambiguous, unlike natural lan-
guage expressions, which are notoriously ambiguous. The representations
attributed to animals observing scenes should be similarly unambiguous,
although they may well be vague. Ambiguity arises when an expres-
sion can be paraphrased in several diﬀerent ways which are not them-
selves paraphrases of each other. For example, ripe bananas and grapes is
ambiguous, because it can be paraphrased by both grapes and ripe bananas
and ripe bananas and ripe grapes, and these two do not mean the same
thing (the former includes more fruit, even unripe grapes, than the latter).
In contrast, all predicates are at least somewhat vague, or fuzzy, in their
denotation—the range of things, scenes, and events that they can apply to
in the world. A well-known English example is the respective denotations
of tree and bush, which blend into each other.
Animals’ mental representations of scenes and events are rooted in
perception. It follows that concepts that are not rather directly based on
perception (or proprioception) will have no terms for them. Thus I assume
that animals have no access to human concepts such as 342, unicorn,
Thursday, and bachelor. Perhaps the furthest that animals manage
to get from purely perceptual concepts is concepts of social relations, such
as dominant or subordinate, and even these are based on observa-
tion of concrete events, such as ﬁghts.
Towards Human Semantics 155
In both directions, that of human meaning, and that of animal repre-
sentations, empirical work is called for. On the animal side, relevant ques-
tions include: which species make any distinction at all between global and
local attention? What degree of nesting (zooming-in) from more global to
more local levels are closely related primates capable of? In what sensory
modalities is the global/local distinction found in various species? What
range of concepts can animals of various species apply at the global level?
And so on.
On the side of human language, the main question is obviously how
far this box notation, with its implicit claim that meanings can be con-
ceived as conjunctions of monadic predicates, is adequate to represent
all the complex types of meaning that humans are capable of expressing
in language. As mentioned earlier, Pietroski (2005) has made a start on
the linguistic side, suggesting a programme to explore the possibility that
in general ‘when expressions are concatenated, they are interpreted as
(conjoinable) monadic predicates’ (p. 28). It is not my purpose here to
delve deeper into human linguistic semantics, and I will restrict myself
to a few more illustrative examples, aiming to show that the notational
proposal is not prima facie obviously untenable for some simple examples
that might at ﬁrst blush appear to be problematic.
The two representations below are equivalent.
torn-right-ear(x) & sweaty-smelling(x) & struts(x)
torn-right-ear
sweaty-smelling
struts
Inclusion of predicates in the same box gives the same information as
applying predicates to the same individual variable. These are alternative
notational representations of a scene with one individual. But the new box
notation is more appropriate for representation of oﬄine stored knowl-
edge than the more traditional representation with variables as arguments
of predicates. In section 4.2 a correspondence was claimed between the
logical individual variables (w, x, y, z) and the indices used by the visual
system in tracking a limited number of objects in a scene. But when the
objects are no longer present, the visual indices are no longer correlated
with them. All that is left, after perceiving an object and taking in some
of its properties, is the content of the information taken in, namely the
properties, plus the information that they all came from the same object.
This latter information is captured by grouping the predicates from one
object in the same box. One box, one object. Santos et al. (2002) show how
156 The Origins of Meaning
macaques store contentful information about the properties of objects to
maintain them as separate known individuals when they are no longer in
view. The representation of known, but not currently perceived, objects is
as bundles of features.
This last example might seem to raise the problem that we have lost the
distinction between truth and reference. That is, the same box notation,
it is claimed, can be translated either by the sentence There’s someone
with a torn right ear, sweaty-smelling and strutting or by the noun phrase
contained in this sentence, after There’s. Traditionally, sentences are true
and noun phrases refer. It is important to recall here that we are not
(yet) discussing language. Carstairs-McCarthy (1999) argues at length
that this traditional philosophical distinction has no basis outside public
language. The truth/reference relation to the world, he argues, is all the
same thing. The terms have just been selectively applied according to
which kind of grammatical expression they apply to: the sentence-to-
world relation is called ‘truth’, and the NP-to-world relation is called
reference. Concurring arguments are given in Stainton (2004a, 2004b),
and Hurford (2007). The box diagrams used here represent scenes that
an animal can in some sense comprehend. Take a human analogy. When
you see, and register, Peter coming into view, what thought passes through
your mind, a sentence-thought (There’s Peter) or a NP-thought (Peter)?
To the extent that humans actually verbalize when thinking, this can be
answered by observation, and in my experience, both sentences and NPs
are uttered in such circumstances. But animals, of course, do not verbalize
their thoughts, and it makes no sense to ask such a question in the case of
a languageless animal. Put the same question in terms of retrieved mem-
ories: do you bring to mind Peter entering (NP), Peter’s entrance (NP),
or that Peter entered (sentence)? Surely you can’t tell the diﬀerence. The
importance of the truth/reference distinction is also called into question
by the kind of data that Chomsky (1970) cites, data such as The enemy
destroyed the city versus the enemy’s destruction of the city. The fact that
any sentence can be freely nominalized for purposes of embedding into
a higher clause, without substantial eﬀect on the propositional content,
indicates a commonality between sentences and NPs.
If desired, we can still dissect our box diagrams in a way that ﬁts an
intuitive distinction between a referring component and a truth-claiming
component. A box, devoid of its predicate contents, may be said to
refer to whatever object in the world is being attended to in the rep-
resented scene. A box, remember, corresponds to a logical individual
variable, such as x or y. These variables have no predicative content. Pure
Towards Human Semantics 157
reference, as in deictic pointing, is descriptively uninformative. The predi-
cates inside a box can then be said to make truth claims about the object
referred to.
5.5 armchair ontology of objects, events, and scenes
The notation developed in the preceding sections exploited the psycho-
logical diﬀerence between the quick and parallel taking in of a scene with
several participants, as opposed to the serial detailed local attention to
the individual participants in the scene, registering relevant conjunctions
of their features. I also emphasized that attention could zoom in on a
single object in a scene, so that, in eﬀect, that object becomes the new
scene, and its parts, or participants, can be subject to local attention at a
‘deeper’ level. Thus the assumed ontology makes no essential distinction
between some traditional ontological categories, such as objects, events,
and scenes.
There are various ways of interpreting the business of ontology,
reﬂected in the following two rather diﬀerent questions. What diﬀerent
kinds of entities does the world really contain? What diﬀerent kinds of
entities do languages (typically, alas, meaning just English) seem to treat
the world as containing? I have tried to avoid these approaches, and to
ask, guided by Occam’s razor: What kinds of entities do our perceptual
attentional systems seem to treat the world as containing? And the answer,
as expressed in the box notation, has been that there are only two basic
kinds of entities: (1) objects/events/scenes—all the same kind of thing;
and (2) properties, which can be variously static or dynamic and can
impose constraints on the objects/events/scenes that they are properties
of. Static and dynamic features of an object are treated alike by these
attention mechanisms (Nakayama and Silverman 1986). The quick global
view can register either colour, or shape, or motion as individual features,
but cannot accurately register how these features are conjoined in any
one object. Thus motion, a dynamic feature, behaves in this respect like
colour or shape, which are static features. Many examples were given in
the preceding sections.
We humans have strong intuitions about the diﬀerence between
objects and events, and this distinction rests primarily on the sta-
tic/dynamic dimension. Long interweaving traditions in philosophy have
variously emphasized dynamic processes (starting as far as we know with
Heraclitus) or static things and substances. A fascination with static things
and their enduring relations belies a deep, and wholly understandable,
158 The Origins of Meaning
insecurity in the face of change. We like things to be reliably there. But
time passes inexorably, and life is caught up in inevitable change, as
things perish and are replaced by other things, of diﬀerent kinds. Many
sciences are host to a tension between a bold embrace of the inevitability
of process, and instincts to construct worlds (material or theoretical)
which are at least tolerably static. In linguistics Humboldt (1836, p. 150)
emphasized process: ‘Language is not a product (Ergon), but an activ-
ity (Energeia).’20
Modern generative grammar, by contrast, has strongly
emphasized grammars as (mental) objects. In physics the contrast is seen
in the puzzling apparent alternatives of light being composed of waves
or particles, and in the recognition of the relation between energy and
matter.
In a scientiﬁc sense, we know that objects are nothing but slow events,
some slower than others. Mesons are extremely fast events, existing appar-
ently for less than a millionth of a second; adult mayﬂies are slower events,
living for only a day; and we individual humans are objects that will
with luck exist for as much as a hundred years, making us even slower
events. Less loftily, ordinary folk and their animals live in a world in
which some things last for so long (like the rocks of Greenland or my
father’s bathrobe) that we need not worry about them changing, while the
fabric of our lives—breathing, moving, eating, and getting hungry again—
involves continuous negotiation of change. It seems natural and practical
to distinguish between objects and events, while recognizing that there
are a few borderline cases, like ﬂames, ocean waves, and shooting stars.
Where we humans naturally draw the line between objects and events is
entirely relative to our size, our lifespan and life rhythms, and our per-
ceptual mechanisms (and to a limited extent to our particular cultures).
There is no absolute non-relative fact of the matter distinguishing objects
from events. Psychological experiments on object permanence, discussed
in Chapter 3, are in fact testing the extent to which natural adult human
concepts of objecthood are shared by other animals and infants.
Metaphysical discussion by philosophers and logicians usually starts
from the human intuition of a basic ontological diﬀerence between objects
and events. Some philosophers end up holding fast to the distinction,
at the expense of possibly absurd reinterpretations of what events and
objects ‘really’ are. Whitehead (1919), for example, retained a ﬁrm dis-
tinction. ‘Objects convey the permanences recognised in events, and are
20
In German: ‘Sie selbst (die Sprache) ist kein Werk (Ergon), sondern eine Thätigkeit
(Energeia).’
Towards Human Semantics 159
recognised as self-identical amid diﬀerent circumstances; that is to say,
the same object is related to diverse events’ (pp. 62–63). Whitehead’s
position, however, is maintained at the expense of a counterintuitive view
of events: ‘Events never change. Nature develops, in the sense that an event
e becomes part of an event e
...Thus we say that events pass but do not
change. The passage of an event is its passing into some other event which
is not it’ (p. 62). This robs the idea of an event of its dynamic nature, which
many would consider essential. To most people, including philosophical
ontologists, what Whitehead calls ‘passing’ between events is itself an
event. Compare Link (1997, p. 305): ‘Changes are events’. Whitehead also
ends up with a counterintuitive view of objects. For example: ‘It is an error
to ascribe parts to objects. ...[I]t is natural to think of various parts of a
stone, simultaneously existing. Such a conception confuses the stone as
an object with the event which exhibits the actual relations of the stone
within nature’ (Whitehead 1919, p. 65). Again, ‘The fundamental rule is
that events have parts and that—except in a derivative sense, from their
relations to events,—objects have no parts’ (p. 66).
Whitehead was attempting to ﬁnd a ‘real’ ontology, and not a scheme
related to human perception.
Objects and events are only waveringly discriminated in common thought....
The struggle to make precise the concept of these objects [of common life]
either forces us back to the sense-objects or forward to the scientiﬁc objects.
The diﬃculty is chieﬂy one of making thought clear. That there is a perception
of an object with self-identity, is shown by the common usage of mankind.
Indeed these perceptual objects forced upon mankind—and seemingly also
on animals, unless it be those of the lowest type—their knowledge of the
objectiﬁed character of nature. But the confusion of the object, which is a
unity, with the events, which have parts, is always imminent.
(Whitehead 1919, pp. 64–66)
So, for ‘common thought’ at least, the object/event distinction is not so
hard and fast. Whitehead’s concept of an event, essentially static, with
objects as parts, is more like a ‘state of aﬀairs’ or situation, a set of
relations between objects. He appeared not to consider ‘events’ involving
single objects.
More recently, Link (1997) has argued for a more graded view. ‘Once we
admit temporal parts of individuals the dividing line between individuals
and events is already somewhat obscured’ (p. 281).
The thrust of my line of reasoning is really that our regular objects are more
‘abstract’ than it is usually assumed. While it is often granted that events are
160 The Origins of Meaning
particulars in space and time and yet abstract ...regular objects are said to
be concrete, not abstract particulars. What I am saying here is that if that
is the only diﬀerence between objects and events then that is not much of a
diﬀerence after all. ...[A] meteor is an object and then again an event, viz. the
phenomenon of its incandescence, just depending on the way we look at it.
(Link 1997, p. 283)
Link proceeds to articulate a view of ‘processes as the one category that
I like to think of as underlying both individuals and events’ (p. 284).
The ensuing discussion is technical and algebraic, but clearly here is a
modern ontologist who rejects a sharp distinction between objects and
events. Schein (2002, p. 279), a philosopher and formal semanticist, con-
curs: ‘it is with respect to medium-grained events that we appear to talk
about objects and events in roughly the same way with roughly the same
precision’.
Dynamic events have preoccupied ontologists, but remarkably little
attention has been paid to their static counterpart, which we may call
‘situations’ or ‘states’. Brutus stabbing Caesar is a prototypical event,
but Caesar lying dead on the ﬂoor is a situation. In a situation, nothing
(relevant) changes. In a situation with several participants, the relation
between the participants persists. Just as the object/event distinction is a
graded continuum, so too is the event/state distinction. Kamp and Reyle
(1993, p. 507) agree: ‘we are led to conclude (i) that not every sentence
can be treated as the description of an event; (ii) that some sentences
must rather be seen as descriptions of states; and (iii) that the division
between event-describing and state-describing sentences appears to be
graded rather than sharp.’
Davidson (1967) seminally proposed mapping sentences describing
actions onto representations invoking a distinct ontological category of
events. A whole stream of formal semantics, kicked oﬀ by Parsons (1990),
has built on this idea. But the idea is centrally about language, and the
arguments are based upon the particular ways in which sentences in
human languages put their parts together. Thus the apparent distinctness
of events as an ontological category may not necessarily hold of pre-
linguistic cognition. There are signiﬁcant philosophical counterarguments
that, even for language, ‘any philosophical theory of events should be
extended to cover states as well, because the diﬀerences between them are
of the superﬁcial kind that would seem signiﬁcant only to someone doing
the kind of “conceptual analysis” that shades of into mere lexicography’
(Bennett 1988, p. 7). An alternative to the Davidsonian ontology has been
Towards Human Semantics 161
proposed by Kim (1969, 1976). The sometimes assumed ubiquity of event
variables in the semantics of sentences has been criticized by Maienborn
(2005). There is no space to go into the hairy details of these philosophico-
semantic debates here. Suﬃce it to say that enough doubt has been cast on
ontologies that distinguish objects from events, or events from states, or
states from objects, to keep open the possibility of the much more reduced
ontology that I have proposed.
To summarize, I envisage a single type of fact, whose internal properties
may vary, depending on the way we look at them, between relatively
dynamic and relatively static, and according to the number of objects they
involve. This is illustrated by the examples below
Participant objects Static scenes Dynamic events
0 It’s cold It’s raining
freezing weather It’s snowing
1 (This is) a knife Something twinkles
The knife falls
2 (There’s) a knife on the ﬂoor Brutus picks up the knife
The knife is on the ﬂoor Brutus strikes Caesar
3 (There’s) a knife on the ﬂoor
near Caesar
Brutus stabs Caesar with a
knife
A concomitant of the possibility of shifting back and forth between local
and global attention is that some properties or predicates can sometimes
be attributed to a whole scene and sometimes to one of its partipants. In
the case of Brutus violently killing Caesar, it may be said that the whole
event was violent or that Brutus was violent. Both are true. Poor old
Caesar was not violent on that occasion, as far as this description tells us.
In the case of a twinkling star, one may say that there is a twinkling event
involving a star, or that it is not the event, but its participant object, the
star, that twinkles. In the case of a man walking, one may say that there is a
walking event involving a man, or that it is not the event but its participant
object, the man, who is walking. In such cases of one-participant events,
the distinction seems to be without content. The changing object is the
event.
Let me forestall a possible linguistic objection here. The two English
phrases the changing object and the changing of the object (or the object’s
changing) are not synonymous. In the former, the noun object is the
grammatical head of the phrase, and the phrase denotes the object; in
the latter, the grammatical head is the nominalized verb changing and the
162 The Origins of Meaning
phrase denotes what happens to the object. Given language, it is possible
to make such distinctions. And such distinctions can in principle be useful
when embedded in other expressions, although in fact English speakers, at
least, do not often avail themselves of this possibility. Thus, for example,
if I use The changing weather annoyed me, this is most naturally taken as
saying the same as The changing of the weather annoyed me. Now try to
picture a visual scene to which one of the two phrases, the changing object
and the changing of the object, but not the other, applies. You can’t see
the changing of an object without seeing the object changing, and vice
versa. It is just a diﬀerence of focus of attention, which can be reﬂected
in language, as it is in these two English phrases. The point is eloquently
made by Derek Bickerton:
The subject–predicate distinction in language is so fundamental, and so much
taken for granted, that it is perhaps worth emphasizing that it corresponds to
nothing in nature. There is no sense in which we can perceive a creature with-
out simultaneously perceiving that it is doing something—sleeping, grazing,
walking, ﬂying—and no way in which we can see a behavior like grazing,
ﬂying, sleeping, or walking without simultaneously seeing the creature that
performs it. (Bickerton 1990, p. 39)
In this part of the book, I am concerned with the representations of the
world formed by pre-linguistic creatures, on the basis of their perceptions.
The properties picked out by attention are to some extent primed by
the animal’s phylogeny and previous experience. But depending on local
and temporal circumstances, an animal is still ‘free’ to allow diﬀerent
properties of an observed object to be selected for attention. To reuse a
previous example, when Fred the chimpanzee sees his conspeciﬁc whom
he knows well (and whom we have dubbed Mary) scratching, what may
come to his mind is one, or both, or even neither, of the following two
conjuncts:
mary
scratch
In language, the relative salience of one or the other of the two properties
mentioned can be conveyed by expressions such as Mary, who happens to
be scratching versus a scratching event, which happened to involve Mary.
Using sentences, rather than NPs, the event/scene/object could be vari-
ously described, with diﬀerent emphases, as Mary was scratching or The
one scratching was Mary. Obviously there will be other properties of Mary
that simply do not come to attention on some particular occasion.
Towards Human Semantics 163
Similar comments also apply when more than one object is involved. A
disinterested observer of events in the Roman senate might, for example,
only be interested in the fact that both Brutus and Caesar are present,
and not care about what they are doing to each other. If we observe two
people together, because of our overwhelming interest in social relations,
we are typically very interested in what, if anything, they are doing to each
other. But take away the factor of social empathy, and it is possible to view
a scene with several objects (which may be dynamically interacting) and
only be interested in their individual properties. A socially unempathic
person fascinated by cataloguing and counting animal species may see
a lion attacking a zebra and ﬁnd the most salient features of the scene
to be the lionhood of one participant and the zebrahood of the other,
with scarce regard for the action, because it doesn’t add to his score of
species collected. A ruthless prison jailer checking on inmates late at night
may only note who is present in a cell and pay no attention to what, if
anything, they are doing to each other. Normal people ﬁnd it hard to be so
detached from signiﬁcant activities, and thus two-place action predicates
tend to spring easily to mind. But with inanimate objects, among which
there cannot be wilful activity, like the meat and potatoes on a dinner
plate, a scene which can be taken in at a glance, no two-place predicate
springs to mind, although both the meat and the potatoes are participants
in the scene.
We can’t just end on meat and potatoes. Remember, this chapter was
a linguistic semanticist tidying house so that neighbouring psychologists
and neuroscientists won’t be shocked or baﬄed when they pay a visit, as
they ought, if they have any interest in the evolution of language. The
technical jargon and formulae of linguistic semantics can be formidable
to an outsider, and I know of distinguished and serious neuroscientists
who have given up on linguistic theory because of its impenetrability. One
aim of this chapter was to reduce this impenetrability. No one can say
that the box diagrams that I have proposed aren’t simple, even though
arguing towards them, and away from the ontologically richer repre-
sentations used by linguists, necessarily got to grips with some of the
old complexity. The simpliﬁcation is not mere dumbing-down for non-
linguists. The simple box diagrams are proposed seriously as suﬃcient to
capture representations of scenes in the world in the minds of language-
less creatures, near the brink of language, like apes. The notation bears
a recognizable relation to the shape of simple propositions as conceived
by logic, in particular incorporating the pre-linguistic counterparts of
predicates and their arguments, and conjunctions of propositions. Thus,
164 The Origins of Meaning
evolutionary continuity between non-humans and humans becomes easier
to envisage.
As I wrote before, consider these proposals on their merits. If they don’t
deserve to be torn down, build on them. There is plenty more to do. I have
not discussed such important questions as negation, quantiﬁcation, and
inference in the minds of pre-linguistic animals. In tackling such ques-
tions, start your thinking, if possible, where the animals are, by imagining
yourself in a non-linguistic state, but otherwise cognitively pretty much as
you are. José Luis Bermúdez, in his philosophical monograph Thinking
without Words (Bermúdez 2003), has begun to tackle some of these prob-
lems in a way broadly, but not wholly, consistent with my own thinking.
He makes some interesting suggestions, such as analysing negation in
non-linguistic thought as the use of unitary negative predicates, like un-
square or un-red, rather than negation being an operator on whole
propositions. In his account, this kind of ‘proto-negation’ can combine
with a grasp of ‘proto-causation’ to implement at least three inferen-
tial rules: modus ponens, modus tollens, and disjunctive syllogism. The
research programme is under way. Join in, or at least watch with interest.
These ﬁve chapters are as much proto-semantics as there is space for, here.
We have seen that animals lead quite rich cognitive lives, with signs of
the beginnings of much of what has often been taken to be distinctively
human. But mostly they keep this rich content to themselves. A ﬂip
subtitle for this book might have been What animals know, and why they
don’t tell. We’ve seen what they know; in Part II, on proto-pragmatics,
we’ll examine why they don’t tell.
PA R T T W O
Communication: What
and Why?
166 Communication: What and Why?
In Part II, we go public. The topic of Part I was animals’ internal
representations of an external world, with little or no consideration
of any possibility for public expression of these representations. But
animals are seldom alone, and most higher animals live in social groups,
involving interaction with others. Here, in Part II, we will explore the
evolutionary basis of publicly expressed meaning. Much of this involves
what linguists call ‘Pragmatics’, the study of interpersonal communica-
tion. The evolution of social behaviour ran in parallel with the evolution
of private representations of the world. Books necessarily have linear
structure, and the separation into private and public evolutionary devel-
opments is an expository convenience, not implying that the evolution
of private conceptions and of social behaviour were not intertwined;
they certainly were.
C H A P T E R S I X
Communication by Dyadic Acts
In this chapter, I will explore the most basic precursors of human
communication, dyadic interactions between animals. I use dyadic as syn-
onymous with non-referring. In a very basic sense, I can communicate
with you without referring to anything, as when I greet you with a cheery
‘Hi!’ The idea is to exclude, for the moment, consideration of communi-
cation which brings in (by referring to it) some third person, object, or
event other than the sender or receiver(s) of a signal. It seems intuitively
obvious that dyadic communication preceded triadic communication. The
subsequent chapter will move on to triadic communication, and the ori-
gins of reference. Dyadic communication is not restricted to interactions
between only two animals. Dyadic alludes to two roles: those of sender and
receiver(s) of a message. Mostly, only two animals are involved, but we will
see cases where an animal sends a signal intended for several others. First,
a little section on what is meant by communication.
6.1 roughly and readily defining ‘communication’
We want to cast an evolutionary light on human language, so we’ll start
by restricting the scope of the term communication to interactions between
animals of the same species. Starting with ﬂowers attracting insects would
be starting too far back, and possibly on the wrong track. The restriction
to conspeciﬁcs is motivated because two-way human communication has
not evolved in any symbiotic or parasitic relationship with other species.
Adversarial ‘communication’ between species does happen, as for exam-
ple when a plover diverts a predator away from its nest by trailing a wing
as if it were broken, or when an angler ﬁsh lures prey near to it by waving
the inbuilt ﬁshing rod on its nose. Cooperative communication between
humans and other species also occurs, as with a shepherd whistling
168 The Origins of Meaning
commands to a sheepdog, or a rider giving verbal commands to a horse.
But the animals don’t answer back in the same code; it is not a reciprocal
business like human language. It is characteristic of human language that
anyone can act as either producer or recipient of a message. Human
language shows no vestiges of traits that might have been involved in
communication with other species. But we can take an important general
message about communication from all these non-precursors to human
language. A form of communication exists because the producer of a signal
normally gets some beneﬁt from it.1
So we should look for the precursors of
human-to-human communication in behaviours that beneﬁt the signaller.
Deﬁning communication precisely is problematic, as I will brieﬂy show
(but we can draw a useful moral from this very diﬃculty, as we will also
see). For any proposed deﬁnition of communication, we can think of
some action ﬁtting the deﬁnition that we would not want, intuitively, to
characterize as communication, and certainly not as any kind of com-
munication that could be an evolutionary precursor to human language.
And conversely we can think of some other kind of action that is, coun-
terintuitively, excluded. Within the animal kingdom, communication is
sometimes deﬁned as any behaviour by one organism that inﬂuences the
state of another. This deﬁnition makes communication necessarily dyadic,
ruling out any idea of an animal communicating with itself. In the case
of human language, people certainly do talk usefully to themselves, and
we ought not to exclude the possibility that this can reasonably be seen
as a kind of communication. Clearly, however, communication between
two diﬀerent organisms is the prototypical norm, and a good place to
start. It seems reasonable to regard talking to oneself in language as
an evolutionary derivative of talking to other people. So we will stick
with the idea of dyadic interaction as the evolutionary basis for human
communication in language.
Deﬁning communication as behaviour that inﬂuences the state of
another is still too broad for our purposes. It stretches the idea of commu-
nication to say that the chimpanzee that has killed a chimpanzee from a
rival group has ‘communicated’ with the doomed chimp. A reasonable
way to narrow the term down might then be to exclude direct physi-
ological causes. The killer chimp’s behaviour directly causes the other
chimp’s death, by cutting oﬀ the blood supply to its brain, a physiological
eﬀect. Physiological is a term denoting one end of a spectrum of bodily
1
In a later chapter, we will return to the much more speciﬁc, and intricate, question of
the evolutionary cost–beneﬁt of multi-functional human language.
Communication by Dyadic Acts 169
processes, and is conveniently opposed to mental or cognitive, denoting
processes at the other end of the spectrum. Ultimately, however, deﬁning
communication as non-physiological causation also becomes problem-
atic, as, for example, loud noises may aﬀect the distribution of certain
neurotransmitters in a hearer’s brain, and therefore change the mood
of an animal hearing loud noises. The action of neurotransmitters is a
physiological process. But I do want to say that the fact of shouting loudly,
as opposed to whispering, can communicate something to the hearer. So
‘non-physiological’ is problematic. We could enter another deﬁnitional
quagmire by linking communication to properties such as deliberate or
voluntary. A man who doesn’t realize how loudly he is talking (so he’s
not deliberately talking loudly) nevertheless communicates something to
us just by the loudness of his talk. Sometimes it seems reasonable to
say that someone has ‘unintentionally communicated’ something to us.
So deliberateness won’t help us deﬁne communication. Finally, I won’t
even attempt to wade through the bog that ﬂourishes around the idea
of information (Shannon and Weaver 1963; Dretske 1981). Alan Grafen
(1990a, Section 7) also surveys diﬃculties in deﬁning signal, with similar
lack of success: ‘I am unable to oﬀer a formal deﬁnition of signals in terms
of game theory’ (p. 536).
Our deﬁnitional problems vindicate Wittgenstein (1953)’s point that
the best we can do is to ﬁnd family resemblances between diﬀerent
instances of things described by the same word. But, more impor-
tantly here, the diﬃculty of arriving at a completely satisfactory deﬁn-
ition of communication makes a central evolutionary point. The point
is that so-called communicative acts intimately share a landscape with
allegedly non-communicative acts. Communicative acts evolved out of
non-communicative acts. There was, in the evolutionary process, no
abrupt phase-change where one could say that communication started.
And many of the physical devices and actions clearly used nowadays
for communication are the same physical devices and actions that in
slightly diﬀerent situations and contexts are not obviously communicative.
A cough can be used diplomatically to communicate one’s presence to
someone engrossed in a book. Virtually the same cough can be given
simply to ease a tickle. Communicative acts are made of the same stuﬀ
as non-communicative acts.
So we will look for precursors to human-to-human communication in
non-communicative acts to a member of the same species that would have
beneﬁted the producer. It will be useful ﬁrst to sketch some elements of
the ﬁrst target of our evolutionary story: modern human speech acts.
170 The Origins of Meaning
6.2 pragmatic origins
This section outlines some basic linguistic pragmatics, especially the the-
ory of speech acts, so that we can get an idea of where we are going, what
kinds of facts about human use of language we are aiming to account for
in evolutionary terms. The key idea is that language is used by people to
do things to each other.
‘Actions speak louder than words’ is a popular proverb. A ‘man of
action’ is often thought to be a man of few words. In the popular imagina-
tion, actions and words are exclusive alternatives. ‘Stop talking and DO
something’, people often say. But in fact many modern human actions
can be carried out in words, and some only in words. The American
Declaration of Independence, though consisting only of words, was a
signiﬁcant historical act. Words and sentences are not merely descriptive,
but can be used to carry out actions. Among the most signiﬁcant events
in history are a few which in themselves have no linguistic content at all,
such as ﬂoods, droughts, and volcanic eruptions, which are not caused by
human agency. Some other great events, such as battles, executions, and
discoveries, which are not themselves verbal events, mainly derive their
historic signiﬁcance from the linguistic acts which surround or follow
them, such as surrender, deﬁant declarations from the scaﬀold, or terri-
torial claims. Linguistic acts shape history. At a more mundane level, they
shape the lives of individuals, in the form of marriage vows, contracts, or
merely agreements to meet for lunch. The point was nicely expressed in the
title of the seminal book on speech acts, J. L.Austin’s How to Do Things
with Words (with the emphasis on Do) (Austin 1962). There is a large set
of conventional acts which we normally carry out with words, acts such
as thanking, apologizing, complaining, congratulating, greeting, taking
leave, challenging, and warning. Human life is clearly lifted a level above
animal life by the possibility of such verbal acts. Austin tried for a while to
separate sentences out into two sorts: those that perform acts, and those
that simply describe events or situations. But it is generally agreed now
that almost all sentences carry both sorts of meaning simultaneously. If I
say to a store manager ‘The eggs I bought here yesterday were all stale’, I
am simultaneously carrying out the act of complaining and describing a
state of aﬀairs.
There are just a few expressions (one cannot really call them sen-
tences) in all languages which are purely act-performing. Short colloquial
greetings such as Hello! and Hi! are just act-performing words; they
don’t describe anything, and they can’t be said to be true or false, as a
Communication by Dyadic Acts 171
description can. Here is a table of some such expressions used in English-
speaking communities.
Expression Function
Hello Greeting
Bye! Taking leave
Hey! Loudly attracting attention
pssst! Discretely attracting attention
Ta (British English) Thanking
Sorry Apologizing
These expressions all carry out social acts, that is they involve interac-
tion with another person. (In cultures where people routinely deal with
animals, such a list can be extended to include ‘words’ used to give
commands to animals.) In addition to these necessarily social act-words,
there are some which do not absolutely require the involvement of another
person; they can be said to oneself. Examples are:
Expression Function
‘tut tut’ (alveolar click, Expressing disapproval
sometimes repeated) or disappointment
Mmmm Expressing sensual pleasure
Hmmmm Expressing thoughtfulness or doubt
Pah! Expressing contempt
Aha! Expressing surprise at a discovery
Ouch! Expressing pain
Phew! Expressing relief
Expressions such as these can be taken to indicate an internal state of
the speaker. As such they are intermediate between purely ‘doing’ words
like Hello and obviously descriptive expressions like It’s raining. Usually,
however, one does not use such ‘expressive’ words without some purpose
of aﬀecting a hearer somehow—what would be the point of uttering them
otherwise? In fact, there are no expressions in any language which can
only be used descriptively, that is without the possibility of any socially
signiﬁcant act being carried out when they are uttered. If one says ‘It’s
172 The Origins of Meaning
Figure 6.1 Large open-ended area = All meaningful expressions in a lan-
guage. Small shaded area = Expressions such as Hello and Hey! with purely
illocutionary, non-propositional, meaning.
raining’ certainly one is describing a situation, but one typically has some
purpose in mind, such as indirectly warning someone or advising them, or
indeed jokingly complaining. We thus ﬁnd an asymmetric situation. The
great majority, but not all, of the expressions in a language have meaning-
ful content which is descriptive of some state of aﬀairs; all expressions in
a language can be used to carry out acts of some sort; and a tiny minority
of expressions are used only for carrying out acts, and have no descriptive
content. To introduce some terminology, the great majority of complete
expressions in a language have propositional content; all sentences in a
language have potential illocutionary force; and a tiny minority of expres-
sions have no propositional content, but only conventional illocutionary
force. In Figure 6.1 above this asymmetric situation is shown as a tiny
ﬁnite pool of purely illocutionary expressions located in an open-ended
ocean of expressions which, besides having illocutionary potential, also
have descriptive, propositional content.
It is strongly typical of modern human utterances that they involve an
intended eﬀect on a hearer. Even an utterance like ‘Mmmm’ expressing
sensual pleasure, which may sometimes be uttered to nobody but one-
self, is conventionally used to inform someone else of one’s pleasure. We
are naturally starting our investigation into human communication with
an implicit deﬁnition of utterance which rules out signals not typically
intended to have an eﬀect on a hearer. In modern human life, there are
borderline cases, such as belches and farts, which are mostly involuntary
and uncommunicative, but which can be put to communicative use in
atypical circumstances. Thus intended eﬀect on a hearer is a core ingredient
of modern human communication, and I will take it to be an evolutionary
foundation.
By contrast, while the vast majority of modern human utterances do
have some propositional, or descriptive, content, there is a small nucleus
of clear cases which do not, such as ‘Hello’, ‘Hey!’, and ‘Bye’. The
descriptive or propositional content of utterances is based on the internal
representations of the world which was the subject of Part I of this book,
‘Meaning before Communication’. Animals have well-developed internal
Communication by Dyadic Acts 173
representations of objects, scenes, and events in the world, without ever
communicating these representations to other animals. The aboutness, or
Intentionality,2
of modern human utterances derives from the aboutness
or Intentionality of pre-linguistic mental representations. As an indepen-
dent and parallel evolutionary development, I shall suggest, animals used
controlled gestures and noises to have an eﬀect on each other, but these
ﬁrst signals, like modern ‘Hello’, were not about any object, event, or
scene in the outside world. These ﬁrst signals were purely dyadic, involving
only the signaller and the recipient, and not referring to any third object,
and not being true of any situation. In short, I advance the following
hypothesis:
Communicative Act Foundation hypothesis: Primitive other-directed acts
descriptive of nothing outside the signaller formed the original communica-
tive component of the foundation upon which grew later complex utterance
types combining illocutionary force with descriptive content.
In this view, there might be an evolutionary progression that we can mimic
in modern terms as follows:
Aha! simply expressing surprise (to an addressee),
Aha, blackberries! expressing surprise, and identifying the topic or cause of
surprise,
Aha, John’s coming! describing a situation and simultaneously conveying sur-
prise about it.
or
Hey! attracting attention,
Hey, John! attracting attention and simultaneously identifying the addressee,
Hey, John, your shoelace is undone describing a situation and simultaneously
attracting the attention of the addressee.
There is nothing logically compelling about the Communicative Act
Foundation hypothesis. Nothing inherent to either speech acts or
descriptive language makes it necessarily true that pure speech acts had
to precede descriptive language. An alternative hypothesis is conceivable:
Independent Description hypothesis: Utterances with descriptive content arose
independently of any illocutionary expressions with intended eﬀects on
receivers.
2
Recall the use of Intentionality with a capital I for aboutness. The word intentionality,
derived from the verb intend, meaning an animal’s capacity to intend to do things, is spelt
with a small i.
174 The Origins of Meaning
It is perhaps conceivable that propositional descriptive language arose
separately from speech acts, as a way of externalizing our thoughts about
the world, but not communicating them to any other person. One might
notice that a certain tree has good fruit and for some reason mutter to
oneself, ‘That tree has good fruit’. One might perhaps do this to help
one remember where the good fruit is, using the utterance as a private
memory-reinforcer. Or one might ﬁnd that thinking aloud helped one’s
mental calculations about the best way to get around the foraging ground.
There need be no interaction with another person, hence no kind of
social act. Although Chomsky is generally reluctant to engage in evo-
lutionary speculation, the above Independent Description hypothesis is
more in line with his views on the function of language, as expressed, for
example, in:
Suppose that in the quiet of my study I think about a problem, using lan-
guage, and even write down what I think. Suppose that someone speaks
honestly, merely out of a sense of integrity, fully aware that his audience will
refuse to comprehend or even consider what he is saying. Consider informal
conversation conducted for the sole purpose of maintaining casual friendly
relations, with no particular concern as to its content. Are these examples of
‘communication’? If so, what do we mean by ‘communication’ in the absence
of an audience, or with an audience assumed to be completely unresponsive,
or with no intention to convey information or modify belief or attitude?
It seems that either we must deprive the notion ‘communication’ of all
signiﬁcance, or else we must reject the view that the purpose of language is
communication. (Chomsky 1980, p. 230)
In the real world, a person would not be successful in ‘maintaining
casual friendly relations’ if he had ‘no particular concern as to the content’
of his utterances. The quality of honesty and the ‘sense of integrity’ that
Chomsky mentions are arguably (some would say obviously) social in
origin. Indeed, people do occasionally utter descriptive sentences for non-
social reasons, without any intended eﬀect on a hearer, as when talking
to oneself. It is logically conceivable that this was the ﬁrst use of such
sentences. There is no logical need to assume that the descriptive language
arose on the back of calls with originally purely illocutionary (speech act,
social coinage) force. But a powerful argument telling against such non-
social origin is the fact that in a whole society, the same words are used
by all people, even for talking to oneself. Talking to oneself goes a step
beyond solipsistic thinking. Much thought is not in words. Talking to
oneself involves putting publicly available arbitrary labels on the elements
Communication by Dyadic Acts 175
of the thoughts. Here I envisage the elements of thoughts to be such as
the pre-linguistic predicates discussed extensively in Part I of this book.
If the ﬁrst case of attaching arbitrary labels to elements of thought were
for some private non-social purpose, there would have been no reason for
all members of a social group to use the same labels. If the external labels
were not intended to have any eﬀect on another creature, why would such
standardized labels arise?
Accordingly I shall pursue the idea that the ﬁrst communicative acts
between the remote ancestors of modern humans were of the purely illo-
cutionary variety, like ‘Hey!’ and ‘Hello!’ Nowadays purely illocutionary
expressions occupy a very marginal status in modern languages. They are
mostly, syntactically, interjections, which means that they have no place
within the system of multi-word expressions deﬁned by the grammar of
the language concerned. The only way most such expressions can be
integrated into an English sentence is by quoting them. Hello, Bye, and
Hey can be followed by a person’s name, as in Hey, John!, but that is the
extent of the possible integration of these expressions into the English
syntactic system. Many of these expressions also lie outside the normal
English phonological system for forming words: many contain no vowel
sound, and some contain consonantal sounds, such as clicks, not found in
any regular English word. A slightly more integrated, but still marginal,
use of purely illocutionary expressions in English is the insertion of taboo
words into angry discourse, as for example ‘Get your fucking hands oﬀ
my car’. The insertion of such words certainly adds no descriptive content
to utterances, and is surely a marker of the speaker’s momentary stance
towards the hearer, be it anger or non-conformist solidarity. Similarly,
inserting words like Sweetie, Honey, and Darling into discourse between
intimates adds no descriptive content but reinforces a social relation
between speaker and hearer. In more public discourse, the English word
please inserted into a sentence carries no descriptive content, but marks
the social act carried out as a request. In many languages a question is
formed from a corresponding statement by adding a particle at the front
or the back of the sentence. Thus in Japanese, interrogative sentences are
formed by adding ka at the end of a sentence. Likewise in Mandarin
Chinese, a question can be formed by adding ma to the corresponding
statement. The diﬀerence between questions and statements is purely illo-
cutionary; they require diﬀerent responses from the hearer, but they deal
with the same propositional (descriptive) content. The relative marginality
of pure illocution markers is typical of languages in general, but they are
not wholly unintegrated, as Burling (2005) claims.
176 The Origins of Meaning
Purely illocutionary expressions clearly do not provide a basis for the
grammatical complexity and descriptive power of modern human lan-
guage. But the absolute centrality of illocution in human language, the
fact that every human linguistic expression can be, and most often is, used
to do something, makes simple dyadic non-descriptive communicative acts
a good place to look at the origins of human public language. The idea will
be that grammatical complexity and descriptive power grew on top of such
basic acts, vastly transforming the communicative capacity of individuals,
and eventually also transforming individuals’ private mental capacities, as
well. But that is to look a long way ahead in our story.
In the literature on speech acts, one sometimes ﬁnds asserting, referring,
and predicating mentioned as speech acts. But it is clear that asserting,
referring, and predicating are diﬀerent in nature from the inherently social
speech acts such as promising, insulting, congratulating, and greeting.
The latter are all ‘coins’ in a currency of conventional social interaction.
Certain situations demand certain speech acts, and if they are not given,
group coherence is weakened. Greeting, apologizing, thanking, and con-
gratulating on appropriate occasions are expected and their performance
strengthens social ties. Insulting deliberately changes social relations, and
sets up expectations of further social acts. But asserting, referring, and
predicating are like none of these. If, while speaking to you, I happen to
refer to a particular apple, that act of referring is not itself a coin in the
same social currency. If I say ‘I promise to give you this apple’, the act
of promising is indeed a coin in the social currency, but the embedded
act of referring is not inherently social in the same way. Likewise, to
predicate some property of a referent object, as in saying, for example,
‘This apple is unripe’, is not itself to pass a coin in the social currency of
speech acts, even though the whole utterance may carry out the speech
act of warning. And I have argued in Part I that reference, predication,
and truth are originally and basically not features of public acts, but
relationships between private mental representations and the experienced
world.
The argument in this section relates to a long-standing issue about
the function and evolution of language. Far too often, the debate has
been presented as an all-or-nothing choice between communication and
internal mental representation. An example is: ‘We should search for the
ancestry of language not in prior systems of animal communication but in
prior representational systems’ (Bickerton 1990, p. 23). This is in keeping
with Chomsky, who in several of his writings has consistently asserted
that the function of language is more to do with mental representation
Communication by Dyadic Acts 177
than with communication (e.g. Chomsky 1980). Pinker and Bloom (1990,
p. 714) reject this view, but, sensibly, without dismissing the idea of a
‘language-like representational medium’, while pointing out that in their
surface structure ‘Natural languages are hopeless for this function’. The
issue is explored in detail in Hurford (2002). In the present work, an
emphatically more eclectic stance is taken, with Part I ‘Meaning before
Communication’ exploring prior representational systems in relation to
human semantics, and this part exploring the communicative abilities of
animals.
6.3 things animals do to each other
The previous section outlined the ways in which human use of language
involves people doing things to each other. Here we will look at animal
precursors: communicative ways in which animals do things to each other.
In the most basic form of unlearned instinctive behaviour between con-
speciﬁcs, animals simply act on each other as physical objects, for example
shoving each other out of the way to get at food. In social species, however,
virtually all signiﬁcant interactions show a ‘causal gap’ between an action
and its eﬀect on the recipient. An animal need not always physically push
another out of the way, but can obtain the same eﬀect, if the other animal
is smaller or less dominant, simply by growling. Krebs and Dawkins
(1984) introduced the ideas of manipulation and mind-reading to begin to
explain such facts. In fact ‘mind-reading’ can be taken to attribute unnec-
essarily telepathic powers to an animal, and we can start with a weaker
version: prediction. This weaker capacity does not involve any mental
ability to imagine oneself in the position of another, as in full-blown
Theory of Mind (to which we will return later). Animals can take suitable
action in response to the movements of inanimate objects, such as falling
rocks. An animal dodging a falling rock acts as if it knows where the rock
will be in a few milliseconds’ time. Such instinctive behaviour has been
hardwired into the animal’s reﬂexes by natural selection. Animals that
didn’t dodge falling rocks quickly enough had fewer oﬀspring.
The evolutionary environment of social species includes danger from
conspeciﬁcs as well as from inanimate objects. Animals attack each other,
and wounded animals are generally less ﬁt to survive and reproduce. If
an animal can predict an attack (not necessarily in any way consciously)
and take evasive action, its ﬁtness is improved. Movements preparatory
to an attack can trigger an evolved evasive response. The classic exponent
of these ideas is Tinbergen (1952, 1964).
178 The Origins of Meaning
Many signaling movements resemble incomplete versions of movements
which themselves have another function. For instance, many threat postures
involve the ﬁrst stages of ﬁghting in which the weapons are brought into a
position of readiness; birds point the bill at an opponent or lift the carpal
joints; ﬁsh may open their mouths; many mammals bare their teeth.
(Tinbergen 1964)
Animals evolve reﬂex evasive actions against the most common dangers
in their environment, including dangers from conspeciﬁcs.
Danger is an impersonal term; threat (in careful usage) adds an inten-
tional act component. Once an evasive response to an impending attack
has evolved, the evolutionary environment of would-be attackers has
changed. Now, mere preparatory actions, such as teeth-baring, can have
the same eﬀect as a full-blooded attack—the victim gets out of the way.
Preparatory movements are less costly of energy than full attacks, and in
response to the evolved evasive action, a ritualized threat gesture evolves,
by which the actor can often get the same result as from an attack but with
much less eﬀort. Given this evolutionary chain of mutual adaptations, an
instinctive routine has emerged between threat-giver and threat-receiver.
An animal halfway up the dominance hierarchy can act in either role,
depending on who she is interacting with. It looks as if the beginnings of
a simple code—teeth-baring = threat—has evolved in the species. To work
eﬀectively, such ritual moves must be clearly distinct from other similar
moves not associated with the implicit message, and so a certain degree
of stylization often takes place. The teeth-baring of a threat display to
a conspeciﬁc may be a bit more obvious to an observer than the teeth-
baring preparatory to an attack on prey of another species. In adversarial
situations, the threat-giver must also be prepared occasionally to follow
up his threat if necessary, or else receivers might evolve to ignore it.
Conspeciﬁcs may often be in ﬁerce rivalry, especially males com-
peting for sexual partners in some social setups. In some species and
some circumstances rival males actually kill each other, if that is how
self-interest works out. But it is not easy to kill a similar-sized conspeciﬁc
without risk of injury to oneself, and alternative ritualized behaviours
have often evolved. This is not a case of ‘species-selection’ where the
(relative) kid-gloves behaviour might be thought to have evolved for the
purpose of preserving the species. It is not a case of ‘I had better not kill
him, because that might endanger the species’. It is rather that behaviours
have evolved by which clear enough evidence is given of both protagonists’
respective strengths, in time for the one who perceives himself to be the
weaker to withdraw without paying the ultimate price, thus saving his
Communication by Dyadic Acts 179
genes for a more auspicious occasion; if the stronger chose to give chase
and ﬁght on, he too would be wasting energy better spent on mating.3
Conspeciﬁcs need to ﬁnd mates, and potential mates need to advertise
themselves. In the many species where males and females diﬀer in appear-
ance, much of the variation is due to clues telling the opposite sex of
that particular species that an individual is appropriate. Domb and Pagel
(2002, p. 204) found thats
sexual swellings in wild baboons reliably advertise a female’s reproductive
value over her lifetime, in accordance with a theoretical model of honest
signalling. Females with larger swellings attained sexual maturity earlier,
produced both more oﬀspring and more surviving oﬀspring per year than
females with smaller swellings, and had a higher overall proportion of their
oﬀspring survive. Male baboons use the size of the sexual swelling to deter-
mine their mating eﬀort, ﬁghting more aggressively to consort females with
larger swellings, and spending more time grooming these females.
Male sexual ornament is in fact more common than such female sexual
ornament—witness the peacock’s splendid tail.
Behavioural signalling by males to attract females is very common.
Examples are birdsong (which also has a territorial component), frog
calls, and the elaborate bower-building by bower birds. In species where
females are choosy about their partners, a permanent marking or diﬀer-
ence in shape will not do. Actions to repel or attract suitable partners and
to coordinate sexual activity have evolved. Semple et al. (2002) studied
how female baboons vocalize before, during, and after copulation and the
eﬀect of such calls on males. Hauser (1996, pp. 404–405) gives a list of
primate signals used to manage copulation in various ways:
1. Females call to synchronize orgasm with the male (Hamilton and Arrowood 1978)
or to facilitate proper endocrinological exchanges required for mating (Cheng
1992). The idea here is that orgasm aids fertilization via an increase in sperm
transfer up the reproductive tract. This hypothesis would require coordination
between between the male and the female, such that the female would signal that
she is close to orgasm and the male would call just prior to ejaculation.
2. Females call to announce their reproductive state. Variation in call structure may
covary with diﬀerent stages of the reproductive cycle (Aich et al. 1990; Gust et al.
1990).
3
An inﬂuential paper by Enquist and Leimar (1983), modelling the kinds of cost–beneﬁt
relations involved in deciding whether to ﬁght, initiated a line of research under the heading
of ‘self-assessment games’.
180 The Origins of Meaning
3. Females call to announce the presence of a male consort and to recruit aid from
other females as a mechanism to reduce harassment (O’Connell and Cowlishaw
1994)
4. Females call when mating with low-ranking males as a mechanism for promoting
male-male competition. As a result of generating a competitive arena, females can
make more informed choices about male viability or physical condition (Cox and
LeBoeuf 1977).
In Hauser’s ﬁrst example above, there is evidence of coordination between
two signallers, a kind of brief duet during sex. Duetting is quite common
in a range of distantly related species. Deputte (1982) gives a detailed
description of duetting in gibbons.
To summarize, in a mated pair, when the female sings, the male starts to sing.
During each buildup phase of the female song, the male stops singing. After
the climax of the female song, he resumes his song by uttering a response. This
response is characterized by its structural complexity, loudness, and associ-
ated locomotory displays. Therefore, in the white-cheeked gibbons, duets are
antiphonal. (Deputte 1982, p. 80)
Deputte also brieﬂy surveys duetting behaviour in other primates and
some bird species. It arises as an adaptation in monogamous territorial
species in environments where visual contact is restricted, such as dense
jungle. In duetting, one can see similarities with the turn-taking in human
conversations, but the resemblance is very limited:
I investigated whether wild chimpanzee vocal exchanges exhibit uniquely
human conversational attributes. The results indicate that wild chimpanzees
vocalize at low rates, tend not to respond to calls that they hear, and, when
they do respond, tend to give calls that are similar to the ones they have heard.
Thus, chimpanzee vocal interactions resemble those of other primate species,
and show no special similarity to human conversations.
(Arcadi 2000, p. 205)
Many animal communications are not addressed to single addressees, but
to all and sundry who may be in the vicinity. One simple message may
be paraphrased as ‘Here I am’, communicating more or less exactly the
location of the caller. What this does to the hearers varies. In territorial
species, a ‘Here I am’ call may warn others away. In species that forage
in groups, such a call helps to keep group-members in loose contact with
each other.
The cohesion-spacing vocal system of C[ebus] nigrivittatus operates to main-
tain the characteristic spacing. The huh, a highly repetitive call, appears to
Communication by Dyadic Acts 181
elicit little response from neighbors. Animals deliver these calls when in audi-
tory and often visual contact with neighbors. The circumstances of their use
indicate that huh calls discourage neighbors from approaching and encourage
them to move away. The continual production of these calls counteracts a
tendency of animals to bunch together, especially around resources. Arrawhs
and hehs are given following more extreme perturbations. Arrawhs bring
animals together and hehs space them out.
(Robinson 1982, pp. 112–114)
In gray-cheeked mangabeys ‘the whoopgobble vocalization probably
mediates both intergroup spacing and intragroup cohesion (Chalmers
1968; Waser 1975, 1976, 1977), and it typically elicits rapid approach by
speciﬁc dominant adult males’ (Brown 1982).
The mention of signals for intragroup cohesion here implicitly takes
us beyond discussion of unlearned signals. Signals that are distinctive of
social subgroups within a breeding species must be passed on through
learning, rather than in the DNA characteristic of the whole species.
Similarities in the spectrotemporal properties of vocalizations within primate
social groups have been shown in a variety of species: chimpanzees, Barbary
macaques, pigtail macaques (M. nemestrina), rhesus macaques, cotton-top
tamarins, and mouse lemurs (Microcebus murinus). These acoustic similarities
are called diﬀerent things by diﬀerent authors: dialects, vocal signatures or
vocal accommodation (Fischer, 2002). However, they all may serve the pur-
pose of signaling current group membership. (Egnor et al. 2006, p. 665)
Crockford et al. (2004, p. 221) describe how, in wild chimpanzees from
several groups, ‘neither habitat nor genetic diﬀerences accounted for the
observation that there were acoustic diﬀerences in the pant hoot structure
of males living in neighbouring communities, but not in those of males
from a distant community. This suggests that chimpanzees may actively
modify pant hoots to be diﬀerent from their neighbours.’ (See also Arcadi
1996 for interpopulation variability of the chimpanzee pant-hoot.) Thus
we have behaviour ‘designed’ not just to be similar to the members of one’s
own group, but also to be diﬀerent from the behaviour of other groups.
Egnor et al. (2006) give a number of other examples of possible ‘group-
signals’, but sound an important note of caution: ‘However, all studies
on group-speciﬁc signatures to date have been observational. It is still
an open question whether these signatures are meaningful to receivers,
though it seems likely, given that the tendency to produce such signatures
appears to be widespread among primates’ (Egnor et al. 2006, p. 665). In
other words, it may be the case that the animals are disposed to imitate the
182 The Origins of Meaning
characteristics of other animals in their groups, but do not respond in any
signiﬁcant way to perception of this group similarity. Thus such charac-
teristics may not be (intentional) signals at all, but rather just behavioural
similarities observable by a human researcher. A human analogy might
be ‘body language’, which is often unconsciously imitated. When you
cross your legs, I cross mine; when you smile, I smile too. But there are
no conventionalized leg-crossing or smiling signals identifying the speciﬁc
social group that you and I belong to (whatever that may be). In language,
priming is a well-recognized phenomenon; here the form (e.g. choice of
vocabulary, choice of syntactic construction) of one person’s utterance has
been shown to be inﬂuenced, in the direction of similarity, by the form of
the previous speaker’s utterance (see e.g. Cleland and Pickering 2003).
Likewise, if a ‘Here I am’ call can be interpreted as indicating the
location of a particular animal known to the other group-members, then
again we are dealing with features of a signal that are learned, because
an association between a speciﬁc call and a speciﬁc individual cannot
have been coded for in the species’ genes. There is no advantage in a
territorial call (that warns others to keep away) to identify the particular
individual signaller, although it would be advantageous to include clues
to one’s ﬁghting potential, as a backup to the signal, should an intruder
call the signaller’s bluﬀ. But individual identiﬁcation, involving learning,
could be adaptive for intragroup cohesion. ‘Cotton-top tamarins produce
a species-speciﬁc vocalization called a combination long call (CLC) when
separated from group members. This long distance, multi-syllabic vocal-
ization typically elicits antiphonal calls and approach behavior from con-
speciﬁcs’ (Egnor et al. 2006, p. 665). It might be tempting to paraphrase
such a call as ‘Here I am, and I’m lost’. But if the recipients of the call do
not speciﬁcally recognize the individual caller, then a better paraphrase
would be ‘Mayday, mayday, cotton-top tamarin here lost contact’. In
fact, such calls incorporate both an innate and a learned component.
Tamarins give an innately speciﬁed ‘Mayday, lost contact’ call, which
other tamarins interpret instinctively, but fellow group members learn the
particular voice qualities of individuals. A human analogy would be the
sound of spontaneous laughter, with no communicative intent. Because
of inherited human physiology, laughter always has certain features, to
which hearers often instinctively react by laughing themselves. But we can
also learn to recognize which person is laughing, when we hear laughter.
The analogy is quite close.
In some cases, the evolutionary origins of ritualized moves, such as
teeth-baring preparatory to attack, can still be seen, but in other cases the
Communication by Dyadic Acts 183
origins of signals are not so transparent. For our purposes, the important
things to note about all these types of signal are (1) they are all still dyadic
(non-referential), just inﬂuencing the behaviour of others without being
about, or referring to, any third object or event; (2) they are probably
(though we don’t know for sure) mostly the result of innate disposi-
tions rather than learned behaviours; (3) they are social acts, whereby
animals do things to each other; (4) the relationship between the signal
and its function is largely arbitrary, although there may be some iconic
components such as extra loudness to convey extra urgency; and (5) in
some species, turn-taking weakly resembling conversational exchanges, as
in duetting, has evolved.
In the last of these three properties, namely the illocutionary doing-
things-to-each-other property, the arbitrariness of the signal–function
relationship, and the beginning of ‘conversational’ turn-taking, we see
some similarity with human language. The other features of human
language, Intentionality or aboutness, and learned signal–meaning pair-
ings, are absent. At the stage of the animal signals summarized here,
the animals are performing pragmatic acts on each other, sometimes
coordinated in pairs, getting each other to do things by mostly arbi-
trary signals, which they are largely innately disposed to produce and to
respond to.
I take a diﬀerent view from Burling (2005) on the relevance of pri-
mate communication to the origins of human language. I share with
his stimulating book the emphasis on the enormous gap between any
kind of animal communication and human language, and the view that
elements of primate-like communication still exist in parallel with, but
barely integrated into, human language. He writes:
Language, however, is organized in such utterly diﬀerent ways from primate
or mammalian calls and it conveys such utterly diﬀerent kinds of meanings,
that I ﬁnd it impossible to imagine a realistic sequence by which natural or
sexual selection could have converted a call system into a language. Human
beings, moreover, still have a ﬁne set of primate calls that remains quite
separate from language. Primate calls have much less in common with human
language than with human screams, sighs, sobs, and laughter. Our own audi-
ble cries, howls, giggles and snorts, along with our visible scowls, smiles, and
stares, all belong securely to our primate heritage. They form the primate
communication of the human primate. ...We will understand more about the
origins of language by considering the ways in which language diﬀers from
the cries and gestures of human and non-human primates than by looking
for ways in which they are alike. (Burling 2005, p. 16)
184 The Origins of Meaning
I agree with a lot of this, but not with the conclusion. Burling’s book
neglects the vital illocutionary doing-things-to-each-other property that is
common to primate calls and all human utterances, and the concomitant
dyadic nature of primate signalling interactions. In fact, the whole ﬁeld
of pragmatics, at least as linguists understand it, is neglected in Burling’s
book; there are no mentions of pragmatics or of speech acts, or of authors
such as Austin, Searle, and Grice who pioneered the central importance of
interpersonal meaning in human language. The book also tends strongly,
with a few incidental reservations, to relegate primate calls to purely
analogue signals. Burling writes, ‘Language is digital, gesture-calls are
analog’ (p. 27), but qualiﬁes this at the beginning of the next paragraph by
‘Immediately, complications need to be acknowledged’. In short, I share
Burling’s emphasis on the huge diﬀerence in complexity between primate
calls and human language, and agree that human language has some
totally new kinds of component, in particular aboutness and learning of
signal–meaning pairs (and of course complex syntax). But I see enough
common ground between primate calls and human utterances not to
give up the idea that the evolution of human language built upon the
pre-existing use of arbitrary signals by animals to do things to each other.
As an analogy, modern complex technology far outstrips Stone Age tools;
they are about as diﬀerent as modern human language is from primate
calls, and there is hardly a place for stone tools of any kind in modern
life. Yet modern technology could not have evolved if there had been no
Stone Age. Paleolithic tools were an essential stepping stone on the way
to computers, spaceships, and nanotechnology.
Human language is a unique naturally occurring case of learned
and arbitrary symbolic communication, about objects and events in a
shared external world.4
Alongside modern human language, and accom-
panying it in utterances, we ﬁnd elements of the kind of non-referring
communication that we have just surveyed in animals. Some aspects of
speech, such as speed, loudness, and pitch range, are iconically connected
with the aﬀective mood of the speaker, and these correlations are found
across all languages with little variation. You can tell when a speaker is
excited, even if you can’t understand a word he is saying. These aspects of
human language behaviour are largely unlearned, and come instinctively.
They have been called ‘paralanguage’, implying that they do not belong
to a language system proper. But this ancient paralinguistic behaviour is
interwoven with the more complex language unique to humans. When
4
Human language is further unique in having complex syntax; we will put the evolution
of complex syntax aside until Volume 2.
Communication by Dyadic Acts 185
humans converse, they are undeniably doing things to each other, as well
as often commenting on the outside world. Some of the purely dyadic
social moves made in language are signalled by learned words, such as
please, Hello, and Cheers. The connections between these words and their
functions are arbitrary. In the learning, but not in the arbitrariness, of
such forms we have evolved away from the ritualized signals of animals.
Deﬁning ‘language proper’ as what is unique to humans, it is correct
to exclude paralanguage, as we share this kind of communication with
many animals, but it is probable that uniquely complex human language
could not have evolved without the social ritualized doing-things-to-each-
other scaﬀolding found in many other social species, including our nearest
relatives, the primates.
6.4 getting the right environmental conditions
Animals who live solitary lives don’t need, and don’t have the opportunity,
to communicate very much. Living constantly in a group is obviously
a prerequisite for developed communication. The ancestors of humans
presumably lived in the right kind of groups for a rich communication
system to emerge. What features of social organization favour the emer-
gence of lively and frequent communication? From what is known about
communication in other species, group size and (lack of) hierarchical
structure make a contribution. Furthermore, the environmental condi-
tions in which a species lives make a diﬀerence to their communicative
habits. We’ll take a brief look at each of these factors. Note that we are
still just considering a dyadic, non-referring, purely illocutionary (doing-
things-to-each-other) kind of communication at this stage.
6.4.1 The Physical Environment and the Communication Medium
Sound carries in the dark and through thick forest. Visual signals are no
good in the dark and less eﬀective than acoustic signals in dense jungle.
Even in open savannah, visual signals require the receiver to be looking
at the signaller, a requirement not imposed on vocal signals. It is not
my purpose here to delve into the debate over whether the forerunners
of human language were vocal or gestural.5
The literature on animal
communication is stronger on vocal signalling than on gestural signalling,
although Hewes (1973) does mention some primate gestural signalling,
and see a 2005 special issue on gesture in primates (Gómez 2005b; Leavens
5
For some of literature on the gestural origins of human language, see Hewes (1973);
Armstrong et al. (1995); Corballis (2002); Arbib (2005); MacNeilage and Davis (2005).
186 The Origins of Meaning
and Hopkins 2005; Maestripieri 2005; Pika et al. 2005). It would bolster
the argument for gestural origins of human language if further widespread
examples of gestural communication in animals could be found. But
the literature is relatively thin on this topic, compared to that on vocal
communication, due at least in part, one suspects, to the paucity of good
examples from the ﬁeld. Egnor et al. (2006, p. 660) attribute this relative
neglect of non-vocal communication in primates to the fact that ‘the ana-
lytical techniques for analyzing the [vocal] signal and testing its perceptual
signiﬁcance in primates are far more sophisticated than for the visual,
tactile or olfactory channels’. Gesture, as opposed to vocal signals, has
(at least) one great advantage: that it can be used very transparently for
pointing at things. Pointing is the beginning of communicative referring,
and I will return to this major step towards human language in the next
chapter. For the present, our concern is the principled idea that ecological
and social conditions correlate with the modality, amount, and quality of
doing-things-to-each-other (i.e. illocutionary) communicative signals.
Facial expressions play a role in the social life of primates, and only
work eﬀectively at close range, in good light, and with the communicators
facing each other. This immediately highlights a principled relationship
between the medium and the typical message of a signal. Facial expres-
sions cannot be broadcast so widely as vocal signals, and are therefore
particularly appropriate to close-range communication between pairs of
animals. Primate, and especially ape, faces are more complexly muscled
and mobile than those of other animals, allowing considerable versatility
in signalling (Huber 1931; Gómez 2004). Signalling by facial expression is
common among primates; for a good survey discussion, see Hauser (1996,
pp. 245–251).
6.4.2 Social Conditions
Our main interest here is to establish the principle that ecological and
social conditions aﬀect the amount and quality of social communication.
Many animals give territorial calls. These, by deﬁnition, are ‘antisocial’,
deterring further contact. Territorial calls are not a good place to look for
highly developed or complex communication. We are also interested here
only in the function or meaning end of communication, so details of the
selection of vocal calls with diﬀerent acoustic properties according to a
species’ typical habitat are of less interest to us here.6
6
See Alcock (1984, pp. 453–463) for a brief survey of ecological conditions aﬀecting
characteristics of animal signals.
Communication by Dyadic Acts 187
Ecological conditions, including availability of food and frequency
of predation, strongly aﬀect the sizes of social groups. Vast herds of
herbivores graze open plains, while the carnivores that prey on them
go in small packs or even alone. Sawaguchi (1992) found a correlation
between the diet and social structure of anthropoid primates and their
relative neocortex size (RSN), a factor playing a part in complexity of
communication. ‘[F]rugivorous anthropoids had higher values of RSNs
than folivorous anthropoids, and polygynous anthropoids had signiﬁ-
cantly higher values of RSNs than monogynous anthropoids. Further-
more, RSNs were positively correlated with the size of the troop’ (p. 130).
Dunbar (1996a) presents a general model of determinants of group size
in primates. Neocortex size co-varies with social network size. This truth
is complicated by the fact that ‘in respect of neocortex size, there are as
many as four statistically distinct grades within the primates (including
humans).’ (Kudo and Dunbar 2001, p. 711); this means that the general
formula for calculating the relation between neocortex size and group
size contains four diﬀerent constants for the four diﬀerent suborders of
primates considered. In its turn, the size of groups is a factor playing a
role in the evolution of communication. Dunbar (1996b) is well known
for making a plausible case that group size contributes to the kind of
communication that could eventually lead to language. One central inter-
personal activity among primates is physical grooming. Grooming each
other acts as a calming inﬂuence, defuses strife, and strengthens bonds
between individuals. Primates, who typically live in smallish groups of
less than 100, spend a lot of time grooming. Dunbar argues that in a
group larger than this there simply would not be enough spare time for
an individual to manage to physically groom all the individuals in the
group with whom it is necessary to keep up a social relationship. The sug-
gestion is that vocal communication took the place of physical grooming.
Whispering ‘sweet nothings’ can be done to several individuals at a time.
Dunbar found a correlation, across a range of species, between the size
of a social group and the size of an individual’s neocortex. Byrne and
Corp (2004) also found a correlation between neocortex size and rate of
tactical deception among primates. Taken together with Dunbar’s results,
this suggests that increased brain size served the function of keeping a
record of an increased number of social relationships and their increased
complexity.
Dunbar’s theory does not actually correlate group size with complexity
of a communication system, but a positive correlation exists. An early
suggestion was as follows:
188 The Origins of Meaning
The structural complexity of primate vocal systems is likely to parallel inter-
speciﬁc diﬀerences in the size, organization, and distribution of the social unit.
For example, species with small social units, consisting of three to six individ-
uals, as is characteristic of de Brazza’s monkey (Cercopithecus neglectus), may
require a less sophisticated vocal system for the mediation of vocal exchanges
than species with large social units of a hundred or more individuals, as
exhibited by talapoin monkeys (Miopithecus talapoin).
(Snowdon et al. 1982, p. 63)
This conjecture has now been emphatically conﬁrmed by McComb and
Semple (2005), who surveyed data on forty-two primate species, to see
what correlation could be found between group size and size of vocal
repertoire. For twenty species for which data was available on amount of
time spent grooming, they also looked for correlations between grooming
time and group size and vocal repertoire. They conclude:
[C]lear and strong relationships between social group size, grooming time
and vocal repertoire size have emerged in our analyses. Independent contrast
analyses revealed that evolutionary changes in repertoire are a strong pre-
dictor of both changes in group size and changes in grooming time among
non-human primates. Simple cross-species comparisons also indicate strong
present-day relationships between repertoire size and the two measures of
sociality. It is important to note that the direction of causality cannot be
inferred from correlational analyses, therefore it is not possible to say whether
evolutionary increases in vocal repertoire sizes directly preceded or followed
increases in levels of sociality. However, our ﬁndings are consistent with the
hypothesis that the vocal communication system may facilitate (or constrain)
increases in group size and levels of social bonding within primate social
groups. (McComb and Semple 2005, p. 3)7
These data suggest that, rather than vocal communication taking over
from grooming, as Dunbar suggests, increased grooming and vocal com-
munication co-evolved along with group size.
It is also noteworthy that of the forty-two species surveyed, the species
with both the largest typical group size (125) and the largest vocal reper-
toire (38 calls) was the bonobos (Pan paniscus), the species to which Kanzi,
the most successfully language-trained primate, belongs.8
One must be
cautious, however, of accepting such counts as ﬁnal and deﬁnitive of
7
Alan Grafen (personal communication) has expressed some technical statistical reser-
vations about these conclusions, to do with an incompatibility between independent con-
trast analyses and simple cross-species comparisons.
8
Data from Bermejo and Omedes (1999); data on bonobo grooming time was not
available.
Communication by Dyadic Acts 189
all bonobo signalling. Pika et al. (2005), in a study of seven subadult
bonobos, captive-born and naturally raised in a zoo, found some gestures
that had not been observed before, and did not ﬁnd some gestures which
had been observed before; and they also noted some idiosyncratic gestures
used by just one animal.
A diﬀerent kind of clue to the social conditions most favourable to
the emergence of a language comes from a study of the rise of new
modern sign languages, such as Nicaraguan Sign Language and Al-Sayyid
Bedouin Sign Language (Senghas 2005). Senghas lists high group size and
frequent close contact, older individuals to younger, among the ‘minimal
environmental social factors required to generate a language’. Although
these modern sign languages arose embedded in a modern human context,
these particular required factors would probably also have had a facilitat-
ing eﬀect in the rise of the ﬁrst proto-human signalling systems.
The pre-linguistic ancestors of humans probably had highly developed
repertoires of vocal calls and lived in relatively large groups. Primate
vocal calls (apart from the complex songs of gibbons) are all atomic, like
mini-vocabularies, with each individual call paired to its social function,
and with (apparently) no possibility of analysing a call into reusable
constituents, as the syllables of human languages can be analysed into
consonants and vowels. As the size of the vocal repertoire grows, the load
on memory increases, and it becomes more advantageous to compose calls
productively out of a smaller inventory of subunits. This (apart from the
duetting of gibbons) has not happened in non-human primates.9
But it
is possible that the bonobo repertoire of thirty-eight calls is getting near
the limit beyond which it becomes advantageous to have some kind of
combinatory system to generate a larger number of calls.
Larger group size is conducive to a larger communicative repertoire, but
size is not all. The nature and complexity of the social organization within
a group is also important. There are nineteen species of macaque (genus
Macaca). Maestripieri (1999) studied three species: Rhesus (M. mulatta),
pigtail (M. nemestrina), and stumptail (M. arctoides). He investigated
a possible correlation between the typical social arrangements of each
species and their communicative repertoires, as shown in the observation
period, and the frequency with which they communicated. He counted
only gestural (non-vocal) communicative acts, although he states that ‘it
9
‘Duetting’ is sometimes mentioned in chimpanzees, but I have not been able to ﬁnd
any detailed study of its structure. The chimpanzee ‘pant-hoot’ is sometimes said to be
composed of several components (Arcadi 1996) and sometimes treated as a single unit.
190 The Origins of Meaning
seems likely that diﬀerences in vocal communication among macaque
species are parallel rather than complementary to those found for their
gestural communication’ (p. 73). There are interesting diﬀerences in the
social structures of these species, which Maestripieri located on
a continuum, with ‘despotic-nepotistic’ societies at one extreme and
‘egalitarian-individualistic’ societies at the other (Thierry, 1990). In despotic-
nepotistic primate societies, the distribution of aﬃliative interactions (e.g.
grooming) and agonistic interactions (aggression and coalition support) is
strongly inﬂuenced by a linear dominance hierarchy and by kinship. In
contrast, in egalitarian-individualistic societies, a strict dominance hierarchy
is usually absent, strong bonds between kin are limited to those between
mothers and their immature oﬀspring, and physical and social skills play an
important role in deﬁning the individual’s position in the social group.
(Maestripieri 1999, p. 57).
Rhesus macaques are near the despotic-nepotistic end of this continuum,
pigtail macaques are in the middle, and stumptail macaques are near the
egalitarian-individualistic end.10
In rhesus macaques, only 4 gestures (Bared-Teeth, Present, Mount, and Lip-
Smack) were displayed with a frequency equal to or greater than one event per
individual, compared with 8 gestures in pigtail macaques and 12 in stump-
tail macaques. The frequency of gestures per individual was signiﬁcantly
diﬀerent in the three species ...and was higher for pigtails and stumptails
than for rhesus (p < .05) Thus, pigtail macaques and especially stumptail
macaques have a wider repertoire of gestures of dominance–submission and
aﬃliation than do rhesus macaques, and they use these gestures with higher
frequency.
(Maestripieri 1999, pp. 63–64)
The article is fascinating enough to quote some of its discussion even
further.
The diﬀerences found in the size of the gestural repertoire and in the commu-
nication dynamics of rhesus, pigtail, and stumptail macaques are generally
consistent with the characteristics of their social organization. The despotic
and nepotistic features of rhesus society leave little room for complex patterns
of aﬃliative communication and bonding. Intense aﬃliation and bonding
10
Though these diﬀerences between macaque species are well known in the wild, they
are not immutable. De Waal and Johanowicz (1993) put groups of rhesus and stumptail
macaques together in the same living space for ﬁve months. At the end of the period,
the rhesus, who had hitherto engaged in rather little reconciliation behaviour, did so as
frequently as the stumptails.
Communication by Dyadic Acts 191
patterns in pigtail macaques appear to have coevolved with complex dynamics
of intragroup cooperation and with considerable social tolerance. ...
Dominance hierarchies and nepotistic behavior have probably been a con-
stant presence in human evolution and are still conspicuous in most contem-
porary human societies. In the initial stages of hominid evolution, however, an
increase in group size resulting from direct intergroup competition might have
intensiﬁed intragroup competition and in turn increased the need to recruit
allies from beyond the boundaries of an individual’s kin group or dominance
class (Alexander, 1974). ...
Interestingly, it has recently been suggested that the long hunter-gatherer
phase in human evolution might have been characterized by a relatively
individualistic and egalitarian lifestyle (Knauft, 1991; Boehm, 1993; Erdal
and Whiten, 1994). The psychological dispositions underlying this lifestyle,
including the tendencies both to dominate and to resist domination, to share
and to be opportunistically selﬁsh, and to pursue ﬂexible and short-term
strategies of cooperation with diﬀerent individuals according to the circum-
stances, could have been important factors in molding the early human mind.
(Maestripieri 1999, pp. 72, 74)
Coussi-Korbel and Fragaszy (1995) have also argued for a correlation
between egalitarian social arrangements in animals and relatively ﬂu-
ent communication within a group leading to cooperation and group
cohesion.
The correlation between increased communication and egalitarian-
individualistic social arrangements is at ﬁrst heartening to liberal-minded
intellectuals, but if it is assumed that the main function of communication
in primate groups is negotiation of social relationships, the correlation
is almost tautologous. In a society where everyone has a ﬁxed place and
knows it, no negotiation is necessary. In a looser society in which people’s
places can change, negotiation of social place by communication is to be
expected. Nevertheless, Maestripieri’s results do reinforce a widely held
belief that negotiation of social life in primates is the central function of
communication among primates, rather than the giving and receiving of
practical information about the world, for purposes, say, of cooperation.
(Liberal-minded intellectuals may be less happy to know that a large part
of the brain power devoted to negotiation of social relationships among
primates is used for purposes of deception—see p. 187.)
Sometimes a dichotomy is implied between explanations appealing to
genetic factors aﬀecting the phenotypes of individuals and social facts
about the organization of groups. Cultural traditions and learning can
indeed add information to the complex of dispositions determining an
192 The Origins of Meaning
individual’s behaviour. But it all happens within a biological envelope.
And genetic heredity plays a role in animals’ dispositions to various kinds
of behaviour. This has recently been strikingly shown in experiments
with transgenic voles. Alteration of a single gene transforms a vole of a
naturally promiscuous species into a monogamously inclined vole.
Prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) exhibit a monogamous social structure in
nature, whereas closely related meadow voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus) are
solitary and polygamous. ...We show that a change in the expression of a
single gene in the larger context of pre-existing genetic and neural circuits can
profoundly alter social behaviour, providing a potential molecular mechanism
for the rapid evolution of complex social behaviour.
(Lim et al. 2004, p. 754)
The overall frameworks of our primate ancestors’ social arrangements
were largely determined by their genetic dispositions, in the environments
in which they had evolved. This is not to deny that non-genetic factors,
especially when learning and plasticity are increasingly involved, also
determine the social arrangements of diﬀerent species. In fact we will
see in the next chapter that apes of the same species have very diﬀerent
dispositions to point to things, depending on whether they are in captivity
or living in the wild, a diﬀerence entirely due to their ecological conditions,
rather than to their genes.
Monogamy and polygamy are features of social organization that could
conceivably be relevant to the evolution of enhanced communication. The
social and mating arrangements of great ape species vary markedly.11
Orangutans live mostly solitary lives; the longest contact is between
mothers and immature oﬀspring. This is hardly fruitful terrain for a rich
communication system to develop. Gorillas live in male-dominated harem
groups. There is a well-known correlation between harem-polygamous
species and sexual dimorphism. In species with male-dominated harems,
such as sea-lions and gorillas, the male is typically much larger than
the female. In polygamous (polygynous) species, the activities of mate
attraction and mate defence are often similar, if not identical. The male
is at least as much concerned with scaring oﬀ the male competition as
impressing an onlooking female. Beside the well-known ground-slapping
behaviour, gorillas near water (Parnell and Buchanan-Smith 2001) splash
violently as a display. Gorilla courtship is not elaborate, and typically
consists of the female making it manifest that she is in oestrous. Harem
11
See Vehrencamp and Bradbury (1984) for a detailed discussion of the theory of
relationships between mating systems and ecology.
Communication by Dyadic Acts 193
polygny does not seem conducive to enhanced communication, at least for
purposes of courtship.
Just as modern great apes diﬀer widely in their social arrangements,
especially with regard to monogamy or polygamy, it seems likely that there
has been an evolutionary shift from harem-polygyny in australopithecines
towards the more symmetric sex roles seen among modern humans.
‘Bones of australopithecines, Australopithecus afarensis, were unearthed
near Hadar, Ethiopia. The males of some of these ancestors were nearly
twice as large as the females’ (Margulis and Sagan 1991, p. 14).
Male afarensis are much larger than females. One thing we know with conﬁ-
dence from other primates is that diﬀerences in body size between the sexes
indicates a polygynous mating system (Clutton-Brock and Harvey, 1976).
Males evolve larger because big bodies help them in male–male competition.
Male and female members of monogamous primate systems, in which there is
little male–male competition, tend to be about the same size. Thus Lucy was
probably not living in a monogamous social system. She may have been in a
harem situation, but it’s equally possible that she had access to several males
and that they had access to her. (Small 1993, p. 190)
Several remains at Laetoli and Hadar exhibit notable size diﬀerences—for
example, the footprints at Laetoli and the upper jaws of AL200 and AL199 at
Hadar. The diﬀerences in size can be interpreted as due to sexual dimorphism
(Johanson and White 1979). These size diﬀerences appear greater than those
between sexes for humans today. However, the canine teeth do not appear to
exhibit as pronounced dimorphism as among most living primates (Johanson
and White 1979). Quite possibly, then, A. afarensis had already undergone
some reduction of sexual dimorphism, and its descendants were to undergo
even more. (Tanner 1981, p. 190)
It is possible, given the uncertainty surounding all such ancient fossils,
that the large and small specimens were not male and female members
of the same species, but belonged to diﬀerent species. McHenry (1996)
has made a detailed study of all extant data relevant to this problem and
concluded that Australopithecus arafensis were indeed sexually dimorphic,
to a far greater degree than modern humans, but less so than gorillas; he
also concludes that they were polygynous. Later in hominid evolution,
Homo erectus males were not much larger than Homo erectus females. Homo
erectus was a communal species who not only gathered edible plants but
hunted mammoths and used ﬁre. Eating and sleeping together in groups—
the sort of cooperative groups needed to hunt—may have made them far
194 The Origins of Meaning
more social, more talkative, and better barterers than their sexually dimorphic
australopithecine ancestors. (Margulis and Sagan 1991, p. 51)
In their sexual arrangements, humans most closely resemble bono-
bos, mating frequently and all the year round. But humans are more
monogamous, less promiscuous, than bonobos. The most commonly
favoured explanation for the loss of a marked period of oestrus (high
female sexual appetite) in humans involves a division of labour and
increased cooperation between the sexes, co-evolving with a pressure
to keep strong monogamous pair-bonds, leading to enhanced paternal
investment in caring for oﬀspring (Alcock 1984, pp. 526–527; Jolly 1985,
pp. 288–298).
Both bonobos and chimpanzees live in ﬁssion–fusion societies. Migra-
tion between primate groups is rare but bonobos and chimpanzees
migrate from one group to another more frequently than other primates.
Whereas other primate species tend strongly to gather in groups that
do not mix with others, bonobo groups occasionally get together with
animals from both groups mixing freely in a party atmosphere, and
females sometimes go oﬀ at the end of the ‘party’ with a new group.
This would be a mechanism for communicative behaviours to spread,
either by the spread of genetically based dispositions, or by copying
and learning. Bonobo and chimpanzee group membership is more labile
than that of other primate species. Bonobos and chimpanzees, more than
other apes, frequently face the need to negotiate new social relationships,
including sexual relationships. Bonobos, in particular, are well known for
their frequent heterosexual and homosexual copulations, which act as a
peace-keeping and reconciliation mechanism. Chimpanzee and bonobo
society is less strictly hierarchical than, for instance, macaque society;
subordinate chimpanzees sometimes take revenge on a dominant, but
this is extremely rare in macaques (de Waal 1996, p. 157). The ﬂuidity
of bonobo society means that there is a relatively high amount of inter-
personal communication, including a lot of communication around sex
acts. It was noted earlier that bonobos have the largest number of vocal
calls of all primates.
Ujhelyi (1996) proposes that it was territorial monogamy, as in gibbons,
that provided the original impetus for varied vocalizations in primates.
There is certainly a correlation between duetting behaviour and territorial
monogamy in birds: ‘Vocal duetting is a well-known and well-documented
phenomenon, especially in tropical birds where males and females estab-
lish long-lasting bonds, live in forest habitats and show territorial
Communication by Dyadic Acts 195
behavior’ (Deputte 1982, p. 68). (Deputte gives eleven references to back
up this assertion.) Ujhelyi’s suggestion is that this ability to control com-
plex vocalizations persisted after the change in bonobos and chimpanzees
to a ﬁssion–fusion society. The connection to monogamy was investigated
by Geissmann (1999, p. 1005), who analysed
the changes in duet structure in two pairs of siamangs during a forced partner
exchange. The duet songs of the siamangs underwent many notable changes
during partner exchange. ...After the partner exchange, new pair-speciﬁc
traits occurred, some of them obviously achieved through a partner-directed
eﬀort of one or both individual(s). Moreover, the pair-bonding hypothesis
appears to be one of the few biological functions suggested so far which could
explain a high degree of duet-complexity as adaptive.
We are looking for possible precursors of group-wide reciprocal commu-
nicative behaviour, used by all individuals in roles of both sender and
receiver. To repeat an analogy, such signals are more likely to represent
the ‘Stone Age’ precursor12
out of which later much more sophisticated
systems of communication could have developed, by integration with non-
communicative mental representational capacities, such as were discussed
in Part I of this book. Social relations giving opportunity for reciprocal
communication, with either party able to be sender or receiver of the same
signal, are not common in ape society (though probably more common in
some apes than in any other communicative species). Signals associated
with mating involve individuals in diﬀerent roles; the male–female rela-
tionship is not symmetric. A signal given by a male during courtship or
mating may be responded to by the female, but her signal is typically not a
close repeat or imitation of the male signal. Likewise, in parent–oﬀspring
interaction, the relationship is asymmetric. Male–female sexual relations
and parent–infant relations are likely to be more stereotyped than the set
of possible other relations between all individuals in a group. Bonobos,
with their versatile hetero/homosexual behaviour, are the exception to this
generalization. Play behaviour among young apes in the same group is
the most symmetric, and is likely to involve genuinely shared signals. In
signals used to negotiate social position (other than stereotyped sexual
partnership) there is more likelihood of ﬁnding the (tiny) seeds of the kind
of ﬂexible creative ad hoc communication that we see in humans. This
introduces the topic of the learning of communicative signals, which will
be discussed just below, and again more extensively in the next section.
12
Remember, this is just a metaphor; obviously non-human primates have not even
reached the level of the human Stone Age.
196 The Origins of Meaning
6.4.3 Birth and Ontogeny
A notable bio-social feature of humans is the long period of dependency
of the young on their parents, typically their mothers. Humans, more
than any other primates, are born immature, and rely for much longer on
support and protection from adult kin. Humans have reached 25% of their
ﬁnal adult brain size at birth, compared with rhesus monkeys, which have
reached 50–60% of their ﬁnal adult brain size at birth. Immature traits at
birth are known as ‘altricial’, as opposed to ‘precocial’. In nature there is
a loose correlation (complex and with exceptions) between altriciality and
a prolonged period of post-natal dependence. It is usually assumed that
this altriciality of humans is related to bipedalism, with the narrowing
of the pelvis, and the consequent adaptation to be born with a smaller
head. Brain development was postponed in human evolution to a post-
natal stage, opening the door to a far greater inﬂuence from the environ-
ment, i.e. to learning. Prolonged post-natal dependence in humans most
probably led to intensiﬁed communication between mother and infant,
but the more signiﬁcant contribution to the evolution of language is the
extended opportunity for learning communicative skills aﬀorded to young
pre-humans.
Locke and Bogin (2005) have proposed that humans evolved a dis-
tinctive four-stage ontogeny, consisting of infancy, childhood, juvenil-
ity, and adolescence, where childhood and adolescence are evolutionary
innovations not seen in the life histories of apes. They speculate on the
possible consequences of this evolved ontogeny, favouring the evolution
of language. The new, and human-speciﬁc, stage of childhood is deﬁned
as a period after weaning (freeing the mother to have more oﬀspring), but
before the child is able to forage for itself. This entails a greater degree
of child support from related adults, accompanied, it is suggested, by
enhanced engagement by the child in the social life of the group. The
adolescence stage is also new and human-speciﬁc, marked by a growth
spurt after a period in juvenility when growth was slowing down. Adoles-
cence aﬀords humans a period in which to practise communication skills
relating to courtship. These ideas are new and stimulating, but remain (as
of 2007) fairly speculative.
Related to the evolutionary narrowing of the birth canal in human
ancestors, it has been plausibly suggested by Trevathan (1987) that the
added diﬃculties of human childbirth would have made the help of others
in the role of midwives adaptive, especially in cases of breech presentation.
All in all, to the extent that social consequences can be plausibly predicted
Communication by Dyadic Acts 197
from the narrowing of the birth canal, these would have been in the
direction of increased social cooperation.
To summarize this section, the conditions that seem most likely to
have given rise to the group-wide reciprocal social purposes for which
humans use language include: large group size, relatively egalitarian-
individualistic social structure, and a long period of infant (or child)
dependency. There is some tension in this regard between ﬁssion–fusion
structure, which is likely to spread learned behaviour between groups,
and long-term monogamy, which involves long-term cooperation between
non-kin and doubled parental investment in dependent oﬀspring. The
evolutionary trajectory of modern humans has probably led us from
gorilla-like harem social arrangements of australopithecines to social
arrangements which ﬂuctuate between chimpanzee-like ﬁssion–fusion and
gibbon-like13
monogamy. Among primates, captive bonobos have shown
the greatest disposition towards human-like communicative behaviour,
and gibbons exhibit the most complex vocal displays, associated with
duetting by male–female pairs. Both species, of course, are still far from
humans in their communicative capacities.
6.5 from innate to learned
In the preceding sections, the shadow of learned behaviour has been
looming. It is an oversimpliﬁcation to classify any behaviour as 100%
innate or 100% learned. All behaviour is the outcome of the interaction of
the genes and the environment. A clear example comes from the learned
songs of songbirds:
The developing avian brain is not an acoustic sponge that accepts all song
material for use in subsequent production. Rather, there appears to be a
blueprint (Thorpe 1959) that guides young birds to select the conspeciﬁc
song from among diﬀerent songs in the environment. The innate template,
in contrast, appears to provide a reference for the feedback control of song
development in the absence of an external model (Konishi, 1965b; Konishi,
1965a; Konishi, 1985). (Hauser 1996 p. 278)
The communicative acts we have surveyed, by which animals do things
to each other socially, are largely instinctive, that is automatic responses
13
Kathleen Gibson has pointed out to me that gibbon monogamy is actually quite dif-
ferent from human monogamy in that adult gibbons forcibly evict their own oﬀspring when
they reach sexual maturity, and gibbons have nothing like the extended family structure
found in modern humans.
198 The Origins of Meaning
to circumstances, not obviously the outcome of any formative experience.
But recognition of individuals was also mentioned, as was recognition
of group membership, which cannot have been completely coded in the
genes. Nevertheless, even with individual and group-speciﬁc signals, many
of their properties are also characteristic of the species as a whole, and
beyond variation by individuals or groups. Learning takes place within a
biological envelope.
Communicative signals speciﬁc to one social group, as opposed to a
whole species, and widely used within that group, are indicative of learn-
ing. Tomasello (1990 p. 299) surveyed signals from two wild and three
captive groups of chimpanzees, identifying as many as nine signals in two
of the groups that were not observed in any of the other groups. (These
two groups did not overlap in their unique signals, either.) An example is
the ‘head tip’ gesture used in the Gombe, and only in that group (of the
ﬁve surveyed), to convey aggression. The functions of these signals were
all of the doing-things-to-each-other sort that we are concerned with in
this chapter: aggression, sex, submission, feeding another, grooming, care-
giving, and play. Clearly, quite a lot of learning of such signals happens
in these groups. ‘Learning’, however, is a broad label, and only certain
kinds of learning are conducive to the spread of arbitrary, reciprocally
used signals that are characteristic of human language. Let’s have a closer
look at non-human primate learning of communicative acts.
Within learning, a two-way distinction is common, between individual
(or associative) learning and social (or observational) learning. As we are
concerned with the possible learning of elements of communication, the
learning we are interested in is necessarily social, because communication
is social. It will be useful to distinguish also among ontogenetic ritualiza-
tion and imitation and emulation. The classiﬁcation shapes up like this:
Individual/associative learning: learning what action brings what eﬀect,
as when a pigeon learns from its own experience that pressing the left-
hand bar brings a food reward. A social example would be learning by
experience that a particular facial grimace (not copied from someone else)
tends to elicit laughter.
Ontogenetic ritualization (often equated with conventionalization): here
the learned action, and the reaction of another animal to it, both become
stereotyped. A classic example is the ‘nursing poke’ where a baby chim-
panzee starts by pushing his mother’s arm aside to get at the nipple; after
a while, the mother learns to raise her arm when he goes to move it, and
the baby learns that he only has to touch her side to get the required
Communication by Dyadic Acts 199
eﬀect. This kind of learning shares with (second-person) imitation the
social feature of interaction with another person. Both parties learn, but
the roles are asymmetric, as in the baby/mother example given. A well-
known human example is the two-arm-raising action of a human toddler
asking to be picked up, arising from raising the arms earlier in life to help a
parent lift it (Lock 1978). I cannot resist mentioning a nineteenth century
experimental replication of this eﬀect, called schematization of action by J.
C. Gómez:
Thorndike (1898) found that cats that were released from a puzzle-box upon
performance of an arbitrarily chosen action (e.g., licking their paw), instead
of by the accidental activation of the releasing device, tended to develop an
abridged, sketched-out version of the relevant behaviour—something like a
‘gesture’ of paw-licking.’ (Gómez 2005b, p. 93)
Emulation (to be distinguished from imitation): an animal observes the
actions of another, and the typical eﬀects, then carries out some action
which achieves the same goal as the observed action, but is not necessarily
a close imitation of the observed action. Example: seeing your mother cut
paper into strips with scissors, which you emulate by tearing the paper
into strips.
Imitation learning: imitating more or less precisely the action of another
animal. Example: you stick out your tongue and a human baby sticks out
her tongue too. (Meltzoﬀ 1988).
Second-person imitation: imitating an act performed at you, as the
addressee.
Third-person imitation: imitating an act performed by someone else to
someone else.
Both types of imitation are less ‘intelligent’ than emulation, involving
no calculation of cause and eﬀect.14
The term ‘emulation’ is due to Wood (1988) and I believe the term
‘ontogenetic ritualization’ is due to Michael Tomasello. Whiten et al.
(2004) survey the literature on ‘aping’ by apes. They argue that there are
intermediate cases between imitation and emulation, and indeed diﬀer-
ent types of emulation. Among apes, there is more emulation than pure
imitation, and both kinds of copying occur much more readily when
the demonstrator is a human trainer than spontaneously among apes
14
If you can’t immediately see a cause–eﬀect relationship, then often doing the dumb
thing (imitating others) is the rational thing to do (Andy Whiten, personal communication).
200 The Origins of Meaning
themselves. None of the work surveyed, however, involves the copying of
clearly communicative behaviours.
Our target is to ﬁnd the seeds in animals’ learning of communication
of the kind of learned behaviour seen in human language. What kind
of learning, within the above classiﬁcation, is involved when humans
learn vocabulary?15
To the extent that, for example, submission gestures
in animals are still iconic, they could be learned by emulation. That is,
a young animal might see that cowering deﬂects an imminent attack,
conjecture that rolling over could achieve the same eﬀect, and try rolling
over as a submissive gesture. This is unlikely, as submission gestures
are largely innately determined. However, we are looking for the emer-
gence of signals with an arbitrary, non-iconic, non-indexical, and not
physically causal, relationship to their function. This eliminates learning
by emulation as a candidate precursor to the human ability to acquire
vocabulary. If you observe someone successfully open a door by saying
‘Open, Sesame’, you cannot ﬁgure out any other way of getting the same
eﬀect, because the relationship between the utterance and its eﬀect is
arbitrary.
We are, furthermore, looking for the potential origins of reciprocal
signals, that can be used by any individual either as sender or as receiver.
This tends to eliminate ontogenetic ritualization, as the classic cases of
this kind of learning are in socially asymmetric situations, such as mother–
infant interactions. Tomasello (1990, p. 297), in an excellently careful and
informative article on the possibility of cultural transmission in chim-
panzees, reports a study in which ‘8 out of 28 signal types were one-
way signals; that is, they involved social functions that were solicited by
youngsters from adults, but not vice versa. For example, adults never
begged food or tickling from a youngster (nor did youngsters use these
with each other).’ Tomasello also notes that signals used at one stage in
a chimpanzee’s life, for example, in infancy, are often not used at another
stage, for example, because the animal has grown up, and no longer needs
speciﬁc infant-to-mother signals. The very process of ontogenetic ritu-
alization involves a somewhat protracted history of interaction between
two individuals, during the course of which both actors gradually adjust
and abbreviate or stereotype their respective actions to accommodate
each other. It would not be possible, in a large social group, for each
individual to participate in such a history of interaction with all the others,
so ontogenetic ritualization as a direct source of group-wide arbitrary
15
I put aside the acquisition of syntax for the moment, it being too far away from the
animal examples we have so far discussed.
Communication by Dyadic Acts 201
learned illocutionary signals, like English Hello and Bye, is unlikely. Chris
Knight agrees:
The nursing poke has no prospect of becoming circulated beyond the speciﬁc
mother–infant relationship in which it ﬁrst emerges. Each mother–infant dyad
must re-invent the wheel, as it were, arriving independently at its own idiosyn-
cratic version of the poke. Destined to survive only until that particular infant
is weaned, each such token, correspondingly, has no prospect of becoming a
cultural replicator or meme. ...
[Such] conventional signals will be conﬁned within isolated, restricted
pockets of social space where suﬃcient trust momentarily prevails. In their
capacity as incipient memes, therefore, such signals lack prospects of achiev-
ing immortality. They may evolve, but without leaving any descendants. Con-
sequently, neither linguistic nor more general symbolic cultural evolution can
get under way. (Knight 2002, p. 148)
(We will return to Knight’s important emphasis on mutual trust in later
chapters.)
This leaves imitation. Tomasello (1990)’s only candidate for this kind
of learning among chimpanzees is the ‘throw stuﬀ’ gesture used to attract
attention to the signaller. He reports a longitudinal study (Tomasello et al.
1989) in which all seven juvenile chimpanzees in a group had acquired a
‘throw stuﬀ’ behaviour as a way of attracting attention to themselves. In
the early phase of the study, this behaviour was absent; it seems to have
been invented after the introduction of woodchips into the compound,
and then generalized by the chimpanzees to throwing any loose material,
using any action: overarm, underarm, or backhand. After discussion,
Tomasello concludes that this is more likely to have been a case of emula-
tion, rather than imitation, although the restriction to throwing stuﬀ does
indicate an imitative element.
Myowa-Yamakoshi et al. (2004) have shown that newborn chimpanzees
do imitate some facial expressions (tongue protrusion and mouth open-
ing), just as Meltzoﬀ and Moore (1977, 1983) showed that newborn
human babies do. They conclude that ‘the capacity for neonatal imitation
is a characteristic that is common to humans and chimpanzees. How-
ever, the ability to imitate a broad range of whole-body actions or facial
expressions is probably an attribute that evolved after the human lineage
separated from that of chimpanzees’ (p. 441). The instinct to imitate
is shared by humans and chimpanzees, but humans have developed it
further. It is also evident that latent imitative dispositions in chimpanzees
are drawn out more readily in captivity than in the wild. The imitation of
facial gestures is communicative only in a basic sense. The infant (human
202 The Origins of Meaning
or chimp) communicates some empathy with the imitatee. But nothing
more than this is communicated. Imitation of facial gestures can be said
to show that a channel for communication is open, but no actual messages
pass through the channel.
The overall conclusion is that there is some learning of communicative
signals in wild chimpanzees, but not of the kind, as Tomasello and Knight
rightly point out, that could lead to the kind of group-wide reciprocal
signalling characteristic of humans.16
Knight also introduces the theme
of trust and motivation, to which we will return.
So, have we reached yet another dead end in our search for precursors
of human language? I don’t think so; here’s why. Learning, of what-
ever kind, is one small step in the human direction from largely geneti-
cally determined signals. Apes, and especially chimpanzees and bonobos,
exhibit greater plasticity of behaviour, including communicative behav-
iour, than other primates. Apes, compared to other non-human primates,
are ace learners.
Just being able to learn communicative behaviours is not the single step
that takes us from pre-human to human. There is no such single step. A
lot of elements of behaviour had to come together to give us human lan-
guage. Richard Shillcock (personal communication) said, ‘Chimps have
a motivation problem’. Note that emulation, as opposed to imitation, as
characterized above, is well motivated. The emulator can see what he is
likely to get out of an action. But why imitate? What does the baby, in
sticking out its tongue in imitation of an adult, get out of it? A reassuring
smile at best, but that doesn’t compare in stark evolutionary terms with
the practical nourishing result that a chimpanzee gets from emulating its
parent ﬁshing for termites. Imitation is in a clear sense less ‘intelligent’
than emulation, which involves some calculation of speciﬁc causes and
eﬀects. Humans with autistic spectrum disorder are well known to per-
form poorly in imitating actions (see Williams et al. 2004 for a review).
Interestingly, Horner and Whiten (2005) have shown that children
deploy a less ‘intelligent’ strategy than chimpanzees in solving a problem
involving retrieving an object from a box. The subjects were shown how to
get the object in a demonstration which included some causally irrelevant
actions. Where it was clear how to retrieve the object, the chimpanzees cut
straight to the chase, and extracted it without repeating the causally irrel-
evant actions. The children, on the other hand, imitatively went through
16
Pika et al. (2003, p. 95) reach a similar conclusion for gorillas: ‘Ontogenetic ritualiza-
tion is the main process involved, but some form of social learning may also be responsible
for the acquisition of special gestures.’
Communication by Dyadic Acts 203
all the motions of the original demonstration, including the causally
irrelevant ones. The authors suggest ‘the diﬀerence in performance of
chimpanzees and children may be due to a greater susceptibility of chil-
dren to cultural conventions’ (p. 164). A language, of course, is the para-
mount instance of a set of cultural conventions. But we are constantly
reminded that the chimpanzee/human diﬀerence is a matter of degree, for
Whiten et al. (2005) have shown that some chimpanzees who had discov-
ered their own method of solving a practical problem ‘nevertheless went
on to match the predominant approach of their companions, showing a
conformity bias that is regarded as a hallmark of human culture’ (p. 737).
Chimpanzees, sensibly enough, can’t see as much point as children
in pure imitation for its own sake, with no immediate reward. We can
safely assume, however, that human infants, with their strong instinctive
urge to imitate (Meltzoﬀ and Moore 1977, 1983), are not wasting their
energy. The energy used in imitation by infants is a kind of long-term
investment, or, in an alternative metaphor, the price of an entry ticket
into a game played with arbitrary symbols. Children do not, of course,
make any conscious calculation about the ultimate beneﬁts of imitation.
If there is a goal at all (and it is surely not conscious), it is to achieve
some kind of immediate empathic bonding with the adult who is being
imitated. Human children are nature’s ﬁrst, and so far only, beneﬁciaries
of the ‘discovery’ by genetic evolution of an imitative behaviour leading
to the building of learned conventional arbitrary symbolic codes.
It is easy to see what chimpanzees get out of the kind of learning they
are good at. Monkeys and apes, and especially chimpanzees, live in highly
political societies, as emphasized in much recent work (e.g. Byrne and
Whiten Byrne and Whiten 1988; de Waal de Waal 1998). The phrase
‘Machiavellian intelligence’ has been aptly applied to primate social life.
Here are some examples:
Ten years of observation by Toshisada Nishida and his colleagues, of Ntologi,
the alpha male of Mahale, shows that the patterns of sharing can be complex
(Nishida et al. 1992). Ntologi did not share with young males rising in the
dominance hierarchy, nor with the beta-male; in other words, he avoided
sharing with any animal who presented a threat to his high status. It was not
a matter of personalities or grudges: when one beta-male dropped in rank,
then Ntologi began to share meat with him.’ (Byrne 1995, p. 200)
Beside the well-recognized importance of dominance hierarchies in pri-
mate societies, de Waal (1998, p. 207) emphasizes the importance of a
204 The Origins of Meaning
second layer: a network of positions of inﬂuence. ...[I]ndividuals losing a top
rank certainly do not fall into oblivion: they are still able to pull many strings.
In the same way, an individual rising in rank and at ﬁrst sight appearing to be
the big boss does not automatically have the greatest say in all matters.
Neocortex size is directly related to the Machiavellian aspects of primate
social life: ‘We show that the use of deception within the primates is well
predicted by the neocortical volume’ (Byrne and Corp 2004, p. 1). Picking
up the theme of deception, one further quotation gives the ﬂavour of
monkey and ape politics, and mentions a factor, namely the directing of
attention, that we will pick up in the next chapter:
Although the insight necessary to plan or understand deception seems to be
restricted to great apes, monkeys use deception often, apparently learning the
tactics from lucky coincidences by the trial and error of conditioning [i.e.
individual/associative learning, JRH]. ...The tricks are many and various.
Most concern the manipulation of attention (Whiten and Byrne, 1988), where
an animal’s focus of attention is shifted towards or away from just what will
most proﬁt the agent of the deceit. (Byrne 1995, p. 203)
All the studies cited above were of colonies of wild or semi-wild chim-
panzees. In these circumstances, genuine cases of learning by imitation
are certainly extremely rare, compared to humans. Yet captive bonobos,
including the famous Kanzi, can learn by third-person imitation. Kanzi
observed his mother being taught lexigrams (without success). Later he
showed that he had mastered many of the form-meaning pairings that
his mother had failed to learn, and began, to his keepers’ surprise, to use
them. Kanzi was not a member of a large colony of conspeciﬁcs. Many of
his social fellows were humans.
Monkeys and apes in their natural groups are wily, scheming, com-
petitive creatures, constantly on the lookout for their own advantage.
In their natural habitats, they learn large inventories of contingent facts
about the particular individuals in their group, regularly updating these
mental databases to keep track of shifting alliances, the rise and fall of
rivals, and who mates with whom. They deploy this learned knowledge
productively in social manipulation that is directly advantageous to them.
This manipulation involves a lot of communication, but of a kind that
falls short of what would be required to get human-like language up and
running. The very move from largely innate signals to learned signals is a
step in the human direction, but at least one ingredient is missing, and I
have suggested, following Chris Knight, that this has to do with trust, a
topic that will be taken up in Chapter 9.
C H A P T E R S E V E N
Going Triadic: Precursors of
Reference
Dyadic communication involves only two creatures: a sender and a
receiver of a message. Such communication is not about anything exter-
nal to the sender and the receiver. It is just a matter of one animal or
person doing something to another, like greeting it, or threatening it, or
submitting to it. This kind of communication is widespread in the animal
kingdom. We now turn to triadic communication, where the message-
sender communicates to a receiver about some third entity, an object or
event in the outside world. This chapter, therefore, will start to discuss the
origins of reference in communication.
The qualiﬁcation ‘in communication’ is necessary, because, as I argued
in Part I of this book, reference in its most basic, original form exists
before communication. When an animal contemplates in solitude some
object, scene, or event, the animal’s brain is in a certain state characteristic
of attention to that particular object, scene, or event. This brain state, I
argued, refers (in a non-communicative way) to whatever in the outside
world is being attended to. Thus the key psychological factor relating to
reference is attention. We have seen in the previous chapter how animals
manipulate each other. Here we get more speciﬁc, and investigate the ways
in which animals manipulate each other’s attention to things in the world
outside them.
7.1 early manipulation of attention
As mentioned brieﬂy in the last chapter, apes can track and manipulate
the attention of others. On gaze-following in apes, there is unanimity
among researchers. All great ape species follow gaze to distant locations
and around barriers (Bräuer et al. 2005; see also Povinelli et al. 2003;
Povinelli and Eddy 1997). Bräuer et al. (2005)’s experiments were with
206 The Origins of Meaning
apes following human gaze. Tomasello et al. (1998) also showed that ﬁve
species of primates (chimpanzees, sooty mangabeys, and three species of
macaques) follow the gaze of conspeciﬁcs. ‘Individuals from all species
reliably followed the gaze of conspeciﬁcs, looking to the food about 80%
of the time in experimental trials, compared with about 20% of the time
in control trials’ (Tomasello et al. 1998, p. 1063). Anderson and Mitchell
(1999, p. 17) ‘compared the propensity of lemurs (Eulemur macaco) and
macaques (Macaca arctoides) to engage in VCO [visual co-orientation],
deﬁned as turning to look in the same direction as another individual
whose focus of attention changes. The macaques consistently showed
VCO whereas the lemurs showed no such response.’ This study used
humans as the ‘other’ individuals. Perhaps lemurs are more responsive to
their own species. Scerif et al. (2004) have shown that Diana monkeys can
follow the gaze of familiar conspeciﬁcs, even from such artiﬁcial stimuli
as photographs of the conspeciﬁc gazer. Domestic goats also follow the
gaze of humans and conspeciﬁcs (Kaminski et al. 2005), but goats have
not been tested for gaze-following around barriers. (These last authors
found that goats, besides being good at following eyegaze, were also quite
good at detecting the location of a desired object by following human
pointing, like other domesticated species. Locating an object after seeing
pointing is a separate topic from following eyegaze, and is taken up in the
next section.)
It is sometimes suggested that the prominence of the sclera (white of
the eye) in humans, as opposed to other species, helps in gaze-following.
Clearly there is some truth in this; see Kobayashi and Kohshima (1997);
Emery (2000); Ricciardelli et al. (2000); Symons et al. (2004) for some
recent work on human sclerae in relation to gaze-following. But animals
with less prominent sclerae1
can use head orientation as a clue to gaze
direction. The subject is complicated by the fact that animals of some
species, such as orangutans, avoid looking each other directly in the face,
and so must usually do gaze-following covertly (see Kaplan and Rogers
2002).
Is gaze-following ‘merely’ an automatic response, or does it involve
some calculation of the gazer’s reasons for looking where he is looking?
Both. Bräuer et al. (2005) compare an ‘orienting-response’ model with
a ‘perspective-taking’ model. It is important to notice that these are
not strict alternatives. The perspective-taking model includes an initial
step of an orienting response. Emery (2000) discusses the hypothesis that
1
See http://www.sciences.une.edu.au/zoology/docs/orangposter.pdf for some good pic-
tures of orangutans looking sideways, and showing some eye-white. (This website was still
active on 23/08/2006.)
Going Triadic: Precursors of Reference 207
gaze-following is ‘hardwired’ in the brain, and may be localized within a
circuit linking the superior temporal sulcus, amygdala, and orbitofrontal
cortex.
There are regions in the monkey and human brain which contain neurons that
respond selectively to faces, bodies and eye gaze. The ability to follow another
individual’s gaze direction is aﬀected in individuals with autism and other
psychopathological disorders, and after particular localized brain lesions.
(Emery 2000, p. 581)
This situation is very reminiscent of the dorsal/ventral separation, dis-
cussed in Part I of this book (Chapter 4.2). One mechanism in the
brain delivers a fast orienting response, allowing other mechanisms in the
brain to carry out other, more ‘calculating’ operations, which are also,
in humans, more accessible to conscious report. Bräuer et al. (2005) argue
convincingly in favour of a perspective-taking mechanism in primate gaze-
following. That is, the animals not only instinctively follow eyegaze, but
are also able to behave in calculating ways, depending on what they ﬁnd
on following gaze. Evidence includes facts such as the following:
Call, Hare, and Tomasello (1998) found in their study that when a chimpanzee
tracked the gaze of a human to a location and found nothing interesting there,
they quite often looked back to the individual’s face and tracked their gaze
direction a second time (the so-called double looks). ...
On observing a human experimenter repeatedly looking up into empty
space, adult chimpanzees, but not infant chimpanzees, habituated and
stopped responding. This may suggest that adults can overwrite the orienting
response because they know that there is actually nothing unusual to look at,
whereas infants are more tightly controlled by the orienting response.
(Bräuer et al. 2005, pp. 145–146)
Active manipulation of attention happens in at least two ways, positively
or negatively, and as a cross-cutting dimension, the attention of the other
animal can relate to the actor itself, or to some strategic third object or
place.
As for examples of ‘positive’ attention-drawing to oneself, Whiten et al.
(1999) list ﬁve attention-getting actions observed in various wild chim-
panzee colonies: knuckle-knocking, sapling branch-bending and releas-
ing, branch-slapping, noisy stem-pulling, and squashing shrub stems
underfoot. In captivity, chimpanzees show awareness of the target indi-
vidual’s state. Thus, they use sounds to attract the attention of some-
one (human or chimpanzee) facing away from them, and visual gestures
to draw the attention of someone already facing them (Bodamer and
Gardner 2002; Leavens et al. 2004). The purpose of such attention-getting
208 The Origins of Meaning
is usually to initiate some activity like play (‘Come on, let’s play’), to be
included in some activity such as feeding (‘Hey, let me in, too’), or to
issue a warning. Gómez (2005a) describes experiments with captive chim-
panzees, in which three out of six initiated attention-getting behaviours
when ignored by a normally attentive human. The three chimps who did
not show attention-getting behaviour ‘were those with less experience of
humans in their early years’ (p. 71). Despite these mixed results, Gómez
concludes that ‘available evidence suggests that chimpanzees can not only
detect attention contact but also actively provoke it in a strategic way’
(p. 71). We have already mentioned sexual advertisement signals, which
can also be counted as attention-getting signals.
As for negative manipulation of attention, distracting or keeping atten-
tion away from oneself, the most obvious case is hiding, or hiding what
one is doing.
As an illustrative example of the use of such tactical deception by primates,
consider the predicament of a female prevented by a dominant male from
contact with a younger male. This may not be in her interests, and she has
various options. She may carefully manage to become separated from the
bulk of the group, alone with the younger male. ...Sound can still reveal what
is happening, and she additionally may travel especially quietly ...or inhibit
loud copulation calls that are usually a reliable indicator of mating in some
species. (Byrne and Whiten 1992, p. 613)
This is manipulation of attention, but not by signalling; rather it is by lack
of any attention-drawing action.
7.2 indexical/deictic pointing
So far, this kind of signalling, or non-signalling, is still dyadic, not
involving any third entity besides, the signaller (or non-signaller) and
the addressee. But it shows an essential ingredient of one kind of triadic
communication, namely the manipulation of an addressee’s attention.
Negative examples of triadic attention manipulation, away from strategic
objects, again come from the literature on tactical deception. A common
type of example is an animal, on noticing food in the presence of others,
acting nonchalantly as if they have not noticed it, so that the attention of
the other animals will not be attracted to it. Byrne and Whiten (1992) clas-
sify this as ‘concealment by inhibiting interest in object’. Another class is
‘concealment by hiding an object’. A much-cited case involving both these
types of concealment is described by Menzel (1974): here Belle, a female
Going Triadic: Precursors of Reference 209
chimpanzee, tired of losing food to a dominant male, Rock, would sit on
the food, hiding it, until Rock left. The case is further interesting, because
Rock realized what was going on after a few episodes, and developed a
counterdeception strategy of shoving her aside, when he suspected that
she was hiding food. Thereupon, Belle negatively manipulated his atten-
tion in a diﬀerent way, by not approaching the food so closely, whereupon
Rock started to search the area around her.2
Of course, the kind of attention manipulation that eventually paves the
way for reference in language is positive, drawing the attention of another
creature to some object, scene, or event in the surroundings. This typically
requires some cooperative relationship between the animals, and interest-
ingly such cooperative positive manipulation of another’s attention to a
third entity is rare, if even found at all in non-human primates in the wild.
Wild primates, being at least as often competitive rather than cooperative
with each other, frequently act to draw other creatures’ attention away
from objects. The most common cooperative triadic act is food-sharing.
Not all food-sharing is active giving; sometimes it is more a case of just
not defending the food, so that others can ‘share’ it. In other cases, when
an ape or monkey more deliberately gives a piece of meat to another, the
giver is in some sense simultaneously attending to both the recipient and
the meat-lump. But such giving is very rare in primates, even from mothers
to infants, and in any case it is barely communication ‘about’ the food.
7.2.1 Begging and Pointing in Animals
A more communicative triadic act than food-giving is begging for food.
This needs to be distinguished from simply reaching for food, which is
not communicative. A criterion for begging is simultaneous management
of attention to the giver and to the desired object. Diagnosing such dual
attention in the animal involves seeing where it is looking. If the animal
looks back and forth between the object and the face of the other animal,
while gesturing towards the object, this ‘gaze alternation’ is taken as a
sign that it is monitoring the attention of the other animal to the object
of shared attention, and therefore begging, rather than merely reaching.
Chimpanzees sometimes beg for objects other than food, such as a tool,
paying the same kind of attention to the attitude of the human with the
tool (Russell et al. 2005).
2
This example of a deception/counterdeception arms race is also quoted in full in Byrne
(1995).
210 The Origins of Meaning
Gómez (2005b) gives a thorough survey of begging and requesting
gestures in monkeys and apes, addressing the question of the extent to
which such gestures can be considered referential. Apes seem on the whole
to beg more than monkeys. Such begging behaviour has been observed
in a captive hand-reared gorilla (Gómez 1990, 1991, 1992), in captive
chimpanzees (Leavens and Hopkins 1998), and in captive orangutans
and bonobos (Gómez 1996). As in the case of dyadic attention-drawing,
begging apes in particular are sensitive to the attentive posture of a human
giver. Liebal et al. (2004) found that apes requesting food from a human
would move around to the front of the person if he or she were facing away
from the ape. Chimpanzees and bonobos were better at this than gorillas
and orangutans. But Povinelli et al. (2003) present careful experimental
evidence that begging chimpanzees do not do a careful calculation of
whether the relevant human can see them or not. For instance, in the
presence of two human experimenters, one with her back to the chimp
but looking over her shoulder with open eyes towards him, and the
other facing the chimp but with eyes shut, the chimp begged towards the
experimenter with eyes shut. Povinelli et al. (2003)’s other experiments
showed that begging chimpanzees have a clear preference for begging
from someone whose body is facing them, but this does not extend to
a more detailed consideration of whether that person can in fact see them;
for instance, chimps begged as much from experimenters facing them with
their hands over their eyes as from experimenters facing them with eyes
open and uncovered.
The results of this extended series of studies suggested that despite their
natural use of the begging gesture, and despite their interest in the eyes and
gaze direction of others, chimpanzees do not, in fact, understand a key aspect
of these gestures—namely, that the gestures must be seen by the recipients in
order for the gesture to function. In contrast, by 2 years of age, young children
seem to understand this aspect of seeing (Lempers et al. 1977; Povinelli and
Eddy 1996). (Povinelli et al. 2003, pp. 58–59)
Note that all these observations involved captive animals. Captive ani-
mals address begging gestures to humans much more than wild ani-
mals do to each other in their free state. This indicates that the animals
have learnt certain characteristic human, and uncharacteristically ape- or
monkey-like, ways in captivity. Life in the zoo mostly involves being fed
by a human, rather than foraging on your own. Captive animals expect
humans to feed them. Such generosity is much less common in wild
troops, occurring most frequently from mothers to their infants. And the
relationship between a captive adult primate and its human keeper is not
Going Triadic: Precursors of Reference 211
unlike the wild infant–mother relationship. So adult monkeys and apes
in captivity can learn begging gestures, or resurrect their natural infantile
begging gestures.
Begging is communicative, whereas mere reaching is not. We now need
to make another distinction, between ‘imperative’ begging and ‘declara-
tive’ pointing.3
Imperative begging involves trying to get something for
oneself, by enlisting the help of someone else—‘Give me that!’ Declara-
tive pointing involves drawing someone’s attention to an object with no
desire to get it—‘Look at that!’ Pointing is in many circumstances more
disinterested than begging, and perhaps even altruistic or cooperative.
A reasonable operational criterion to tell whether an animal is begging
for something or pointing to it is the practical availability of the object
involved. If the object is within reach of the addressee, but not the ges-
turer, and the addressee could easily get the object and pass it to the
gesturer, the gesturer could well be begging (though we can’t know for
certain). If, on the other hand, the object is practically out of reach of
the addressee, and furthermore if the addressee had not been previously
attending to it, it seems likely that the gesturer is pointing. (Note, linguists,
how these criteria closely match the felicity conditions on speech acts,
such as requesting (Austin 1962; Searle 1969, 1979). Possibly in the act
of pointing, less monitoring of the other animal’s gaze is involved than in
an act of begging.
The distinction between begging and pointing is not always carefully
respected, and furthermore we enter here an area in which there is some
factual disagreement among researchers. I will try to separate out the
nuggets of agreement. Three parameters (in part already mentioned) are
important:
r a dimension with diﬀerent species ranged along it,4
from monkeys
through apes, with chimpanzees and bonobos near the end of the axis,
and humans at the extreme;
3
The imperative/declarative terminology is common in the literature on pointing, and I
will keep to it here for convenience. But these terms invoke certain incorrect presuppositions
which I will explain towards the end of this section, when we get to the relation between
ape pointing and human baby pointing.
4
This ‘species dimension’ is not intended to portray the idea, outdated since Darwin,
of a scala naturae, or ladder of nature, with each successive species ‘improving’ on the
previous one. As our interest is in speciﬁcally human capacities, this dimension reﬂects
nothing more than similarity to humans in species’ pointing-like behaviour, which happens
to correlate approximately with genetic closeness to humans. See Donald (2001, pp. 113–
117) for a discussion of the scala naturae in the light of modern knowledge and a quest for
what makes us human.
212 The Origins of Meaning
r an environmental dimension from wild, through non-home-reared cap-
tive, to home-reared captive animals;
– in a captive environment, whether the animal is interacting with a
human or with a conspeciﬁc.
Reporting on Blaschke and Ettlinger (1987)’s experiments with rhesus
macaques, Gómez writes, ‘on the one hand the monkeys needed a lot of
training [an average of 428 trials] to point; on the other, some spontan-
eously produced joint attention behaviours, and the training was trans-
ferred to comprehension’ (Gómez, 2005b, p. 95). By contrast, Leavens
et al. (2005, p. 185) write that ‘pointing emerges spontaneously, without
explicit training, in captive chimpanzees. Because pointing is so common-
place in captive chimpanzees and virtually absent in wild chimpanzees,
and because both captive and wild chimpanzees are sampled from the
same gene pool, pointing by captive apes is attributable to environmental
inﬂuences on communicative development.’ Leavens (2004, p. 388) gives a
helpful table, which is worth reproducing in full (Table 7.1. on p. 213).
The ‘insuﬃcient data’ reported in Table 7.1 for chimpanzees in the wild
is in dispute:
There is no convincing evidence that natural populations of chimpanzees (i.e.
chimpanzees with only marginal contact with humans) display the pointing
gesture. Plooij (1978) conducted an analysis of the communicative gestures of
young chimpanzees at Gombe and reported no evidence for the appearance of
the gesture. Furthermore, neither of the two major long-term studies of the
natural history of chimpanzees (which have each spanned nearly 40 years)
have reported the presence of the pointing gesture in chimpanzees (Goodall,
1986; Nishida, 1970). (Povinelli et al. 2003, p. 41).
Despite some disagreements in the literature, it is fairly clear that, as
we move along the feral→home-reared scale, and also along the species
dimension from monkeys through great apes to humans, declarative5
pointing increases. Obviously more data need to be collected in the wild,
though that will not be easy. Apes do point, in captivity, as Leavens et al.
(2005) demonstrate. It is clear that the pointing in captivity is not just
‘reaching’, because it is sensitive to the presence of people who could
help the chimpanzees get the food, and therefore is at least somewhat
5
I stick to the term declarative, since it is used by Leavens and other authors, but an act
of pointing in order to attract the attention of an onlooker to some object does not have the
force of a human declarative sentence. The adoption of terminology from one discipline by
another can cause misunderstanding.
Going Triadic: Precursors of Reference 213
Table 7.1 Phylogenetic patterns in manual deixis.
Characteristics of pointing
Imperative? Declarative?
Humans
Western civilization, Japan (Homo sapiens)a
Yes Yes
Autismb
Yes Rare
Great apes (captive, language-trained or home-reared)
Chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes)c
Yes Yes
Bonobos (Pan paniscus)d
Yes Yes
Gorillas (Gorilla gorilla)e
Yes Yes
Orangutans (Pongo pygmaeus)f
Yes Yes
Great apes (captive, neither language-trained
nor home-reared)
Chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes)g
Yes No
Bonobos (Pan paniscus)h
Yes No
Gorillas (Gorilla gorilla)i
No No
Orangutans (Pongo pygmaeus)j
Yes N/A
Great apes (feral, in natural habitats)
Chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes)k
N/A N/A
Bonobos (Pan paniscus)l
N/A Yes
Gorillas (Gorilla gorilla) N/A N/A
Orangutans (Pongo pygmaeus) N/A N/A
Monkeys (captive)
Rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta)m
Yes N/A
Capuchin (Cebus apella)n
Yes N/A
Monkeys (feral, in natural habitats) No reports of pointing to date
Notes: N/A = insuﬃcient data. Representative references: a(Bates et al. 1987); b(Baron-Cohen
et al. 1996); c(Gardner and Gardner 1971; Kellogg and Kellogg 1933; Savage-Rumbaugh 1986);
d (Savage-Rumbaugh et al. 1998); e(Bonvillian and Patterson 1999); f (Call and Tomasello 1994;
Furness 1916; Miles 1990); g(Leavens and Hopkins 1998; Leavens et al. 1996; Leavens et al.
2004); h(Savage-Rumbaugh et al. 1977); i (Pika et al. 2003; Tanner and Byrne 1999); j (Call and
Tomasello 1994); k(Inoue-Nakamura and Matsuzawa 1997); l (Veá and Sabater-Pi 1998); m(Hess
et al. 1993); n(Mitchell and Anderson 1997).
Source: Leavens (2004, p. 388).
calculating of the attention of other creatures. Leavens et al. (2005, p. 185)
report that ‘Between 41% and 71% of chimpanzees in our studies point
to unreachable food, with sample sizes ranging from 29 to 115 subjects.’
(So between 59% and 29% of the chimpanzees didn’t point, or weren’t
observed pointing.)
214 The Origins of Meaning
The important parameter missing from these summaries is whether
the addressees are ever conspeciﬁcs. Tomasello et al. (2005, p. 685) write:
‘Apes do not point, show or even actively oﬀer things to conspeciﬁcs.’
Butterworth comes the same conclusion: ‘on the evidence to date, only
humans use the pointing gesture declaratively to share attention with
conspeciﬁcs’ (2003, p. 29) Contrast these statements with:
Savage-Rumbaugh (1986) reported 37 instances in which Sherman and
Austin, two language-trained chimpanzees, pointed in communication
between themselves. What distinguishes Sherman and Austin from most other
captive apes is that they were explicitly raised in a food-sharing culture; that
is, they were trained to share and to take turns from an early age. Hence,
they were often placed in experimental circumstances in which their training
required them to await the actions of the other. In these circumstances, they
frequently pointed, apparently to draw the attention of the other to the
correct response, or to items of fallen food’. (Leavens, 2004, p. 399).
The only evidence of chimpanzees pointing in the wild comes from a very
limited domain. During grooming, they point to those bodyparts that
they want the groomer to groom, and these pointing gestures are acted
upon by the groomers signiﬁcantly often. The researchers who discovered
this write: ‘Our observations suggest that the recipient of the signal has
an understanding of the intended meaning of the gesture and that wild
chimpanzees use gestures to specify an area of the body to be groomed
and to depict a desired future action’ (Pika and Mitani 2006, p. 192).
This limited and closely interpersonal use of referential pointing has not
been generalized by wild chimpanzees to pointing to objects outside the
pointer’s body.
It is accepted that captive apes often point to things while addressing
humans. Some of the most impressive examples are reported by Menzel
(2005). His chimpanzee Panzee pointed very regularly, accurately, and
spontaneously to locations of food she had seen hidden outside her
enclosure, sometimes days before. She was also adept at pointing to a
place on a video screen showing the food location, if she could not actually
point outside. More impressively (and bizarrely) she could operate a joy-
stick to manoeuvre a laser pointer device (mounted beyond her reach) to
place a laser dot on the location of food hidden outside her enclosure, with
the same function as hand-ﬁnger pointing, successfully guiding a naive
human helper to ﬁnd the food.
Although the broad factual outlines are pretty clear, there is dis-
agreement among researchers on matters of detail regarding pointing by
Going Triadic: Precursors of Reference 215
primates in the wild, partly arising from diﬀerences in research methods
and traditions. Some of the diﬀerences over matters of fact arise between
ﬁeld observers and laboratory experimenters. In Leavens’ table (Table 7.1
above), a ‘Yes’ is given for declarative pointing in the wild for bonobos,
drawing on a study by Veá and Sabater-Pi (1998). It needs to be mentioned
that this response is based on only one individual animal; the report
should be regarded with caution, because the exact conditions under
which it was observed were not clearly controlled. There is a methodolog-
ical problem of contamination with trying to get data on wild animals.
In trying to do controlled experiments, especially when trying to elicit
deliberate behaviour such as pointing, the situation can easily become
artiﬁcial, and not of the kind that animals are likely to encounter in their
normal wild lives. (This is not to say that experiments in the wild cannot
be very useful; they can, as is shown, for example, by the experiments
on wild vervets by Cheney and Seyfarth 1990 and on Diana monkeys by
Zuberbühler et al. 1999.)
The value of ﬁeld observations, collected without controlled experi-
ment, has been defended by Byrne (1997). Interestingly, experimentalists
took about a decade to agree with the conclusions on apes’ knowing
the intentions of others put forward by Byrne and Whiten (1992) on
the basis of ﬁeld observations systematically analysed. And still not all
experimentalists agree. Here is a taste of the movement in the ﬁeld:
With regard to the understanding of goal-directed action, there is currently a
good bit of controversy. Povinelli and Vonk (2003) consider the understanding
of goals and perceptions to be an instance of understanding mental states,
and their view is that apes understand only behavior not mental states. In
contrast, Tomasello, Call, and Hare (2003) (revising the view expressed in
Tomasello and Call (1997)), argue that there are now new data which compel
us to attribute to great apes the ability to understand intentional action in
terms of goals and perceptions. (Tomasello et al. 2005, p. 684)
I conclude that the state of knowledge at the moment is that bonobos
and other apes in the wild point declaratively with conspeciﬁcs extremely
rarely at most, and quite probably never, except in the limited domain
of pointing to the pointer’s own bodyparts during grooming; in captiv-
ity they point declaratively much more, to external objects, mostly with
humans, but occasionally, depending on how they have been raised, with
conspeciﬁcs.
Now what are we to make of all this information on pointing? We are
trying to discern the relevant diﬀerences between apes and humans, and
216 The Origins of Meaning
to see, if we can, the beginning of a route that could culminate (once
joined by other evolutionary tributary pathways) in human language.
For the sake of some concreteness in the arguments, I will describe three
hypotheses (two adopted from Leavens et al. (2005) and one of my own)
and then see how they ﬁt the facts.
Promethean hypothesis: ‘Through continued close association with human
caregivers, captive apes achieve an insight that their caregivers have inde-
pendent agency (i.e. are intentional beings). ...[E]xposure to humans invests
captive apes with a novel cognitive capacity, the capacity to recognize and
manipulate intentional states in others.’ (Leavens et al. 2005, pp. 303–304)
Social tool use hypothesis: ‘According to this hypothesis, captive apes will
have had long experience with humans as ‘food-delivery machines’; that
is, they will have experienced so many instances in which caregivers have
delivered food that when faced with a situation in which both desirable, but
unreachable, food and a human are present, pointing emerges as a simple
solution to a common problem faced in captivity (but not in the wild).’
(Leavens et al. 2005, p. 304)
Cooperative environment hypothesis: Wild apes already have the insight that
other apes are intentional beings; this does not just dawn on them only in
captivity. But in the wild environment, apes are so seldom cooperative with
each other that a helpful response to a pointing gesture is not expected. In
captivity, they readily attribute intentionality to humans, who are physically
similar to them; they know the diﬀerence between a human and a food-
delivery machine. They monitor human eyegaze. They learn in the captive
environment that humans are likely to respond helpfully to pointing ges-
tures, and deploy their native manipulative skills to achieve their ends by
pointing.
This last hypothesis foreshadows a theme of (non-)cooperativeness in
apes that will pervade much of the next chapter, and will be explicitly
discussed in Chapter 9. It should be evident that I favour the last hypoth-
esis, mostly on the grounds that apes in the wild seem to display intense
and subtle attention to the attentional states of others, and to manipulate
them. Philosophically speaking, however, it must be admitted that the
issue is not so clear-cut. All the apes’ behaviour could be accounted for on
the hypothesis that they have learned to manipulate their human keepers
in the same way that humans learn to drive a car, without attribution
of intentions and desires to what is clearly a machine. Individual apes
and people are variably helpful and less predictable than cars, and what
apes evidently learn in captivity is not simply a set of rules for ‘driving a
Going Triadic: Precursors of Reference 217
human’, any human. Just as they register in the wild who is dominant and
who is subordinate, they register in captivity which humans are consider-
ate towards them and which are not, and adjust their behaviour accord-
ingly. This suggests an economical theory in the ape’s mind, making use of
such explanatory constructs as ‘goals’ and ‘intentions’ in terms of which
the dispositions of others can be represented. I certainly wouldn’t want
to espouse a Cartesian position according to which apes do not reason
about others in anything like the same way that humans do. The diﬀerence
between humans and apes lies partly in the degree of subtlety with which
we and they can carry out social calculations, just as expert chess-players
can calculate more moves ahead than beginners. This diﬀerence in calcu-
lating power can be conceived as a quantitative diﬀerence, but it is almost
certainly aﬀected by a qualitative diﬀerence between species, namely our
ability sometimes to reason about problems explicitly in language. We will
come to how that works in a subsequent book.
There is another qualitative diﬀerence between apes and humans that
helps us to understand why wild apes don’t point and captive apes do.
This is the fact that in their native wild state, apes are competitive, and not
cooperative, with each other. The crucial diﬀerence between competition
and cooperation is explored by Tomasello and his colleagues and largely
summarized in Tomasello et al. (2005). In competitive tasks, primates are
good at tracking the attention of others to objects, for their own selﬁsh
ends. They have what it takes to know whether another animal is attend-
ing to some desired object, and to manipulate the object, or the other
animal, to their own advantage. And they appear to act on the reasonable
assumption that other animals will have similar selﬁsh motivations. When
humans manipulate the attention of others to objects, it is often for a
cooperative purpose, as for example in saying ‘There’s an apple for you on
the table’. By contrast, even for such a humanized ape as Kanzi, 96% of
his utterances were requests (Savage-Rumbaugh et al. 1985).
More evidence of this lack of cooperative motivation in non-humans
will be given in Chapter 9. It explains why apes in the wild don’t point.
It may also explain why apes are not very good, in certain conditions, at
proceeding from deliberate indicating actions by humans to the locations
indicated. A test of this is the ‘object-choice’ task, where a particular
object, such as a cup or a bucket, is baited with food invisible to the
animal, while a similar object nearby is not baited; the animal subject has
to detect, on the basis of human signals, which receptacle contains the
food. Some of the research on this task, for various species, suggests an
interesting hypothesis about a diﬀerence between domesticated species,
218 The Origins of Meaning
such as dogs and goats, and non-domesticated species. Unfortunately,
however, the jury is still out, as there is disagreement about the compa-
rability of the results under diﬀerent experimental metaconditions. I will
explain, starting with the interesting hypothesis (which may be wrong).
Some experiments with chimpanzees, goats, domestic dogs, and wolves
have indicated that goats and domestic dogs are good at following human
signals in the object-choice paradigm, while wolves and chimpanzees are
much less good. The idea is encapsulated in the following abstract:
Dogs are more skillful than great apes at a number of tasks in which they must
read human communicative signals indicating the location of hidden food. In
this study, we found that wolves who were raised by humans do not show
these same skills, whereas domestic dog puppies only a few weeks old, even
those that have had little human contact, do show these skills. These ﬁndings
suggest that during the process of domestication, dogs have been selected for a
set of social-cognitive abilities that enable them to communicate with humans
in unique ways.
(Hare et al. 2002, p. 1634)6
Some of the relevant experiments are: on chimpanzees—Tomasello et al.
(1997); Call et al. (1998); Itakura et al. (1999); Call et al. (2000); on domes-
tic dogs—Miklosi et al. (1998); Hare and Tomasello (1999); Agnetta et al.
(2000); Soproni et al. (2001); Hare et al. (2002); on wolves—Hare et al.
(2002); Miklosi et al. (2003); and on goats—Kaminski et al. (2005); there
are also results for other animals.7
If dogs and goats have been selected, during the 10,000 or so years of
domestication, for their ability to follow human indications, and chim-
panzees and wolves, species not subject to selection by domestication,
can’t follow these indications (so well), it is tempting to include humans
6
Freedman (1958) compared four diﬀerent breeds of dogs, including Shetland sheep-
dogs and Basenjis. He found that Shetland sheepdogs had absorbed more human ‘morality’
than Basenjis. The sheepdogs stayed away from forbidden food even in the absence of a
punishing human, whereas the Basenjis ate the forbidden food as soon as the human’s
back was turned. Basenjis were domesticated in Africa, and preserve certain wild-like
characteristics, such as coming into heat only once a year.
7
‘Dolphins, Tursiops truncatus (Herman et al. 1999; Tschudin et al. 2001), fur seals,
Arctocephalus pusillus (Scheumann and Call 2004) and a grey seal, Halichoerus grypus
(Shapiro et al. 2003) were also skilful at using some human communicative cues in the
task (for example pointing and head orientation), but these were individuals reared and
extensively trained for other tasks by humans (e.g. for public shows in an aquarium). Of
four horses, Equus caballus, tested, only one was skilful (McKinley and Sambrook 2000)’
(Kaminski et al. 2005, p. 12). My student Karinna Hurley has shown that Exmoor ponies,
a primitive breed of horse, do not follow human pointing, unless perhaps those extensively
familiarized with humans (Hurley 2006).
Going Triadic: Precursors of Reference 219
themselves, who can follow human indications excellently, among the
domesticated species. Humans have domesticated themselves! Further-
more, if the social abilities of dogs can have been bred into them in such
a short period (10,000 years is a very short time for biological evolution),
it is quite plausible to suggest that over the 150,000 years of anatomically
modern Homo sapiens’ existence, a similar form of socio-genetic evolution
has taken place. (Putting it like this, there is room for the social evolution-
ary step(s) to have followed the anatomical evolutionary step that gave
us Homo sapiens.) Of course, why our species should have ‘domesticated
itself’ when others didn’t remains a puzzle.
Under artiﬁcial selection, a very humanized tame subspecies can
emerge in remarkably few generations. Trut (1999) describes a forty-
year experiment, in which Siberian foxes, usually bred for their fur, were
selected each generation for their friendliness, or lack of fear, towards
humans. After only six generations, a strain had emerged which followed
humans round like dogs, and responded to human attention by lick-
ing and tail-wagging—all traits very far removed from the wild, fearful,
aggressive behaviour of their great-great-great-great-grandparents. After
twenty generations, further traits not directly associated with tameness
emerged, including ﬂoppy ears and some piebald or mottled colouring
and shorter or curlier tails. Interestingly, some of these traits are also
characteristic of very young wild, unselected Siberian foxes. The artiﬁcial
selection process seems to have bred into the emergent strain a property
of prolonged juvenility. Humans, too, are notable for their long period
of childhood dependency. Neurochemical properties also evolved in the
foxes, including a lower basal level of corticosteroids and a higher level of
serotonin.
A process of human self-domestication can be envisaged like this. In
human prehistory, it is possible that mate selection involved selection for
friendliness, trustingness, and cooperativeness. Experiments by Melis et
al. (2006a, 2006b) show that, in a mutualistic setup, where cooperation
is beneﬁcial to both parties, chimpanzees, given a choice of cooperative
partner, will recruit a helper who is known to them to be more helpful,
in preference over an animal known to be less eﬀective as a collaborator.
Alternatively, there could have been infanticide, or parental neglect, of
oﬀspring who were not friendly, trusting or cooperative enough. Given
the evidence of the Siberian foxes, it would only take a little pressure in
this direction to produce the relatively amiable species that we are today.
A slight shadow has been cast over the hypothesis that domestication
correlates with better untrained ability to follow human signals. Barth
220 The Origins of Meaning
et al. (2005) distinguish between two experimental metaconditions in
object-choice experiments: in the LEAVE condition, the subject animal
enters the room after the food has been placed and leaves afterwards prior
to the next test; and in the STAY condition, the animal is in the room
for all tests, including while the food is hidden, but out of its sight. In
experiments of their own, Barth et al. (2005) showed that chimpanzees
performed better in the LEAVE condition than in the STAY condition,
and pointed out a possible source of bias in all the experiments on which
the interesting hypothesis described above was based. For instance, in
Hare et al. (2002)’s experiments, ‘the dogs were tested using the LEAVE
method, whereas the wolves were tested using the STAY method’ (Barth
et al. 2005, p. 91).
Ah, well, back to the lab. For my money, however, I bet there is some
viability in the domestication hypothesis. Watch this space.
7.2.2 Human Pointing and Linguistic Deixis
Whatever the relative abilities of domesticated and non-domesticated ani-
mals are, it is clear that human babies are a step up from all of them
in their natural pointing behaviour. Butterworth et al. (2002) describe a
number of ways in which pointing by human babies is species-speciﬁc.
[T]he function of pointing is referential and declarative from the outset (dif-
ferently from indicating in chimpanzees, which is exclusively requestive; e.g.
see (Gómez 1991) and (Leavens and Hopkins 1998)). Franco and Butterworth
(1996), for example, compared the incidence of pointing and reaching in 10-
18-month-old babies in diﬀerent communicative contexts in order to establish
whether pointing might develop out of failed reaching, as Vygotsky (1988)
argued, and therefore be associated with a request function. Pointing and
reaching gestures were never used interchangeably by babies who had recently
begun to point. From the outset, pointing was directed to distal targets and
was accompanied by vocalizations, positive aﬀect and visual checking with a
social partner, thus revealing communicative intent. Checking may also help
establish that the partner has comprehended the referent for the gesture. Thus,
pointing was used with the declarative function ...of sharing attention on a
referent with someone. (Butterworth et al. 2002, p. 2)
Furthermore, there is a close link in human babies between pointing and
language:
A link between pointing and speech development appears evident. Two
studies have shown that the age of onset of pointing and its frequency at
Going Triadic: Precursors of Reference 221
12 months predicts the amount of speech in production at 15 months and
also at 24 months (Butterworth and Morissette 1996; Camaioni et al. 1991).
For speech comprehension, babies depend on the adult’s referential acts,
including pointing (Baldwin 1991; Baldwin 1993) and they comprehend their
ﬁrst categorical nominals in the same week that they begin to point (Harris
et al. 1995). (Butterworth et al. 2002, p. 2)
Butterworth took as the title of a further article (Butterworth 2003)
‘Pointing is the Royal Road to Language for Babies’. His conclusions are
that human index-ﬁnger pointing is ‘biologically based and species spe-
ciﬁc [and]...intimately connected with species-typical handedness, preci-
sion grip, and acquisition of language’ (pp. 28–29). If not taken on their
strongest possible interpretation, these conclusions are justiﬁed on the evi-
dence to date. But it must be noted that the biological bias is not so strong
that it cannot be overridden by culture. We have seen that apes’ behaviour
can be strongly inﬂuenced by their social environment: wild apes don’t
point, captive apes point. A more subtle example is the diﬀerence between
index-ﬁnger pointing and whole-hand pointing, which in apes varies with
whether they have been language-trained. Leavens and Hopkins (1999,
p. 421) present a clear graph showing that captive but language-naive
chimpanzees point most with the whole hand; human babies between
8 and 12 months point mostly with the whole hand, but are beginning
to use the index ﬁnger; human babies from 13 to 18 months mainly use
the index ﬁnger, but still sometimes point with the whole hand; and
ﬁnally language-trained chimpanzees (presumably adult) use the index
ﬁnger most of all the creatures here compared. These results for humans
relate to Western babies. We should not be surprised to ﬁnd that some
innate biases in humans can also be aﬀected by cultural environment.
Indeed, index-ﬁnger pointing is not a human cultural universal. Wilkins
(2003) uses data from Arrernte, a central Australian (Pama-Nyungan)
language, to challenge two widely held views: ‘(a) that pointing with the
index ﬁnger is a universal human behavior, and (b) that pointing with
the index ﬁnger is not socially transmitted but is a basic (natural) form
of reference’ (Wilkins 2003, p. 171). Wilkins states: ‘Lip pointing ...can
be found in indigenous communities on all inhabited continents, which
strongly indicates independent development’ (p. 175). The communities
Wilkins mentions include the Kuna Indians of Panama,8
and cultures
in the North American Southwest, Guatemala, parts of South America,
8
For the Kuna, Wilkins cites Sherzer (1973, 1983, 1993).
222 The Origins of Meaning
central and northern Australia, and Papua New Guinea. Most tellingly,
Wilkins reports:
Mike Olson (personal communication) contended that there is no conven-
tional index-ﬁnger pointing among the Barai of Papua New Guinea. Lip
pointing, in contrast, is the ubiquitous deictic behavior and is highly con-
ventionalized. Certainly the Barai were confounded when Olson used index-
ﬁnger points with respect to objects as a means for getting names for them. It
was not apparently a matter of reading the behavior as impolite, but merely
not understanding the referential intent. Lip pointing is the primary means
of drawing a person’s attention to something for naming, and his attempts at
index-ﬁnger pointing could not engage the same dialogic interaction.
(Wilkins, 2003, p. 176)
Similar behaviour was conﬁrmed for the Yimas and Watam groups of
Papua New Guinea by the linguist Bill Foley. Importantly, however,
Wilkins does conclude: ‘pointing (i.e. the use of some part of the body
to make deictic gestural reference) appears to be [a human] universal’
(p. 212).
There are both genetic and environmental diﬀerences between apes
and human babies. And the genetic diﬀerences contribute to the environ-
mental diﬀerences. Apes genes do not dispose them, in a community of
conspeciﬁcs, to participate in shared goals, so they don’t point, or only
do so very rarely, in the wild. In home-reared circumstances, especially
when trained by humans to be somewhat cooperative with each other, they
can learn to point, as Sherman and Austin did. The diﬀerence could be
quite small. Let me illustrate from game theory. In the Iterated Prisoner’s
Dilemma, a favourite topic in Reciprocal Altruism theory (Trivers 1971;
Axelrod 1984), a successful strategy is ‘Tit-for-Tat’. This strategy says:
on meeting someone for the ﬁrst time, act cooperatively with them; on
subsequent meetings, act cooperatively with them if last time they acted
cooperatively with you, otherwise do not cooperate. Note the condition
for the ﬁrst meeting. It is crucial to the emergence of populations in
which reciprocal cooperation is the norm. If that condition on the ﬁrst
meeting starts set the other way (i.e. on meeting someone for the ﬁrst time,
don’t cooperate with them), what you get is a population in which non-
cooperation is the norm. Even a mutant with a ‘cooperate on ﬁrst meeting’
disposition born into such a population would end up as a lifelong non-
cooperator, because all the people he meets would do him down on the
ﬁrst meeting, after which he would apply the second condition—‘do as
they did to you’. Of course, a saintly mutant, cooperating with everyone
Going Triadic: Precursors of Reference 223
no matter how they act to him, would have poor survival chances. The
point is that a slight diﬀerence in inbuilt disposition can make a big diﬀer-
ence to the prevalent norms of the community, which then combine with
the inbuilt dispositions to determine a creature’s long-term behaviour.
Home-reared apes have no doubt been forgiven by their adult keepers
for early uncooperative acts, and so these keepers are not marked as
targets for non-cooperation by the main clause of the Tit-for-Tat rule.
Thus such home-reared apes are able to act somewhat cooperatively with
their human keepers, in this environment where cooperation is the norm.
We can bring the point closer to home by considering the eﬀect of a brutal
environment (e.g. some prisons) on people who would act more unselﬁshly
in a more congenial environment, and conversely the possible redeeming
eﬀect of a persistently congenial environment on a naturally fairly sociable
person raised in brutal conditions. But let’s not get too Pollyanna-ish—
some dispositions, whether genetic or environmentally conditioned, or a
bit of both, are hard to modify in adulthood.
Note on terminology: Butterworth et al. (2002) above, like Leavens
(2004) and others, use the term ‘declarative’ to distinguish the function
of ‘purely informative’ pointing from begging. The imperative/declarative
terminology is in danger of jumping too far towards language, being
borrowed from a grammatical tradition used to describe the structure of
sentences. The literature on pointing is only concerned with whether a
non-linguistic act is communicative. For this reason, we might consider
switching instead to Searle (1969)’s classiﬁcatory terms for speech acts,
using ‘directive’ (for requests and the like) and ‘assertive’ (for purely infor-
mative utterances). But in fact this would also not be satisfactory, because
pointing is not informative in the same way as a linguistic declarative
utterance, which, crucially, attributes some property to something, using
a word corresponding to a predicate. For example, utterances like ‘It’s
dead’ or ‘It’s a leopard’ or ‘It’s running’ tell a hearer something about
the object being referred to. Pointing, on its own, does not give such
information. Pointing merely draws attention. Pointing refers but does not
assert anything of the object referred to. The most appropriate term for
pointing, I believe, is deictic.9
The importance of all this for linguistic reference is that the most basic
form of reference is deixis, literally pointing. An early argument locating
deixis as the source of reference is in Lyons (1975). Deixis, or indexicality,
9
Deictic is a term favoured by linguists; indexical is the corrresponding term favoured
by philosophers. I will use them more or less interchangeably.
224 The Origins of Meaning
as the philosophers call it, is the kind of reference achieved by words
such as this and here, whose referent objects can only be identiﬁed by
observing the situation in which they are uttered. If I say ‘Here’ now, it
means somewhere in Edinburgh, whereas if my elder daughter says it now,
it means somewhere in Berlin, and if my younger daughter says it now, it
means somewhere in San Diego. Of course now is also deictic, pointing to
the time of utterance (or writing), so by the time you read this, the places
referred to may have changed again. Pointing with the ﬁnger is the same.
Believe it or not, I am pointing to something with my ﬁnger as I write this,
but you haven’t a clue what I am referring to, because you are not here.
The most basic kind of reference is of this portable, deictic kind. Pointing
is a useful device that can be used anywhere in face-to-face conversation,
to refer to anything where you are, just like the words this and here.
I’ll now relate deixis by ﬁnger-pointing to the discussion of predicate-
argument structure in Chapters 4 and 5 of Part I. When a creature’s
attention is drawn to an object, the dorsal stream mechanism directs
the eyes and head so that the object comes into focal attention. At this
point, before the ventral stream mechanisms can attribute properties to
the object, there is a ﬂeeting ‘bare-object’, propertyless representation in
the brain, which I have identiﬁed with a logical individual variable, such
as x, y, or z. In the notation proposed in Chapter 5, the bare object of
attention is represented as an empty box, –something’s there! Fill-
ing the box with predicate terms corresponds to assigning properties to
the variable argument. When a creature merely points to an object, she
directs the attention of an addressee to an object, without expressing
any properties of the object. If the pointing gesture is successful, the
addressee also attends to the same object, and a similar ﬂeeting bare-
object representation, , is formed in her brain, as her dorsal stream
locates the object. Of course, both parties in the exchange may bring
to mind certain selected predicates applying to the object, but all that
is actually communicated by the pointing gesture is the presence, and
relevance, of the object. Something’s there! Nothing is expressed about
it.
With both manual pointing and the use of deictic words, joint attention
to the object pointed to is involved. We have seen that many species closely
related to humans, and in particular chimpanzees, are fully capable of
attending to the same object as another animal, and checking that the
other animal is attending to it as well, but that, especially in the wild,
they lack the motivation to participate actively in this kind of cooperative
pointing behaviour. This raises a very general issue of the sources of
Going Triadic: Precursors of Reference 225
cooperativeness in humans, an issue central to linguistic pragmatics, and
to which we will return in a later chapter.
Something is now known about the neural basis of joint (as opposed
to non-joint) attention. Williams et al. (2005) have shown, using fMRI
scanning, that ‘Joint attention was associated with activity in the ventro-
medial frontal cortex, the left superior frontal gyrus (BA10), cingulate
cortex, and caudate nuclei. The ventromedial frontal cortex has been
consistently shown to be activated during mental state attribution tasks’
(p. 133). In other words, the same brain area is involved in joint attention
as is involved when people attribute mental states, such as knowing and
wanting, to other people. Moreover this brain area overlaps with an area
which some of the same authors have shown to be abnormal in autistic
spectrum disorder (Waiter et al. 2004, 2005).
Pointing with a hand or ﬁnger is diﬀerent in an important way from
linguistic deixis, in that it is largely indexical. The reservation implicit
in ‘largely’ here is due to the diﬃculty of imposing Peirce (1897/1955)’s
trichotomy icon/index/symbol in a completely watertight way. The con-
nection between a pointing gesture and the object pointed to is still
somewhat conventional and arbitrary (thus like a symbol), even though
it is obvious to us (if not to the Arrernte or the Kuna), whereas deictic
words such as this and here are, besides being indexical, also symbolic,
having only an arbitrary relationship with their meanings, and needing
to be learned in each separate language. These words straddle the gap
between purely indexical ﬁnger-pointing to some object in the immediate
situation of communication and the use of learned arbitrary symbols.
Deictic words such as this and here also draw a hearer’s attention to some
object in the immediate situation of communication, but to achieve this
eﬀect both participants have to have learned the same arbitrary symbols.
Positive attention-drawing to important things in the environment, but
by arbitrary symbolic means, expressing predicates, rather than by deictic
pointing, does occur in primates and indeed in a wide range of other
animals. But the typical circumstances are rather diﬀerent, in ways to be
discussed in the next section.
7.3 standardized alarm and food calls
The communicative behaviours surveyed in the previous section (1) were
indexical, often transparent in meaning, as with pointing; (2) involved
quite subtle calculation of the attentive states of other animals; and
(3) involved learning. In this section, by contrast, we will look at a very
226 The Origins of Meaning
diﬀerent evolutionary route that some species have taken, apparently in
the approximate direction of referential meaning as seen in human lan-
guage. This kind of behaviour (1) involves an arbitrary, non-indexical,
relation between the signal and what is meant; (2) involves little or no
calculation of the attentive state of other animals; and (3) is largely
innate.
Animals of several diﬀerent classes within the chordate phylum, and
especially certain species of mammals and birds, have characteristic calls
warning of predators and announcing the discovery of food. But with
these calls, there is seldom such a discernible element of calculation on
the part of the signaller, and it is not so clear that the animals are so
deliberately manipulating the outcome as in the cases of tactical deception
mentioned above.
The best-known example is that of the vervet monkeys, who have dis-
tinct alarm calls for diﬀerent predators: a ‘bark’ to warn of leopard, a
‘cough’ to warn of an eagle, and a ‘chutter’ to warn of a snake (Cheney
and Seyfarth 1990). Vervets make these sounds on noticing a predator of
the relevant type, and they take the appropriate evasive action when they
hear such a sound. They run up a tree on hearing the leopard call, dive
under the bushes on hearing the eagle call, and stand on tiptoe looking at
the ground on hearing the snake call.
In fact, there are many species with a very short inventory of alarm
calls. Digweed et al. (2005) describe two such calls in white-faced capuchin
monkeys: one call for bird predators, and one more general call for a
range of snakes and mammals. Writing of the pale-winged trumpeter,
an Amazonian bird, Seddon et al. (2002, p. 1331) write: ‘On detection
of danger, trumpeters gave two acoustically diﬀerent calls, one for aerial
predators, and another for terrestrial predators or conspeciﬁc intruders.
They also produced distinct calls on detection of large prey items such
as snakes. These (alarm and snake-ﬁnding) call types seemed to evoke
diﬀerent responses by receivers and therefore appeared to be functionally
referent.’ Domestic chickens also have alarm calls diﬀerentiated for aerial
and ground predators (Karakashian et al. 1988; Evans et al. 1993).
These are just a few of many examples. The judgement by Seddon et al.
(2002) that the calls are ‘functionally referent’ touches on a key issue.
Diﬀerent scholars have diﬀerent criteria for deciding whether such calls
are ‘really’ referential. An ingenious experiment by Klaus Zuberbühler
and colleagues sheds light on this question. What does a speciﬁc alarm
call mean to the animal that hears it? Are the calls merely triggers for the
appropriate evasive activity, not in any sense bringing the concepts of the
Going Triadic: Precursors of Reference 227
speciﬁc predators to mind? Or are they at least somewhat more like human
words,10
which evoke concepts that are kept in the mind for some time?
In order to answer this question, Zuberbühler and colleagues (Zuber-
bühler et al. 1999) worked with Diana monkeys of the African forest
who have distinct calls for leopards and eagles. Female monkeys both
give spontaneous alarm calls on sensing a predator and respond to alarm
calls from males by repeating the call. Besides recording the alarm calls,
the researchers also recorded characteristic noises associated with the two
predators, such as the growl of a leopard and an eagle’s shriek. Next, they
played back three diﬀerent kinds of pairs of stimuli, where the stimuli
in each pair were separated by an interval of ﬁve minutes’ silence. On
hearing ﬁrst an eagle alarm call, then (after ﬁve minutes) the shriek of
an eagle, female monkeys showed less sign of alarm (giving fewer repeat
calls) than after hearing, for example, an eagle alarm call followed by the
growl of a leopard. The logic is this. If, on hearing an eagle alarm call you
are prepared to be wary of an eagle in the area, you are less disturbed by
hearing the actual eagle shriek. The eagle shriek merely conﬁrms what the
earlier alarm call told you. But if you hear an eagle alarm and then hear
a leopard growl, the growl is new information, telling you about a kind
of predator that you hadn’t been made aware of by the previous call. The
researchers did of course try out all the necessary control conditions to
consolidate this conclusion. The conclusion is that the alarm calls do not
merely trigger the relevant evasive action, with no representation of the
speciﬁc source of danger being kept in the head: the Diana monkeys, on
hearing a leopard alarm call, keep the idea of a leopard in their minds for
at least ﬁve minutes; and likewise with the eagle alarm call. This behaviour
meets the criteria set by Marler et al. (1992) for calls being ‘functionally
referential’. It seems likely that similar results would be obtained with all
species with small inventories of predator-speciﬁc alarm calls.
In the terms and notation of Part I of this book, the mind of the Diana
monkey alarm-caller who spots an eagle ﬁrst momentarily represents the
bare object of attention as ; then, rapidly recognizing the attended
object as an eagle, the monkey brain forms a representation that we
10
Here and whenever I use the term word in a comparison of animal calls with human
language, I use it in the informal, natural, and familiar sense in which human babies’ ﬁrst
utterances are counted as ‘words’, even though at that holophrastic stage babies don’t form
sentences. Within the framework of a description of the grammar of a human language, the
term word takes on more baggage. There is, of course, no claim that animal calls ﬁt into any
more complex hierarchy of communicative units, such as the word–phrase–clause–sentence
hierarchy used by human languages.
228 The Origins of Meaning
notate11
as eagle . The alarm caller is attending to an eagle. According
to Zuberbühler et al. (1999)’s experiments, a Diana monkey receiver of an
eagle alarm call also brings to her mind the presence of an eagle. She is not
necessarily attending to an actually perceived eagle, so her representation
can be thought of as a (proto-)predicate eagle without an argument,
raw information that something is eagle-ish round here, like a weather
predicate rain. Possibly top-down information to the eﬀect that eagles are
objects (unlike rain) then causes an argument to be supplied, in our terms
placing a box around the predicate. The relevant part of the call-receiver’s
state of mind at the time can also be represented, for our purposes, as
eagle .
The terms refer and referential are not used with optimal precision in
much of the literature in this area. Some linguists (but regrettably not
all) are careful to observe an important distinction between reference and
extension or denotation.12
This parallels the distinction between what a
speaker means on any given occasion, and what expressions in a language
mean in any and all contexts of use. Here is an example: imagine that I
point, rather vaguely, in the direction of two men, and say, ‘That man was
at Jane’s party last night’. You might well ask, ‘Which man?’, in which case
you are asking what I meant when I said ‘That man’; you are asking which
man I was referring to just then. You are not asking what the words that
man mean—you know that perfectly well. A French schoolchild might be
given the exercise of translating the sentence That man was at Jane’s party
last night into French. In this case, nobody in particular used the sentence;
it is just an example taken out of context; but it still means something.
The French child would learn that that man means (is a translation of) cet
homme là. And she would not ask which particular man was meant. Going
back to the reference/denotation distinction, we linguists (when we are
careful) say that a speaker uttering ‘That man’ on a particular occasion is
(probably) referring to a particular person nearby. By contrast the English
phrase that man considered in any and all of its contexts of use denotes
the same class of entities as the French phrase cet homme là (give or take
a few slight diﬀerences in what might count as a man in English and an
homme in French).13
Here in the context of animal calls with very simple
11
Remember all the caveats from Part I about the impossibility (or at least the uncer-
tainty) of perfect translation of animal proto-predicates into human categories.
12
See Lyons (1977, Vol. 1, Sections 7.2 and 7.4).
13
In case you have been wondering about my notational conventions, they are designed
to respect the diﬀerence between utterances and linguistic expressions. Utterances are
Going Triadic: Precursors of Reference 229
semantics I make no distinction between extension and denotation. Thus,
for example, the extension of French homme is (give or take, etc.) the same
as the extension of English man, namely the class of entities to which these
words can be applied. In Part I, I emphasized that private concepts (as
opposed to public words or calls) have extensions. An adult vervet monkey
seems to have some concept, a pattern of activation potentials in its brain,
that is activated on attending to pretty much anything that we would call
a leopard. The extension of this concept is the class of leopards (give or
take a bit).
The relationship between reference and extension/denotation is a dif-
ference between actual and potential. On an actual occasion of use, a
speaker using a deﬁnite noun phrase refers to, i.e. picks out for the beneﬁt
of a hearer, some entity (object or event) in the context. In the abstract,
theoretically discounting context, the same phrase, considered as a part
of the system of the language, denotes all the possible entities that it
could possibly be used to refer to on particular occasions of use. In short,
speakers refer, on particular occasions; expressions in a language denote,
timelessly.
Now applying this careful linguist’s terminology to the topics of this
section and the last, the ﬁnger-pointing human or ape refers to the par-
ticular thing indicated. The vervet’s bark, considered as a type of call
that vervets can make, may be considered to denote the class of leopards.
Equivalently put, that call expresses a concept whose extension is the class
of leopards. Remember that we have seen from Zuberbühler’s experiments
that the Diana monkey’s eagle alarm call probably brings the concept of
an eagle to the mind of a Diana monkey hearer. When a vervet barks,
it does not have the same eﬀect as ﬁnger-pointing towards a particular
predator. The bark is not aptly paraphrased in English as the single
demonstrative word that. A better paraphrase (remembering always that
such paraphrases are rough and ready, and the vervet’s representation of
the world is only partially similar to ours) would be ‘There’s a leopard
spoken on particular occasions, and typically involve the speaker referring to particular
things. Linguistic expressions include words, phrases, and sentences, considered in the
abstract, as when learning a language in some (rather old-fashioned) schools. Utterances
are represented in quotation marks, so you might right now say to yourself ‘Does it matter?’
By contrast, linguistic expressions are written in italics, so, resulting from your question,
you and I could proceed to discuss the various denotations of the English word matter,
sometimes used as a concrete noun, sometimes as an abstract noun, and sometimes as a
verb. See Hurford and Heasley (1983, Unit 2) for some textbook exercises to practise this
distinction.
230 The Origins of Meaning
round here!’ I am prepared to say that vervet, chicken, and Diana monkey
alarm calls and the like do denote, in the sense that they systematically
bring to mind representations of quite speciﬁc categories of predators.
For each alarm-calling species, the researcher’s labelling of the relevant
classes of predators is a matter of ad hoc convenience. In glossing the
vervet’s bark as a ‘leopard call’, we need to keep in mind that a vervet’s
concept of what makes it give the ‘leopard call’ is almost certainly not
exactly coextensive with our concept of a leopard. Indeed, I bet that even
you and I have slightly diﬀerent ideas about what counts as a leopard. Can
you tell a leopard from a jaguar, or a cheetah, or a panther, or a puma?
It’s just thatleopardis the closest human category to the class of stimuli
that prompts a vervet to bark. For other species, we might ﬁnd that some
label like middle-sized quadrupedal ground animal was a
better approximation.
The sending and receiving of alarm calls are not necessarily under
the same degree of genetic control. For vervets, at least, the evidence
about call-production is that very young vervets give the right call for
the right broad class of predator. That is, they do not give the eagle call
on seeing a leopard, or vice versa. To this extent, the link between the
meaning and the form of the call seems to be genetically determined. It
would be interesting, but diﬃcult, to try to condition vervets to give the
opposite calls. While the production of each call seems to be innately tied
to a particular broad class of predator, there is good evidence of ﬁne-
tuning of these broad classes by learning in young vervets. Seyfarth and
Cheney (1982) give a clear diagram showing the progressive reﬁnement,
from infancy, through juvenility to adulthood, of production of the vervet
predator calls.
In marked contrast to adults, infants (monkeys under 1 year of age) and
juveniles (monkeys older than 1 year but not yet adult size) gave alarm calls
to a signiﬁcantly wider variety of species and were signiﬁcantly more likely to
give alarms to nonpredators like warthogs, pigeons and falling leaves that
posed no danger to them. ...Intriguingly, however, although infants gave
alarm calls to a wider variety of species than did adults, infant alarm-calling
behavior was not entirely random. Infants gave leopard alarm calls primarily
to terrestrial mammals, eagle alarms to birds, and snake alarms to snakes or
long thin objects. In other words, from a very early age infants distinguished
between general predator classes (e.g. terrestrial mammal vs. ﬂying bird),
whereas adults distinguished between particular predator species within such
classes (e.g. leopards vs. other terrestrial mammals and martial eagles vs.
other birds). (Seyfarth and Cheney 1982, pp. 244–245)
Going Triadic: Precursors of Reference 231
On the reception side of vervet signals, there is also evidence of ﬁne-
tuning by learning.
[P]layback experiments showed that infant responses were more generalized
than those of adults and that infants were signiﬁcantly more likely than
adults to respond in ways that were potentially maladaptive (Seyfarth and
Cheney 1980). Given that adultlike, alarm-speciﬁc responses develop only
after experience, it is of interest that infants diﬀered from adults in two further
respects. First, infants in playback experiments were signiﬁcantly more likely
than adults to respond in a given way only after ﬁrst looking at another
animal who had already begun that same response; and second, infants near
their mothers were more likely to show adultlike responses than infants whose
mothers had temporarily wandered more than 5 m away.
(Seyfarth and Cheney 1982, pp. 246–247)
Then there is a higher-level question of to what extent the alarm-giving
animal is deliberately giving the signal in anything like the same calcu-
lating kind of way as Machiavellian apes manipulating the attention of
others. It is less likely that this is the case, although there is some evidence
of context-sensitivity in these alarm calls.
The male domestic chicken (Gallus gallus) has been found to modulate the
production of vocal signals in response to the presence or absence of a
suitable audience. We investigated eﬀects on alarm calling by presenting
overhead predator models to cockerels in the presence of a variety of social
companions. The production of aerial predator calls in response to hawk
silhouettes varied with the presence or absence of a member of the same
species. The kinds of audience investigated included the mate, unfamiliar
females, other females and males with which subjects had had prior visual and
auditory contact, and broody hens with and without young. Domestic chicks,
unrelated to the subjects, were almost as eﬀective an audience as conspeciﬁc
adults. A member of another species, however, failed to potentiate alarm-
call production. The subjects gave more alarm calls when they were in the
presence of either a male or a female audience than when they were alone.
(Karakashian et al. 1988, p. 129)
Similarly, vervets are less likely to give their alarm calls when they are
alone than when other vervets, especially oﬀspring or kin, are nearby
(Cheney and Seyfarth 1990). It is tempting to see this as a somewhat
deliberate decision on the part of the caller. He might be thought to
calculate ‘No point in giving the alarm call, as there’s nobody here to
hear it’.
232 The Origins of Meaning
On the other hand, it could be the case that presence or absence
of conspeciﬁcs is part of the complex of stimuli to which an innate
automatic alarm-calling mechanism responds. If experiments can show
that the circumstances under which calls are given are too implausibly
complex to be hardwired into the genes we can surmise that the alarm
caller is under some kind of non-automatic control. Here some leverage
can perhaps be gained by arguments and predictions from theoretical
models of individual and kin selection. For instance, vervet females stay
with their native troop all their lives, and so are in the company of
kin, whereas male vervets migrate out of their native troops, and so
spend their adult lives with less closely related individuals. Abstract Kin
Selection theory, if it were to predict a sex diﬀerence in alarm calling
behaviour, would predict that females, especially those with oﬀspring,
would give alarm calls more often than males. To some extent, this is true,
as Hauser (1996, p. 429) succinctly summarizes: ‘high-ranking females
with kin tended to produce more ﬁrst alarms than high-ranking females
without close kin’. Of course, we don’t know how much information can
be coded into the genes, so at present, we don’t know for sure to what
extent there is any calculating deliberateness in an animal’s alarm-calling
behaviour.
A case cited in favour of animals being in some kind of deliberate
control of their alarm calls is their use for deception. Munn (1986a, 1986b)
reports birds of one species giving ‘false’ alarm calls to distract birds
of another species away from food.14
This can be described in terms of
deliberate calculating behaviour, but, again, there is no very clear way to
resolve the issue of the degree of automaticity or instinctiveness of such
behaviour. Cheney and Seyfarth (1990) describe an episode, now often
retold, of a vervet who, during a skirmish with another troop of vervets,
gave the leopard alarm call, when no leopard was present. The vervets
ran up the trees, abandoning the ﬁght, which the caller’s group might
otherwise have lost. Robert Seyfarth (personal communication) regrets
the frequency and certitude with which this one episode is cited as a
clear example of deliberate tactical deception. Who knows? Until further
evidence comes in, the jury is out.
14
This way of putting it should not be taken to imply that the species is the unit of
natural selection. There are two possibilities. One is that the ‘false’ alarm calls (given
when no predator is around) deceive any listening individual, of whatever species, and the
individual deceiver grabs the food and reaps an individual ﬁtness beneﬁt. A slight variant of
this, still compatible with individual-level selection, is that the false alarm calls have evolved
in one species to be targeted speciﬁcally at members of another species in their environment.
Going Triadic: Precursors of Reference 233
Animals not only have speciﬁc, to some extent innately speciﬁed, alarm
calls for predators; many species also give diﬀerent calls on discovering
diﬀerent broad categories of food. Both rhesus macaques and chim-
panzees signal diﬀerently for high-quality food and low-quality food.
So far, this is like distinguishing between diﬀerent types of predators.
But here there is some additional evidence bearing on the question
of how deliberate and calculating (as opposed to instinctive and auto-
matic) such calls are. Brosnan and de Waal (2002) found that chim-
panzees signalled diﬀerentially depending on the presence of an audi-
ence, and furthermore ‘[a] visible audience increased the rate of food
calling for a large, sharable quantity of food, yet decreased the rate for
a small, non-sharable quantity’ (p. 211). A chimp might calculate that
he would get some social credit without loss of food for announcing
sharable food, but that he would lose food by announcing non-sharable
food.
More persuasive evidence of deliberation and calculation in food call-
ing comes from a study by Hauser (1992). He watched rhesus macaques in
Puerto Rico, and noticed that monkeys who ﬁrst discovered food but did
not announce their discovery were signiﬁcantly more likely to get beaten
up by other monkeys arriving at the scene than monkeys who announced
their discovery. The animal discovering food has a choice: to tell or not
to tell. Not telling brings the potential reward of getting all the food, but
also the potential punishment of getting beaten up if other members of
your troop ﬁnd that you have not told them.
Now, how plausible is it that all the following information is somehow
coded in the rhesus macaque genes: (a) when to signal food discovery, and
(b) which animals found near food to attack and which not, depending
on whether they had announced their ﬁrst discovery of the food? At
least as plausible is a higher-level theory that attributes some degree of
ﬂexible control to the animals. According to such a theory, a rhesus
macaque knows enough to calculate that attacking a troop member who
has not broadcast the discovery of food will deter that animal from
keeping silent about it in the future. And this theory also then requires
a degree of control over food-signalling behaviour, enough to be aﬀected
by punishment. As I say, the jury is still out, and it is too early to
assume ‘monkeys’ lack of a “theory of mind” ’ (Fitch 2005, p. 205—
and see Chapter 9.1, of this book, pp. 307–313). Ability to discern what
others are thinking is many-faceted, no doubt partly genetically given,
but also subject to facilitation or inhibition depending on environmental
conditions.
234 The Origins of Meaning
Alarm calls and food calls seem, on the face of it, to be unselﬁsh,
altruistic, or cooperative. The (apparent) altruism or cooperativeness of
animal calls is a topic to be discussed in the next chapter.
This concern with whether a behaviour is automatic or calcu-
lated/deliberate is one that evolutionary theory shies away from, as Alan
Grafen (personal communication) has pointed out to me. As he puts it,
‘we [biologists] try not to peer into men’s souls’, and he wonders whether
the question arises here just because I am making a link between linguis-
tics and biology. Yes, that is indeed why it arises, and I want also to link
biology with philosophy and psychology, disciplines which (mostly) do
not shy away from such questions. I suspect that biologists’ wariness here
arises, very naturally, because the light around such issues is so dim; there
are plenty more brightly lit questions for biologists to work on. (I confess
to a shyness of my own, about consciousness.)
Finally and parenthetically, here is a puzzle about some of these arbi-
trary signals.
Rhesus macaques not only produce acoustically distinct vocalizations for low
and high quality food items, they also appear to recognize these categories.
In a habituation-discrimination experiment (Hauser, 1996), habituation was
shown to transfer between two high quality food call types (‘warbles’ and
‘harmonic arches’) despite the fact that they are acoustically distinctive; this
suggests that both calls are classiﬁed as falling within the same functional
category. (Egnor et al. 2006, p. 661)
What this means is that animals treated a warble as synonymous with a
harmonic arch. Soon after hearing one, they did not react to the other as
if it conveyed new information. This raises a puzzle: why would rhesus
macaques have two diﬀerent calls for the same meaning? So far, the
question is not answered.
This section has discussed calls with speciﬁc categorial content, unlike
the deictic pointing gestures discussed in the previous section. In the
categorial calls there is a strong, but not complete, element of innateness
to the arbitrary symbolic link between a speciﬁc call and what it conveys.
Apes don’t point in the wild, but readily learn this indexical behaviour
in captivity, when it suits them, typically to human keepers. Both types
of communication, pointing and alarm/food calling, have been, rather
loosely, lumped together as ‘referential’ in the literature. It is important
to note the diﬀerences between them, and to ask how these two types of
communication might somehow combine to produce a more human-like
kind of communication. I will speculate on this in the next section.
Going Triadic: Precursors of Reference 235
7.4 beyond innate symbols and learned deixis
An ordinary speaker of a human language has learned tens of thousands
of arbitrary form–meaning pairs, the vocabulary of the language, going
far beyond the minimal, largely innate, vocabularies of vervets, Diana
monkeys, and chickens. In addition, humans can readily combine these
learned symbols with deictic devices for referring to speciﬁc objects. How
might these unique abilities in humans have evolved? I will suggest a route
in later chapters. First, we’ll see just how much apes can be said to have
accumulated, and what is needed to achieve the breakthrough to group-
wide learned arbitrary Communicative conventions. It will be convenient
here to repeat brieﬂy some of the conclusions of Part I, on ‘Meaning
before Communication’. Here’s an inventory of what we’ve got so far, in
primates (and to some extent in other branches of the animal kingdom).
Proposition-like internal representations of perceived scenes, and some ability to
imagine scenes (for planning and requesting)
– Objects: indices (traces) of up to four discrete objects at a time in a
mentally represented scene
– Proto-predicates: categorizations of whole scenes and of objects within
scenes
Communicative behaviour
– Deliberate and calculating social action on others, to a signiﬁcant degree
under voluntary control
– Monitoring and manipulation of the attention of others
* to oneself and
* to ‘third-person’ objects, by indexical/deictic pointing (in captivity)
* exclusively for selﬁsh ends (e.g. not purely informative)
– Arbitrary symbolic signals for diﬀerent ‘third-person’ categories
* in the wild
. for categories of objects (quality of food and speciﬁc predators)
. present in small numbers
. partly innate, partly learned
. occasionally, in some cases, under voluntary control, and
. apparently for unselﬁsh ends
* in captivity, with language training
. for a range of categories of objects and actions
. all learned, up to a maximum of about 1,000 (Kanzi)
. almost exclusively under voluntary control
. almost exclusively for selﬁsh ends, e.g. requests
236 The Origins of Meaning
Question: which elements in the above summary need to be boosted to
produce a creature that learns vocabulary as fast as a human child, and
engages spontaneously in communicative informative acts (i.e. not only
requests), using one-unit signals? I assume for the purpose of this question
that the ﬁrst steps towards human language by hominids involved single-
unit signals, meaning that the signals were not composed of any smaller
units that could be used communicatively on their own. This assumption
seems natural to me, but is not the only possibility. Other possibilities
will be discussed later. As for the semantic content conveyed by these ﬁrst
signals, let us assume, as also seems natural, that they were of the same
sort as the alarm and food calls discussed in the previous section, with
content like leopard and good-fo od .
Now back to our question: what needs to be boosted in order to give a
group of creatures learning largish inventories (say 50-100 items as a start-
ing stage) and using them freely to give each other useful information? The
big diﬀerence between chimpanzee and bonobo behaviour in the wild,
and in captivity, especially with home-rearing, shows that given a suitable
environment, the learning gap is easily bridged. In the wild, these ani-
mals have no learned arbitrary communicative symbols15
and do not use
indexical pointing. Put them in a protective human environment, where
the dominant animals (humans) are not repressive or competitive for
resources, and moreover directly or indirectly reinforce the use of learned
symbols, and then a qualitative shift in the behavioural phenotype occurs.
They can learn modest vocabularies of symbols, numbering hundreds of
items, and they point. They engage in these behaviours almost exclusively
with humans. An ability to learn arbitrary symbols, and an understanding
of the eﬀects of pointing are within the reach of the chimpanzee genome,
given a suitable environment.
Sure, chimpanzee vocabulary learning is nowhere near as impressive
as a human child’s, but this is certainly a quantitative, not a qualitative
diﬀerence. Let me show you a rough and relevant calculation. For this pur-
pose, we’ll quantify vocabulary-learning ability in terms of the maximum
number of learnable items, and attribute to some remote human ancestor
the ability to learn 30 items, as against the 50,000 (at least) items that
a modern human can learn. Assuming twenty-ﬁve years per generation,
15
Chimpanzees do vary from group to group in their dyadic attention-getting methods,
such as knuckle-knocking or branch-slapping, so presumably these behaviours are learned,
but they are non-arbitrary, as noisy activity naturally attracts attention, and they do not
denote external categories of object or event.
Going Triadic: Precursors of Reference 237
there are 6,000 generations between 150,000 years ago and the present.
An increase of roughly 0.13% (0.0013) per generation in size of learnable
vocabulary would bridge that gap. Progress at ﬁrst would be very slow; it
would take about twenty-ﬁve generations to push the learnable vocabulary
up from 30 to 31. This is obviously an over-simple calculation, but it
puts our remote ancestors within plausible reach of modern capacities.
If this change started further back, say a million years ago, which is cer-
tainly possible, the necessary average increment per generation would be
much less.
The common dismissal of vervet-like calls as irrelevant to the origins
of human symbolic behaviour is too hasty. A strict dichotomy between
innate and learned symbols is wrong. As we have seen above, there are
learned components to the vervet calls in both production and recep-
tion. Under certain conditions, it is possible for speciﬁc aspects of the
genome in a group to drift relatively freely and de-diﬀerentiate, with an
increase in learning taking up the slack caused by a degradation of innate
dispositions. This rather new but very promising idea is propounded by
Deacon (2003), and is applied by Ritchie and Kirby (2007) to the learning
of complex songs by ﬁnches. Learning, even when not artiﬁcially selected
for, can ﬂourish in domesticated situations. I have already mentioned the
possible relevance of self-domestication to the emergence of language in
humans. Wilkins and Wakeﬁeld (1995, p. 179) envisage a transition from
largely innate calls to the beginnings of a learned vocabulary as early as
Homo habilis.
It is not unreasonable to assume that H. habilis too was a noisy animal, that
she had a systematic repertoire of calls. It seems not unreasonable also to
think that a habiline child might have recruited from this call repertoire to
create a linguistic sign....These acoustic signals, simply part of the primate
call system for the adult vocalizer, might have taken the form of linguistic
signs in the mind of the child.
Even when apes can learn arbitrary symbolic connections, they cannot
necessarily always invoke them in use. Call (2006) gives evidence that
Apes (and possibly other animals) are actually quite good at understanding
and reasoning about certain physical properties of their world while at the
same time they are quite bad at associating arbitrary stimuli and responses.
In other words, if two stimuli have a causal connection (as when food inside a
shaken cup makes noises) apes perform better than if stimuli hold an arbitrary
238 The Origins of Meaning
relation (as when an unrelated noise indicates food), even if the contingencies
of reinforcement are the same. (p. 219)
A striking example of real-world reasoning repressing symbolic rea-
soning in chimpanzees is found in experiments by Sarah Boysen and
colleagues (Boysen and Berntson 1995; Boysen et al. 1996). In these
experiments, chimpanzees were trained to interpret ‘Arabic’ symbols for
numbers, and had to perform a counterintuitive task in which selection of
a lower-valued symbol from a presented pair of symbols resulted in being
given a food reward proportional to the higher-valued symbol presented.
For example, given two symbols, ‘2’ and ‘6’, if you choose the 6 you
are given two bits of candy, but if you choose the 2, you are given six
bits of candy. Chimpanzees learned to perform this task maximizing the
food reward; they tended signiﬁcantly to choose the lower-valued symbol.
This shows an ability to think with symbols to advantage. The animals
had all been successfully trained in the meanings of the symbols 1-6, so
they knew that 2 signiﬁes a smaller number than 6. But, interestingly,
when the presented stimuli were not symbols, but actual heaps of candy,
despite constant frustration, the chimpanzees could not overcome their
urge to select the larger pile, which always resulted in their receiving the
smaller, less desirable, pile of candy. Thinking in symbols can be used to
advantage, but in these chimpanzees, the immediate prospect of real food
overrides the symbolic thinking. Here we see the interaction of ability to
use symbols, which chimpanzees are clearly capable of, with motivation to
use symbols, which in chimpanzees can be easily overridden by immediate
drives.
As many ape language-training studies have shown, apes can learn
arbitrary symbols, given the right environment. To reach human levels,
chimpanzee word-learning would need to be qualitatively boosted by
several orders of magnitude. It is quite conceivable that this degree of
improvement in memory and learning was accomplished by human ances-
tors in the 3 or 4 million years since australopithecines. Still today, there
is individual variation among humans in size of vocabulary, signiﬁcantly
correlated with genetic factors. Stromswold (2001) surveyed a large range
of individual variation in language inﬂuenced by genetic factors, including
vocabulary size. In a meta-analysis of one set of twin studies, she con-
cluded that ‘genetic factors accounted for the majority of the variance
in older children’s vocabulary (53%) with shared environmental factors
accounting for only 18% of the variance and nonshared environmental
factors accounting for 29% of the variance’ (p. 669). Indeed, it seems very
Going Triadic: Precursors of Reference 239
plausible that the growth of lexical capacity is a signiﬁcant contributor to
the spectacular tripling in brain size since the australopithecines.16
Such
continuous growth implies a constant selection pressure in one direction.
In the above, the key phrase is ‘given the right environment’. In cap-
tivity, modest latent symbol-learning abilities come to the surface in apes.
But somehow, our ancestors had to give themselves the right social envi-
ronment. The hypothesis is that the social arrangements of our ancestors
changed so that their reciprocal relations with each other became more
like the (one-way) relations between home-reared apes and their human
keepers, whereby the keepers routinely provide aid and succour. In human
societies, members of the same social group routinely provide each other
with aid and succour, and even sometimes help strangers. How this hap-
pened is more of a puzzle than the steady quantitative incrementation
of arbitrary symbol-learning capacity. The social environment we are
looking for is one in which individual animals can reap some advantage
from enhanced symbol-learning capacity and from pointing indexically to
things. I will suggest in the next chapter that the crucial change was one
aﬀecting the interpersonal relationships characteristic of early hominid
communities.
Standardized alarm and food calls are quite situation-speciﬁc, as Jack-
endoﬀ (2002, p. 239) notes, by contrast with children’s one-word utter-
ances. ‘A food call is used when food is discovered (or imminently antic-
ipated) but not to suggest that food be sought. A leopard alarm call
can be used to report the sighting of a leopard, but cannot be used to
ask if anyone has seen a leopard lately’ (p. 239). By contrast, humans,
even children at the one-word stage, use words to convey a range of
diﬀerent situations, so that, for example, Daddy can be used to call Daddy
into the room, to announce Daddy’s arrival outside, to say that a shoe
belongs to (or is somehow associated with) Daddy, and so on. Just as
the relatively harsh exigencies of life in the wild do not bring out the
latent ability to learn symbols and to point, they also severely narrow
the range of interpretations that can usefully by be assigned to signals.
In the wild, chimpanzees do not have the individual dispositions, or the
communal social relations, that promote behaviour in relation to food
other than ﬁnding it, eating it, and occasionally sharing it with those
nearby. Getting food is an almost constant pressure. When bellies are
16
However, the relationship between brain size in individuals and their intellectual
performance is very variable, as studies of microcephalics show. Some small-brained people
have high IQs. For a brief and lively survey, see Skoyles and Sagan (2002, p. 237–240); see
also Sells (1977); Sassaman and Zartler (1982); Rossi et al. (1987); Giedd et al. (1996).
240 The Origins of Meaning
full, the pressure is temporarily oﬀ, but hunger soon comes again, and the
animals are adapted to having a largely one-dimensional relationship with
food, conﬁned to its immediate presence. Likewise, even more strongly,
with predators. It is highly adaptive, in a wild environment, to have a one-
dimensional relationship with predators—you simply escape from them.
With both food and predators, the calls signify an immediately present
situation.
Captive apes, such as Kanzi, can acquire less situation-speciﬁc uses of
symbols, for example with meanings like hurt and visit, showing that
there is not a qualitative gap between bonobo and human abilities, but
rather a diﬀerence in degree. Even captive apes are very preoccupied with
the here and now, but they do have some capacity to communicate about
things which are not so immediate. This capacity is brought out in the
captive environment, where survival pressures are less severe. Humans
have evolved an ability to detach their overt physical responses to sig-
nals from direct action responding to the referents of the signals. We
can discuss the diﬀerence between a leopard’s spots and a tiger’s stripes
without being scared up the nearest tree. It is intriguing to speculate on
the possible change in conditions which enabled this degree of detach-
ment. There could have been a co-evolutionary feedback cycle between an
enhancement of ability to plan for predator-avoidance and food-getting
and a decrease in the immediacy of survival pressures. If you can plan
your hunting a day ahead and be more conﬁdent that you will not go
hungry, your response to the mention of food will not necessarily be to
look for it immediately. This speculation poses the twin questions of how
such a co-evolutionary cycle could have been initiated, and why it has only
aﬀected humans.
I have emphasized in previous sections the important diﬀerences in
animal behaviours that have often all been lumped together under the
heading of ‘referential’. As noted, deictic pointing is referential in a quite
diﬀerent way from the standardized alarm calls of animals such as vervets.
In deictic pointing there is no implicit semantic content: you can point
at anything, be it a leopard, an eagle, a python, a rock, your mother,
your baby, or whatever object you want to draw someone’s attention to.
Deictic pointing is bound by the here and now of the pointing act. But
standardized alarm calls mean what they mean consistently across situa-
tions, and do not necessarily involve drawing the attention of recipients to
the actual object that stimulated them. On hearing a leopard alarm, don’t
waste time gazing at the leopard, even if you have seen it—just get up
a tree!
Going Triadic: Precursors of Reference 241
In human languages, both standardized (i.e. conventional) semantically
contentful signals (in the human case learned, not innate) and deictic
devices dependent on the place and time of the utterance (like the words
here and now) are indispensable, and combine productively. No work-
ing language can manage without deictic devices, nor of course with-
out semantically contentful expressions. An increasing capacity to learn
vocabularies of arbitrary symbols is not enough to give the beginnings
of human-like communication. It is necessary to link the use of these
symbols to speciﬁc contexts of use, by means of deictic devices. So, in
the evolution of language, we need to look for signs of the integration of
deictic devices, such as pointing, with semantically contentful standard-
ized symbols. As Kanzi’s behaviour shows, bonobos in human settings
can readily combine deictic gestures with the use of contentful symbols.
The most common type of meaningful two-element combination used by
Kanzi, listed by Greenﬁeld and Savage-Rumbaugh (1990, p. 557), is one
in which he names a category, such as peanut, with a lexigram, and points
to an object of the relevant sort, for example, a peanut. Combinations of
this type account for 182 of the 723 examples collected. The next most fre-
quent two-element combination (119 occurrences) is also a combination
of a lexigram and a pointing gesture; the example given by Greenﬁeld
and Savage-Rumbaugh (1990) is the lexigram for carry accompanied
by a gesture to the researcher Phil, whom Kanzi wanted to carry him.
So once symbols have been learned and deictic pointing has become
habitual in apes, productive two-unit deictic+symbol combinations come
naturally.
Human babies instinctively point and in their second year readily com-
bine pointing gestures and contentful symbols For example, a baby will
point to a dog and say something interpretable as ‘dog’; or, a bit later
in development, a baby will point to a drawer and say ‘open’. These
examples, strikingly like the Kanzi examples above, are from Goldin-
Meadow and Butcher (2003). There are no quantitative comparisons of
the frequency and ﬂuency of deictic/symbolic combination by apes and
human babies, but the impressionistic and anecdotal evidence indicates
that human babies are more naturally disposed to combining pointing
gestures with symbols than apes. In the ontogeny of language, this dispo-
sition to combine deictic pointing with symbol use is a stepping stone to
the ﬁrst combinatorial use of symbols: two-word utterances. This is shown
convincingly by Goldin-Meadow and Butcher (2003).
For the moment the point is that the diﬀerence between apes and
human infants in deictic/semantic integration is a matter of degree. So
242 The Origins of Meaning
again, given the right environment, the disposition to integrate deixis with
symbols can be hypothesized to have increased gradually by natural selec-
tion during the few million years since the australopithecines, in parallel
with the increase in vocabulary-learning capacity. Indeed, the growth of
vocabulary would provide an increased pressure to integrate symbols with
deictic devices. As an informal example, say the vocabulary has grown
to a stage where there is a conventionalized symbol for running, and a
creature utters this symbol. The recipients are likely to want to know, in
some circumstances, who or what is running, since joint attention to the
same object cannot be expected in all circumstances.
The integration of deixis and symbols is the basis of declarative
information-giving. The growth of symbolic vocabulary, and the increase
in deictic/symbolic integration, can only take oﬀ if the animals concerned
are disposed to give each other information. The quantitative disposi-
tional diﬀerences (admittedly great) between humans and apes in these
areas can be accounted for by gradual change under pressure from social
arrangements conducive to free exchange of information. So it looks as
if a crucial change preceding these increases is to be sought in the social
dispositions of our remote ancestors.
C H A P T E R E I G H T
Why Communicate? Squaring
with Evolutionary Theory
I have suggested a couple of evolutionary changes that led to the ﬁrst
nearly language-like communication: gradual enhancement of the capac-
ity for learning arbitrary symbols, and of the disposition to combine sym-
bols with deictic gestures to convey elementary propositional meanings
such as are expressed in English by This is a peanut. But why should these
evolutionary changes have aﬀected only one species? Why would such
abilities be favoured by natural selection? They are only advantageous in
very unusual (for the animal world) social circumstances, in which there is
a willingness to share information with others, without too much risk of
being taken advantage of. I suggest, then, that a crucial precursor to the
appearance of these proto-linguistic abilities was not in itself a speciﬁcally
linguistic change, but rather a shift in the normal social relationships
between individuals in a group. How plausible are such changes from the
viewpoint of evolutionary theory?
Before we start, here is a story that I think runs parallel to the concerns
of this chapter. Antoine Magnan (1934, p. 8) concluded that, according to
aerodynamical laws of air resistance, insect ﬂight is impossible. The story
somehow got narrowed down to bumblebees, which are big and heavy,
relative to the size of their wings.1
But insects can ﬂy. The problem is
now pretty well cracked, with some very heavy-duty aerodynamic theory
(Ellington et al. 1996; Dickinson et al. 1999). Likewise, it seemed to early
evolutionary theorists that altruism and cooperation shouldn’t exist in
nature; but they do. Read on.
1
McMasters (1989) summarized this scientiﬁc urban myth entertainingly.
244 The Origins of Meaning
8.1 bridges, bullets, monsters, and niches
In trying to answer any question about a unique phenomenon, we are nec-
essarily out on a scientiﬁc limb. Scientiﬁc explanations are the better the
more diﬀerent kinds of data they account for. Newtonian mechanics was
so impressive because it accounted for falling objects, and the movements
of the moon, the planets, and the tides, all in a few simple formulae. Any
general theory of why humans evolved the special ability to learn large
numbers of arbitrary form–meaning pairings raises the question ‘Yes,
but why only humans?’ If there can be a set of principles predicting the
emergence of this phenomenon, we should expect to see it more often in
the natural world. I plan to tell a story of how the ape abilities that we have
so far seen could have combined to give the human ability. This, then, is
a story of a coincidence, a coincidence with far-reaching consequences.
There are no ape data that we can call upon to argue for, or against, the
coincidental productive combination that I will suggest. There cannot be,
because it has only happened once.2
The quality of the story will have
to be judged on how far it stretches what we know about the existing
elements that, somehow, got combined.
It is common to emphasize the enormous gap that exists between
human language and anything that animals are capable of. It is true that
the diﬀerence between our cultural achievements and those of animals, to
the extent that they have any, is extremely impressive. But small changes
can have huge eﬀects. Proverbs and folk wisdom are replete with recog-
nition of small changes having (or preventing) large eﬀects, from the last
straw which breaks the camel’s back, through ‘tipping the balance’, to the
Dutch boy with his ﬁnger in the dyke. Consider an analogy with building
a bridge across a river, or a thousand-mile pipeline across a desert. While
the ends are not connected, the bridge or the pipeline is as good as non-
existent; no traﬃc, or no oil, can ﬂow. As soon as the last connection is
made, however, there is a massive qualitative leap. Traﬃc or oil ﬂows, and
the surrounding ecology is changed for ever. New communities arise, to
trade with and feed oﬀ the new traﬃc. Old roads and old communities
fall into new uses, or disuse. If the bridge is almost built, needing just
the last metre to join the ends, but some external catastrophe, like a war,
intervenes, none of this happens. It is the ﬁnal joining up of the ends, one
small step, that makes the crucial diﬀerence.
2
Well, it may have happened more than once, for example in related (sub-)species such
as Neanderthals, but we don’t know. If the Neanderthals did have something like language,
it didn’t save them from extinction.
Why Communicate? 245
The bridge analogy is not entirely apt because humans plan to build
bridges, and their eﬀects have usually been intended. But there are natural
small events with sweeping, sometimes catastrophic, eﬀects. River capture
is one example. Here gradual erosion culminates in a relatively sudden
breakthrough between river systems, with signiﬁcant shifts in the drainage
arrangements, and hence the ecology, of large land areas. Another exam-
ple is the small temperature change needed to cause the phase transition
from ice to liquid water, essential to life. We have already seen a genetic
example in the case of normally monogamous prairie voles, in whom ‘a
change in the expression of a single gene in the larger context of pre-
existing genetic and neural circuits can profoundly alter social behaviour,
providing a potential molecular mechanism for the rapid evolution of
complex social behaviour’ (Lim et al. 2004, p. 754).
We are looking for a small change that made a big diﬀerence. But
we must beware of some notorious traps in evolutionary theorizing, the
traps of postulating magic bullets or hopeful monsters. These are in fact
two faces of the same problem. The most common kind of magic bullet
in this area is an unspeciﬁed genetic mutation that, somehow, we know
not how, generated the desired phenotype, that, for example, changed
animals with only chimpanzee-like capacities into modern humans with
fully ﬂedged linguistic capacities. In the very early days of generative
linguistics, the 1950s and 1960s, when the structure of DNA had only
recently been discovered, linguists, in common with most people outside
the specialist ﬁeld of genetics, had naive ideas about mutations. The idea
of a ‘macromutation’ that is solely responsible for language is now largely
discredited. Indeed the macromutation idea may always have been a straw
man, because there are few serious proposals for it, and no genetically
well-informed ones. The best known is by Richard Klein, suggesting a
single far-reaching mutation within the last 100,000 years, initiating a
cascade of neurological changes that led to modern human language
Klein (1991, 2003). In a reply to this proposal, Wolpoﬀ et al. (2004) put
the counterargument succinctly:
There is no single silver bullet that will pin down language chronologically
through either genetics or anatomy. ...Language is a highly polygenic trait,
and scores of selective sweeps must have occurred as the trait evolved during
the Pleistocene. No single genetic change was suﬃcient for language, and
it is a mistake to assume that the evolution of this highly complex trait
was primarily saltational (Hauser et al. 2002). Rather, we must understand
language in its fullest cognitive and social senses as involving a cluster of
related features. (Wolpoﬀ et al. 2004, p. 536)
246 The Origins of Meaning
In this connection, the speciﬁcally human version of the FOXP2 gene
(Enard et al. 2002), which appears to have arisen some time during
the last 200,000 years, though relevant to language, is certainly not the
single ‘grammar gene’ responsible for all our complex modern language
capacity. Knight et al. (2000, p. 5) describe Bickerton (1990)’s proposal
for ‘the crucial mutation’ as a macromutation, although that was not
the term used by Bickerton. But the idea certainly had some informal
currency. ‘People at dinner last night kept asking me what Chomsky’s
innate grammar is all about. Where is this language macromutation in the
brain, and all that? ...Wrong question, of course’ (Calvin and Bickerton
2000, p. 1). And Pinker (2003, p. 25) devotes a paragraph to arguing why
the macromutation theory of language evolution is wrong. One biological
objection to macromutations is that most, if not all, mutations are tiny
copying errors, typically aﬀecting a single nucleotide base, and massive
changes to the whole DNA sequence seldom happen all at once. However,
the macromutation idea does not necessarily refer to the actual DNA, but
rather to the phenotype, being understood as a (possibly small) mutation
that made a big change in the phenotype. Here, given our very limited
knowledge of the relationship between genes and phenotype, especially
when it comes to language, the objection to macromutations is not so well
founded, because we do know that very small diﬀerences in the DNA can
sometimes lead to major diﬀerences in the phenotype.
But if we’re talking about big changes in the phenotype, as opposed
to changes in DNA, then the trap labelled ‘hopeful monsters’ opens up.
Evolution does not plan. It works by random experiments. Given an
already well-adapted animal, changing its phenotype in some tiny way
may possibly lead to an improvement in its ﬁtness, its adaptedness to its
environment. Many such changes, of course, are deleterious, and don’t
survive. But tiny changes to the design of a well-adapted animal do stand a
ﬁghting chance of making some improvement. By contrast, changes which
aﬀect a whole lot of things at once are much less likely than tiny changes
to come up with any overall improvement. Anyone who has designed a
complex machine or computer program knows that you need to test each
individual small change before proceeding to the next. If you change a lot
of things at once, almost certainly it won’t work.
It is not possible at this stage in our knowledge completely to avoid
appealing to an evolutionary step not yet fully understood. We must limit
the damage as far as possible by making the step as small as possible.
In terms of the earlier bridge analogy, we must show that the ends of
the bridge waiting to be joined up are really not very far apart—and
Why Communicate? 247
here we have in mind the behavioural phenotype, not the genotype. This
has been the strategy so far in this book: to explore the full range of
cognitive and communicative pre-adaptations in animals, especially those
closely related to humans, that could together have formed a platform
for a unique human small step towards language. The word towards
here is chosen deliberately. We must not expect the eﬀect of the small
step to transform the surrounding ecology instantaneously. Going back
to the bridge metaphor, after the ends were joined up, the surround-
ing ecology was indeed changed, and faster than any changes in the
preceding centuries, but the changes took some time, perhaps many
generations.
Another metaphor, now standard in evolutionary theory, is niche. The
world provides a vast complex range of possible environments, not all
parts or features of them exploited by living organisms. In the early history
of life on Earth, there was light, but it was an unexploited niche. The
appearance of photosynthesis allowed light energy to be exploited by
transforming it into chemical energy, stored in carbohydrates. Photosyn-
thesis opened up a huge range of possibilities for new types of organisms.
The ecological landscape changed. Primitive plants and oxygen accumu-
lated, and the abundance of plants and oxygen constituted a new niche,
unexploited (indeed toxic) until aerobic metabolism evolved. This in turn
led to an avalanche of new lifeforms capable of breathing the oxygen and
feeding oﬀ the plants. Much later, the land was a niche unexploited by
animals. It took some quite special changes to allow the ﬁrst animals
to begin to exploit the terrestrial niche. They were arthropods, already
equipped with exoskeletons, giving the possibility of protection against
dessication and support for their increased bodyweight out of water. No
doubt their ﬁrst steps on land were faltering, but they clung onto their
new environment well enough to breed and give natural selection a whole
new set of adaptive possibilities to explore.
Maynard Smith and Szathmáry (1995, p. 6) identify eight major tran-
sitions in evolution, including the transition from replicating molecules
to populations of molecules in compartments, the transition from RNA
to DNA, the appearance of multicellular organisms, the evolution of
sex, the emergence of cooperation and animal social groups, and ﬁnally
the evolution of human societies with language. Each major transition
involves a new level of information transmission, which is exploited by
selection over new types of information-processing devices. In an abstract
way, each new level of information transmission is a new niche, which gets
colonized by new kinds of entities.
248 The Origins of Meaning
Evolution typically goes faster after a move into a new, previously
unexploited, niche. Some mutations and recombinations that would have
led to dead ends in the old environment have new scope. The new envi-
ronment determines new channels guiding the evolutionary trajectory of
the lineage. For example, changes enabling fast running are of no use to an
animal living in water, but once it moves onto land, that particular kind of
locomotion can be very advantageous. Correspondingly, some of the old
restrictive channels dictated by the previous environment, now left behind,
no longer apply, and the genome of the lineage is free to become more
varied in certain respects. For instance, some of the body-streamlining
adaptations from an aquatic life can be abandoned without disadvantage
on land, and old streamlining adaptations are under less pressure to be
maintained. So entry into a new niche tends to speed evolution in some
directions and in other areas to permit more variation to accumulate,
providing more fodder for later selection.
In introducing the idea of an evolutionary niche, we need to keep
two of the component ideas separate. There is adaptation to a previ-
ously unexploited niche, and there is niche-construction. This latter idea
is relatively new, though well supported (see Laland et al. 2000). In an
older, simpler theory, the environment provides niches, like liquid water,
or light, or land, that can be occupied by the ﬁrst opportunist organism to
evolve the capacity for exploiting what they oﬀer. The niches are always
there in the environment, waiting to be ﬁlled. It is now recognized that
evolving organisms also change their environment. Plants breathing out
oxygen is an example. Before plants, there wasn’t all that free oxygen in
the atmosphere. Beavers building dams is a much more recent example.
This small, but growing, body of theory suggests that niche construction
and ecological inheritance may be of greater evolutionary importance than
generally conceived. In our view, the capacity of populations of organisms
to modify their selective environment through niche construction, and the
fact that many of these changes persist for multiple generations, demand
an adjustment in understanding of the evolutionary dynamic, because they
suggest that a description of evolutionary change relative only to indepen-
dent environments is rather restrictive. In the presence of niche construction,
adaptation ceases to be a one-way process, exclusively a response to envi-
ronmentally imposed problems: instead it becomes a two-way process, with
populations of organisms setting as well as solving problems (Lewontin 1983;
Odling-Smee et al. 1996). Evolution consists of mutual and simultaneous
processes of natural selection and niche construction.
(Laland et al. 2000, p. 135)
Why Communicate? 249
The most spectacular example of niche construction is, of course, humans,
who have transformed their natural environment, adding many artiﬁcial
features. The environment into which a child is born on an impoverished
housing estate in a Western country is full of challenges—traﬃc, balconies
of tower blocks, discarded needles, household chemicals of all sorts, junk
food, school—completely diﬀerent from the challenges which faced the
ﬁrst human babies 150,000 years ago; for these latter, ﬁnding water and
hunting or gathering their own food were the highest priorities, occupying
most of their time. This human example involves the evolution of rich
socially transmitted, learning-mediated cultures, a factor not present in
oxygen-emitting plants or dam-building beavers.
The addition of learning and culture to the picture constitutes a phase
shift in the concept of ‘environment’. The environment is no longer just
the physical potentials and challenges, the food and the pitfalls. Surviving
among foreigners is a totally diﬀerent problem from surviving alone in
the desert or the jungle. The trick is to learn not to be foreign. You
can’t change your skin colour or your eye-shape, but the better you can
learn what these people around you had, in their turn, to learn, the
better your prospects of thriving. Their ancestors gradually created a
culture, partly physically by building special buildings such as temples and
churches, inventing clothing of certain styles, and so on, but the crucial
ingredient for survival in any culture is to learn the signiﬁcance of these
physical artefacts. A church is not just any building; it is linked to a set
of learned behaviours deﬁning it as a church. These behaviours, though
manifest in ﬂesh-and-blood activities of human bodies, are not physically
causally related to survival and reproduction in the same way as picking
berries, running from predators, or fecundating a sexual partner. Cultural
environments can change very fast, much faster than typical physical
environments, so an ability to learn whatever their characteristics are is
the key to survival.
As soon as culturally transmitted, learning-mediated traditions start
to get established, pressure to be able to learn arbitrary associations
increases. Cultural invention is cheap, given some disposition to innov-
ative behaviour and some likelihood of being learned from. With these
two ‘givens’, we can expect a positive feedback loop, pushing the capacity
for learning, and expanding the body of what needs to be learned.
If, as seems likely, the rate of change of cultural niche construction is rapid
relative to independent changes in the environment, biological evolutionary
rates may be accelerated. A number of gene-culture coevolutionary models
250 The Origins of Meaning
have found that, as cultural transmission may homogenise a population’s
behaviour, and because culturally transmitted traits can spread through popu-
lations rapidly compared with genetic variants, culture can generate atypically
strong selection (Feldman and Laland 1996).
(Laland et al. 2000, p. 140)
Beltman et al. (2004) investigated the relation between niche-construction
and the emergence of new species. In their theoretical model they estab-
lished a relationship between learning and speciation: ‘when colonization
without genetic adaptation [i.e. by learning, JRH] is successful, a stronger
mating preference makes genetic divergence easier’ (p. 35).
Is the evolution of learned behaviour a case of adaptation to an inde-
pendently existing niche, or a case of niche-construction? It is usually
both, in varying strengths. A case where the learning adapts to an existing
niche, but only minimally creates a new niche, is the case of the ‘nursing
poke’, where, by ontogenetic ritualization, a ritual develops between an
infant chimpanzee and its mother, allowing the baby to get to the nipple
with little hassle to both parties (as discussed in Chapter 6.5). The inde-
pendently given environment to which the baby’s learning is an adaptation
is the mother chimp’s body shape, with the arm often blocking access to
the nipple. The mother and infant together learn a behaviour that makes
access easier. So the infant’s learning changes his mother’s behaviour, at
ﬁrst uncooperative, later cooperative, when she moves her arm as soon as
he pokes her side. But it stops there. The ritual only involves the mother
and her baby, not the whole troop.3
There is no general eﬀect on the
environment of other members of the population, so no general niche
is constructed to which other animals have to adapt. Knight (2002, p.
148), as mentioned earlier, wrote that such ontogenetic ritualization of
‘conventional signals will be conﬁned within isolated, restricted pock-
ets of social space where suﬃcient trust momentarily prevails’. In the
case of the ‘nursing poke’ the restriction is due not least to the topic
of the communication, namely the mother’s nipple, which only she can
provide.
But note in the nursing-poke case the special cooperative nature of the
mother–infant relationship. This mother–infant-speciﬁc ritualized behav-
iour can only develop within this cooperative framework. If cooperation
3
Things might possibly be diﬀerent where a mother is nursing several young, or where
several mothers nurse each other’s oﬀspring, as with lions. In such cases it is possible that
ontogenetically ritualized behaviours could arise involving a whole family group. There are
no reports of this, that I know of.
Why Communicate? 251
were more general and routine within a group, one would expect fur-
ther learned conventional communicative routines to develop, adapted to
other tasks faced by the group. If such conventional learned communica-
tive behaviour were to develop, even in a very simple form not yet like full
human language, infants newly born into the group would enter a niche
created for them by previous generations, and there would be evolutionary
advantage in their being genetically disposed to learn the conventions of
the group.
In many ﬁelds, fast incremental changes are the product of feedback
mechanisms giving rise to runaway processes. In evolution, sexual selec-
tion (such as is often held responsible for the peacock’s spectacular tail)
and predator–prey arms races are examples of such runaway processes
fuelled by feedback mechanisms. Hurford and Kirby (1999) construct a
model in which there is an ‘arms race’ between speed and proﬁciency
in learning the established communicative code of a community and
the actual size of the code to be learned. As the conventional code is
augmented near its biologically given limits on learnability by occasional
cultural innovations, there is more for the child to learn. This creates
pressure for more eﬃcient learning, which in turn creates spare biological
capacity for the invention and absorption of further cultural innovations.
‘Our model depicts a self-feeding spiral of language size responding to
increases in speed of acquisition, and speed of acquisition in turn respond-
ing to increased language size’ (p. 63). This is an example, in the domain
of language evolution, of feedback between a culturally created environ-
mental niche and the evolving biological ability to adapt to, and augment,
that niche. Something like it may actually have happened. The model is
predicated on an assumption that there is an evolutionary advantage in
being able to produce and interpret communicative signals.
What we are looking for, because this is the human case, is the estab-
lishment, facilitated by a cooperative social environment, of group-wide
learned arbitrary communicative conventions, whose very establishment
constructs a social niche that all new members of the group must adapt
to, by learning. The ‘magic bullet’ and ‘hopeful monster’ jibes warn us to
try to ﬁnd an evolutionary step that is as plausible as possible, minimizing
the gap between the ‘before’ and ‘after’ situations. On the other hand, the
notions of niche, and particularly niche-construction, give cause to believe
that relatively fast and sweeping changes are provided for by evolutionary
theory, provided the conditions can be set out adequately.
252 The Origins of Meaning
8.2 evolutionary theories of altruism and cooperation
8.2.1 Cooperation in Language
In linguistic pragmatics, it is taken for granted that much human
communication is based on a Principle of Cooperation, introduced by
Paul Grice (Grice 1967, 1975), which has been a cornerstone of theories
and courses in pragmatics for three decades. The Gricean Principle of
Cooperation is a convenient place to start, being relatively concrete and
perspicuous, and because cooperation is characteristic of much, if not
all, human use of language. Grice bridged a gap between formal logical
studies and the facts of ordinary conversation. He thereby solved a puzzle
which had often caused enormous unease to students of logic who also
had an interest in the ordinary use of language. The problem is that
we modern humans can readily communicate by saying things that are
patently false, or apparently irrelevant to the matter in hand, or appar-
ently less than ideally informative.
One of Grice’s examples was the ﬂowery, and now old-fashioned, com-
pliment ‘You’re the cream in my coﬀee’. In the days of its currency,
this communicated something like ‘You make my day perfect’. But no
person is literally cream or sits in a coﬀee cup, so the utterance must
always be literally false. But it can be made sense of if the hearer believes
that the speaker, though technically uttering a falsehood, is nevertheless
trying to convey something informative. The hearer, in other words, looks
behind the obvious falsehood for some interpretation related to its literal
meaning, on the assumption that some related truth is being intended.
Take another example. If on a lonely road I tell a stranger that my car
has broken down, and he replies ‘There’s a garage down the road’, I am
normally safe in inferring that the garage is probably open. This is because
I presume that the speaker is trying to help me. If he knew the garage
was closed, it would be unhelpful to tell me about it, but since he did
choose to tell me about it, I can infer, based on the premiss that he is
being cooperative, that the garage is indeed likely to be open. Everyday
conversation is laden with examples like this. Typically, people just don’t
deliberately say unhelpful things to each other. You infer a speaker’s
intended message, couched in an apparently ‘illogical’ utterance, using the
assumed helpfulness of the speaker as a major premiss in the inferential
process.
Grice’s theory has been technically superseded by Relevance The-
ory (Sperber and Wilson 1986). ‘Relevance-theoretic pragmatics diﬀers
from other Gricean approaches.... It does not treat communication as
Why Communicate? 253
necessarily cooperative in Grice’s sense; for communication to be suc-
cessful, the only goal that speaker and hearer need to share is that of
understanding and being understood’ (Wilson 1999, p. 720). Certainly,
not all communication is cooperative. Deliberate deception is the obvi-
ous counterexample. Think also of cross-examination of a defendant in
court, where the defendant may well not wish to cooperate fully with
the barrister. Some politicans and evangelical preachers are adept at
communication, but in what sense could their speeches be said to be
‘cooperating’ with their audience? Nevertheless, even with examples such
as these, and assuming Relevance Theory, there is is still a crucial sense
in which cooperation between speaker and hearer is involved in all truly
communicative exchanges. Even in an act of deliberate deception, the
deceiving speaker at least cooperates to the extent that he couches his mes-
sage in a code which the hearer understands; there is momentary coop-
eration in the very transmission of the message, even if the longer-term
goal of the speaker is not helpful to the hearer. Momentarily, during the
production and parsing of the deceiving utterance, speaker and hearer are
playing the same game together. Deception is ‘the exception that proves
the rule’. Most human conversation is not deliberately deceptive, and
speakers mostly adhere to the Gricean maxim of telling the truth. If lan-
guage were not used most of the time for honest purposes, deception using
language would not be possible. Conﬁdence tricksters exploit the existence
of a generally high level of honesty, on which people come to depend.
Figuring out the intentions of others is not a uniquely human attribute.
As we have seen, apes are very calculating creatures, and can plot the
intentions of other apes, or at least their future actions, from their move-
ments. A hungry chimpanzee seeing another making a move towards food
will accelerate its own movement in that direction, to get the food ﬁrst. A
junior male chimpanzee will copulate behind a rock, to avoid being seen
at it by a dominant male. So a variety of mind-reading is well attested
in apes. Mind-reading is inference about the intentions, or at least the
impending actions, of others. Inference is always partly based on given
premisses brought to the situation, and not evident in the situation itself.
The ape racing another for food makes an assumption (i.e. takes as a
premiss) that apes of his kind typically go for food of that kind. In the
human case, we routinely bring to the interpretation of conversation the
premiss that others are likely to be being helpful, even if it takes a bit of
work in inferring the intended message from what they actually say.
Grice’s Cooperative Principle is usually presented as a basic fact about
human use of language, accounting for much that would otherwise not
254 The Origins of Meaning
make sense. The linguist interested in evolution is bound to ask how
any such general principle of cooperative behaviour came to exist. Why
are humans generally so cooperative with each other in their everyday
conversation? This question plugs into an area that has been of intense
interest to theoretical biologists. From the viewpoint of Darwinian theory,
which emphasizes selection of traits beneﬁting individuals, it is a prima
facie puzzle why any creature should help another, unless the helping is
also to its own beneﬁt, which often it is not.
Besides the term cooperation, the term altruism is often used in this
area of theory, and sometimes the two terms are used interchangeably.
Moore (1984) points out important diﬀerences between altruism and
cooperation (and also between helping and sharing). Altruism is deﬁned
as action which does not beneﬁt the actor, but only some other creature.
Cooperation, as its preﬁx co- indicates, requires joint action, and the
problem here is that other people can’t be relied upon to cooperate. This
contrasts with altruism, which can be done by a single actor without
relying on cooperation by the beneﬁciary. Cooperation is usefully deﬁned
as bringing greater rewards to a pair of cooperators than either could
expect if they acted individually. Limited examples of altruism exist in
nature. Intentional cooperation4
in non-human nature is rare, if it exists
at all. Perhaps surprisingly, humans are among the most altruistic and
cooperative of species. We will have a look at some theories of altruism
and cooperation in the natural world, concentrating ﬁrst on two promi-
nent theories: Kin Selection (and the related idea of Inclusive Fitness)
and Reciprocal Altruism (whose best-known example is the Tit-for-Tat
strategy).5
Kin Selection is a theory of altruism; Reciprocal Altruism,
despite its name, is rather a theory of cooperation.
Both Kin Selection theory and Reciprocal Altruism theory postulate
idealized and simpliﬁed conditions. The great advantage of such idealized
theories is that they can be treated with precise mathematical analysis or,
failing that, by computer simulation. Theorists acknowledge that the real
world is messier than the simple conditions studied by the theory, but
assume that the messiness merely contributes random noise to the clean
mathematical or computational results. Such a theory, if the idealized
4
The qualiﬁcation ‘intentional’ will be explained later.
5
The ﬁrst section, entitled ‘Benselﬁshness’, of Chapter 7 of Dan Dennett’s Freedom
Evolves (Dennett 2003b) is a brilliant dashing gallop through this area, ending up with a
view like my own, but I feel you have to know the work he’s writing about to understand
how he gets there. My own treatment here will be more pedestrian and pedagogical in
ﬂavour.
Why Communicate? 255
conditions succeed in capturing essential properties of the real systems
we are interested in, gives us an insight into how these properties interact
with each other in reality. It is the familiar story of idealization in science,
such as postulating frictionless surfaces, or perfectly rigid rods or a perfect
vacuum, in physics. In physics, such idealizations have been fruitful. The
idealizations involved in theories of Kin Selection and Reciprocal Altru-
ism have also been fruitful.
The purpose of discussing these theories is to explore what explana-
tions there can be for humans’ great willingness to give each other useful
information in language, altruistically and/or cooperatively. Seeing what
these theories can oﬀer presupposes that the use of language is altruistic
and/or cooperative, which it clearly often is. We will see in these theo-
ries a substantial, though still partial, contribution to an explanation of
why humans have evolved a communication system capable of imparting
enormously rich and detailed information. Reciprocal Altruism is usually
discussed within the general framework of Evolutionary Game Theory,
which compares the prospects of alternative behavioural strategies win-
ning or losing in speciﬁed circumstances. A common feature of Kin Selec-
tion and Reciprocal Altruism is that they show how, despite appearances
of pure altruism, the apparent altruists (or their genes) actually beneﬁt
from such behaviour. Other theories, to be discussed in the following
section, focus less on action apparently to the beneﬁt of others, and
explore the ways in which communication beneﬁts the sender, rather than
the recipient, of a message. The central question surrounding all these
theories is cui bono?—who gets any beneﬁt from communication? I will
adopt an eclectic answer. We do not need to suppose that the use of
language must always be either wholly for the beneﬁt of the hearer, or
alternatively wholly for the beneﬁt of the speaker. Certainly, some uses of
language are mostly altruistic, just for the beneﬁt of the hearer, but also in
many cases the speaker gets a lot out of it too. We will start by looking at
theories explaining altruistic and cooperative behaviour.
8.2.2 Kin Selection and Inclusive Fitness
Kin Selection theory (and its relative, Inclusive Fitness theory) accounts
for a disposition to behave altruistically towards kin in proportion to
the closeness of their biological relationship to the behaver. The theory
is emphatically not a theory about ‘the survival of the species’; it is a
theory about the continuation across successive generations of the genetic
dispositions of individuals. In vertebrates, the most selﬂessly altruistic
256 The Origins of Meaning
behaviour is that of a mother to her infants. This is the formative idea
in Kin Selection theory, as propounded by Dawkins (1976) in his version
of Hamilton (1964)’s theory of Inclusive Fitness. If a mother is genetically
disposed to look after her babies, her babies are likely (a) to survive, and
(b) to carry into the next generation the disposition to look after their own
young. We have to express it in terms of likelihood because a mammal
mother gives birth to a baby that has at least a 50% chance of inheriting
some speciﬁc gene of hers. Given some probability that the father also
carries that gene, the probability of the baby having it is greater than 50%.
If a mother with the look-after-your-babies gene has several babies, the
chances are very high that that gene will be present among them. Since she
will (inevitably, barring accidents) look after her babies, then the chances
of this gene propagating into the next generation are high. Thus any such
gene has a built-in nature tending strongly to ensure its own continuing
propagation.
Kin Selection theory generalizes beyond mother–infant relationships
to all biological relationships. The general formula, known as Hamil-
ton’s Rule, predicting the conditions under which altruistic behaviour will
occur is:
BENEFIT × RELATEDNESS > COST.
In other words, it is worth acting altruistically to someone else if the ben-
eﬁt to them, diluted by their degree of genetic closeness to you, outweighs
the cost to you.
Let us say that, statistically in general for any other-directed action,
BENEFIT to the recipient of some action is any increase in the average
number of oﬀspring after the act in question, and that COST to the
actor is any decrease in the average number of oﬀspring after the act.
RELATEDNESS is reckoned in the theory in the following terms6
: a
parent is 50% related to its child; siblings with the same parents are also
50% related to each other; a grandparent is 25% related to its grandchild;
a great-grandparent is 12.5% related to its great-grandchild; a blood uncle
or aunt is 25% related to his or her nephew or niece. This is the commonest
statement of relatedness, consistent with the principle that the relatedness
between a pair of individuals is the probability that by recent common
descent they will share the same allele at a given locus. The technical liter-
ature on Kin Selection theory develops other deﬁnitions of relatedness:
6
In species where all individuals are diploid, bearing two sets of genes, each set inherited
from one parent.
Why Communicate? 257
‘Later, (Hamilton 1970, 1972) redeﬁned relatedness in a more general
way as a statistical measure of genetic similarity regardless of its source.
The coeﬃcient of relatedness (r) was redeﬁned as the regression slope of
recipient genotype on actor genotype’ (Pepper 2000, p. 356). A regression
slope can be either positive or negative, which a probability cannot. Allow-
ing for negative relatedness generalizes the theory to account for spiteful
behaviour as well as altruistic behaviour. Relatedness is not, of course, the
overall percentage of genes shared by two individuals, an interpretation
which would make a human about 98% related to a chimpanzee! For
simplicity, as far as we need to evaluate Kin Selection theory here, it will
be suitable to stick with the percentage characterizations of relatedness
given at the beginning of this paragraph.
Putting this concretely, say the cost to a mother of sacriﬁcing food to
her child during a famine is that, in her weakened state and at her age,
she can expect to have one less further child than if she did not make that
sacriﬁce: so COST here is 1. Say the extra nourishment given to the child
saves its life and makes it likely to have one child of its own, rather than
none: so here BENEFIT is also 1. Now, it is not the case that 1 × 0.5 > 1,
so in these circumstances an altruistic act is not advantageous.
But change the scenario, so that the mother, at her age, cannot expect
to have further children anyway; now the cost to her is zero, and if the
beneﬁt to the child is the same as before, the conditions in the formula are
satisﬁed, and an altruistic sacriﬁce would ensure the continuation of the
gene into the next generation. Or say that the child recipient of the action
might expect to have one or two oﬀspring, expressed as an expectation
of 1.5, while the mother can expect to have at most one further child,
expressed as 0.5. In this case again, Hamilton’s condition for altruism
from mother to child is met, as 1.5 × 0.5 > 0.5.
There is undoubtedly something right about this theory; it does seem to
explain some things about the world. Some instinct tells animals ‘Protect
your own kin’. The strength and manner of realization of this instinct
varies from species to species. It accounts for the care given by parents
to their oﬀspring, most conspicuously a mother’s care for her babies.
McGrew (1975) reports that of 457 instances of banana-giving among
chimpanzees observed at Gombe, 391 (86%) were between mother and
oﬀspring. Female ground squirrels tend to live near to close relatives,
whereas males move out of the kin group, and females give alarm calls
signiﬁcantly more often than males; this is interpreted as natural selec-
tion favouring a disposition speciﬁcally to warn genetic kin of danger
(Sherman 1977).
258 The Origins of Meaning
A male lion courting a lioness with cubs that are not his will often
ruthlessly kill them to gain sexual access to the female (Packer and
Pusey 1983). But male lions do not kill their own cubs. So a cub-killing
behaviour distinguishes between kin and non-kin. This pattern extends to
humans as well. It is more common for stepfathers to kill their stepchild-
ren than it is for them to kill their own children. Daly and Wilson (1982)
studied 508 homicides successfully investigated in Detroit in 1972: ‘con-
sanguineal kin were relatively rarely killed in comparison to spouses and
other non-relatives (chi-square, 1df = 161, p < .0001). ...This analysis
suggests that unrelated cohabitants are at dramatically higher risk than
related cohabitants’ (Daly and Wilson 1982, p. 373).
It is still controversial whether Kin Selection theory works well to
explain the self-sacriﬁcing behaviour of many eusocial7
insects, with hap-
lodiploid genetic systems. A diploid organism has two parallel sets of
chromosomes and passes half of its genes to its oﬀspring, the rest coming
from the other parent; a haploid organism has only one set of chromo-
somes and passes all of its genes to its immediate oﬀspring.8
Eusocial
ants, bees, and wasps have a mixture of haploid and diploid arrangements.
100% of a haploid father’s genes are passed on to his diploid daughters,
which get another 50% of their own genes from their mothers; thus
sisters from the same parents are 75% related to each other. Hamilton
(1964) originally suggested that haplodiploidy and Kin Selection account
for greater self-sacriﬁcial behaviour between sisters in these species. This
suggestion has gained wide currency but is still controversial. Sceptical
or opposing arguments are found in Lin and Michener (1972); Evans
(1977); Wilson (2005); Wilson and Hölldobler (2005). Many haplodiploid
species are not social, and examples of eusociality are found, if rarely,
among diploid species, such as naked mole rats. To the contrary, Foster
et al. (2006) argue that ‘kin selection remains the key explanation for the
evolution of altruism in eusocial insects’ (p. 57). An excellently informa-
tive overview of the evolution of insect social behaviour can be found in
Brockmann (1984).
7
Eusociality is usually deﬁned as satisfying three conditions: (1) animals cooperate in
the rearing of each other’s young—there are no nuclear, or even extended, families within
the colony; (2) the generations overlap, so that there is continuity of the colony; (3) some
individuals do not reproduce, whereas others bear the brunt of the reproductive labour.
Eusociality is most common in hymenoptera (ants, bees, and wasps) but is found in other
phyla too.
8
Which, to complicate matters, could be diploid, through sexual reproduction by two
haploid parents.
Why Communicate? 259
Fortunately, we can steer clear of this controversy, as humans and
their close relatives are diploid. In uniformly diploid animals such as
vertebrates, the reach of Kin Selection theory quickly runs thin as genetic
relatedness decreases.9
The theory predicts a somewhat high distribution
of altruistic acts between parents and children, and between siblings, but
predicts a much sparser distribution of altruism beyond the outskirts
of a nuclear family; the circumstances have to be unusual to predict an
altruistic act towards a second cousin. In bonobo groups of about 125
(McComb and Semple 2005), for example, the relatedness between most
pairs of individuals is 12.5% or less. Bertram (1976) ‘calculated an average
coeﬃcient of relatedness between females in a typical pride as 0.15 (little
more than between cousins) and argued that suckling another female’s
cub should evolve through kin selection if the beneﬁt of the other cub
exceeds seven times the cost to the altruistic female’s own cub’ (Kawecki
1991, p. 496).10
Empirical research conﬁrms the point. Mitani et al. (2000)
studied the formation of alliances in wild chimpanzees, comparing genetic
relatedness between individuals with the frequency of alliance-formation
between the same animals. Contrary to expectations based on the success
of Kin Selection theories, they concluded: ‘[t]hus far, current evidence sug-
gests that genetic relatedness does not structure these within-community,
“second-order” relationships’ (p. 891). The authors make the reservation
that their study relates to within-group alliances. The hostility between
males from diﬀerent groups can still probably be predicted on the basis of
their lesser genetic relatedness.
In humans, an oft-cited example in support of Kin Selection is a study
of Maine lobster ﬁshermen (Palmer 1991). In two rather diﬀerent groups
of ﬁshermen, one small and somewhat isolated, the other larger and in
contact with tourist outsiders, it was found that ﬁshermen of both groups
preferentially gave information on the whereabouts of lobsters to their
close relatives. The eﬀect was stronger in the larger group; in the smaller
group, non-kin individuals were nevertheless familiar and presumably
trustworthy.
In the human case, however, a note of caution is advisable, as the possi-
ble role of learned and culturally transmitted ethical prescriptions against
harming kin must also be considered. Evidence from animals tells us that
9
A lack of migration over time tends to increase the degree of interrelatedness of
individuals in a group, but also, of course, increases inbreeding.
10
Kawecki’s own argument, on the basis of simulations, is that ‘sex-linkage [of an
altruistic gene, as opposed to its autosomal inheritance] seems to enhance the probability
of the evolution of altruism’ (Kawecki 1991, p. 494), but the eﬀect is not large.
260 The Origins of Meaning
any such cultural prescription is not against nature. It seems likely that
cultural prescriptions have built on and strengthened a natural instinct,
and extended the principle to all members of a group, kin or non-kin.
But such prescriptions are passed through the medium of language, and
our present goal is to seek factors existing in pre-linguistic species which
might lead to the altruistic and cooperative exchange of information via
an embryonic proto-linguistic system.
Empirical testing of Hamilton’s Rule is diﬃcult because of the problems
inherent in estimating cost and beneﬁt. The most precise study on humans
in this respect is Bowles and Posel (2005).
Data on remittances sent by South African migrant workers to their rural
households of origin allow an explicit test, to our knowledge the ﬁrst of its
kind for humans. Using estimates of the ﬁtness beneﬁts and costs associated
with the remittance, the genetic relatedness of the migrant to the beneﬁciaries
of the transfer, and their age- and sex-speciﬁc reproductive values, we esti-
mate the level of remittance that maximizes the migrant worker’s inclusive
ﬁtness. ...[T]he eﬀect is modest: less than a third of the observed level of
remittances can be explained by our kin-altruism model.
(Bowles and Posel 2005, p. 380)
To explain the emergence of altruistic communication across a whole
social group, a notion of relatedness other than strict genetic relatedness
could work, if, say, the relatedness of all individuals within a social group
were to be deﬁned as 100% (or close). But this would be counter to
the spirit of Hamilton’s theory, which stands solidly within the Selﬁsh
Gene tradition (Dawkins 1976) of accounting for behaviour in terms
of Darwinian natural selection on the genes of individuals, passed on
by biological replication. If, somehow, the hormonal basis of altruistic
dispositions towards close kin could be ‘beefed up’ by some genetic
change, we would expect more altruism to more distant kin, and perhaps
even to non-kin, but such a possibility is outside Hamilton’s Kin Selection
framework, the impressive ingenuity of which relies solidly on a speciﬁ-
cally genetic vision of relatedness. (See pp. 328–329 for actual data on
such hormonal inﬂuence on trust among non-kin.)
Kin Selection theory is obviously highly idealized, with the basic model
dealing in terms of single ‘kin-altruism-genes’ (of which there may be
many). No behaviour is determined by a single gene. Altruistic acts in
reality form a varied class, with little or no common core of motor
components. What characterizes a class of actions as altruistic relies on
complex knowledge and calculations of the circumstances. Sharing food
Why Communicate? 261
and defending from aggression are both altruistic, but the physical actions
involved are very diﬀerent. If we are talking about a genetic disposition to
altruism in any form (to kin or others), the mechanism has to involve
higher cognitive faculties. It is much easier to see how evolution can
engineer a mother’s instinct to give her baby a nipple, than to see how
evolution could engineer such an abstractly deﬁned class of acts as all
those lumped under the heading ‘altruism’.
Of course, fathers are just as much parents of their oﬀspring as mothers.
Fathers and mothers make equal contributions to the genetic dispositions
of their progeny. But paternity is much more diﬃcult to be certain of than
maternity. A mother knows that the baby she gives birth to is hers. A
father seldom knows for certain whether the baby a female gives birth to is
his. So it is much harder for evolution to engineer an altruistic disposition
to his oﬀspring in a male. A problem facing the implementation of Kin
Selection theory in nature is the diﬃculty of knowing exactly who one’s
relatives are. The kin-identiﬁcation problem is addressed by Axelrod et al.
(2004), who develop a model of the co-evolution of innate traits (called
‘tags’, e.g. distinctive smell) indicative of relatedness. ‘A remarkable result
of the simulation model is that discrimination based on an unreliable
and potentially deceptive indicator of kinship can actually increase the
total amount of cooperation in the population’ (p. 1835). This result
is strongly facilitated by the local spatial organization of the agents in
Axelrod et al. (2004)’s simulation. Individuals interacted very locally, with
neighbours. It is well known that restricting interactions to neighbours or
near-neighbours is a factor that facilitates the emergence of cooperation
(see, for example, Sober 1992; Skyrms 1996; Dessalles 1999; Di Paolo
2000; Grim et al. 2006).
The possibility that a potentially deceptive indicator of kinship can help
to promote cooperation leads the way to mechanisms that extend altruism
beyond kin. It is appropriate at this point to elaborate on the diﬀerence
between Kin Selection theory and its more general relative, Inclusive
Fitness, pioneered by Hamilton (1964). The two ideas are often conﬂated,
because common descent (i.e. kinship) is by far the most signiﬁcant cause
of genetic similarity between individuals. Hamilton’s Inclusive Fitness the-
ory operates with genetic similarity whatever its cause, common ancestry
or otherwise (e.g. mere chance). Under the broad heading of Inclusive Fit-
ness, altruism could in principle evolve between unrelated individuals. But
the problem of identiﬁcation remains. How do you tell whether someone
is genetically similar to you, even if not through heredity? A theoretical
solution to this problem was described by Hamilton (1964), and was later
262 The Origins of Meaning
dubbed the ‘Green Beard Eﬀect’ by Dawkins (1976). Hypothetically, any
phenotypic trait (such as the whimsical green beard) that helps one to
identify genetically similar individuals, correlated with a disposition to
act altruistically towards carriers of that trait, could facilitate the evolu-
tion of altruism. In short, recognition of fellow altruists is distinct from
recognition of kin. Jansen and van Baalen (2006) have shown through
modelling that if the Green Beard Eﬀect is caused by loosely coupled
genes, ‘this allows altruism to persist even in weakly structured popula-
tions and . . . can be expected to be much more prevalent than hitherto
assumed’ (p. 663). Keller and Ross (1998) claim to have found a green
beard gene in the red ant; red ants with a particular gene combination
kill queens that do not have it, and this gene combination is manifested
in a characteristic odour; in this case the green beard is a speciﬁc smell.
If killing certain ants entails sparing some other ants, this may be seen as
altruism towards the lucky spared ones, but it is not a great example of
the evolution of altruism.
In humans, an empirically attested example like a Green Beard Eﬀect is
the greater trust placed in people with similar faces to the truster (DeBru-
ine 2002, 2005). Trust is not exactly altruism, but it presupposes altruism.
If you trust someone, you assume that they will act altruistically towards
you. Facial resemblance can be a cue to genetic relatedness, but facial
resemblance to oneself would have been diﬃcult for our remote ancestors
to judge, before the advent of mirrors. A non-genetic factor can also be
involved, as Buckingham et al. (2006) have shown that faces resembling
those to which one has recently been exposed also tend to be judged as
more trustworthy. This is a foot in the door for theories that account for
altruism in terms of non-genetic relationships between the actors, such as
membership of the same social group—a topic to be discussed just below
and later in this chapter.
Biological kinship clearly plays a role in the apparently altruistic behav-
iour of animals. Human cultures have built cooperative structures on
the model of biological kinship, but signiﬁcantly transforming it. Chris
Knight expresses it well: ‘Humans do not just accept the facts of biology.
Instead, they collectively reconstruct those facts’ (Knight 2006, p. 1). Alan
Barnard (1978), in a seminal article, deﬁnes ‘universal kinship systems’
as those in which every member of the social group is said to be the
kin, in some relationship or other, with everyone else. Such nominal ties
of kinship bring obligations to cooperate. And such universal kinship
systems are widespread, especially among hunter-gatherers, being found
in Australia, Asia, South America, and Africa.
Why Communicate? 263
A classic example of the cultural stretching of biological kinship, from
Australian aboriginal tribal organization, is:
A man is always classed with his brother and a woman with her sister. If I
apply a given term of relationship to a man, I apply the same term to his
brother. Thus I call my father’s brother by the same term that I apply to my
father, and similarly, I call my mother’s sister ‘mother’. The consequential
relationships are followed out. The children of any man I call ‘father’ or of
any woman I call ‘mother’ are my ‘brothers’ and ‘sisters’. The children of any
man I call ‘brother’, if I am a male, call me ‘father’, and I call them ‘son’ and
‘daughter’. (Radcliﬀe-Brown 1931, p. 13)
Another example comes from the Hopi Pueblo Indians:
The position of the mother’s sister is practically identical with that of the
mother. She normally lives in the same household and aids in the training
of her sister’s daughter for adult life. ...They co-operate in all the tasks of
the household, grinding corn together, plastering the house, cooking and the
like. ...Their children are reared together and cared for as their own.
(Eggan 1950, pp. 33, 35, 36)
Treating nephews and nieces like one’s own sons and daughters replaces
a biological relatedness of 25% by a ‘virtual relatedness’11
of 50%. This is
a cultural strategy which seems to recognize the importance of biological
kin, in the vocabulary typically used by the tribal peoples, and artiﬁcially
(culturally) stretches the reach of kin selection. That this cultural stretch
is so widespread testiﬁes to its eﬀectiveness and conﬁrms our view of the
limited reach of purely biological kin selection. This cultural adaptation
provides a link between purely biological selection and cultural group
selection, to be discussed in Section 4 of this chapter (pp. 293–305).
In summary, in our quest for an evolutionary theory that would pro-
vide a setting for the emergence of freely used communication across a
whole group, kin selection may play some role, but it does not take us
far enough. It is implausible that the genetic kin selection mechanism
alone gave pre-humans a suﬃcient basis for establishing a group-wide
set of learned conventional signals (assumed to be mostly altruistic or
at least cooperative). But kin selection may have provided some part of
the genetic impetus leading to cooperative behaviour extending beyond
kin. Some evolutionary tinkering with altruistic dispositions towards kin
could possibly have extended the scope of such dispositions beyond kin.
Fitch (2005, p. 114) sees kin selection as an evolutionary foot in the door,
11
The phrase ‘virtual relatedness’ is from Poulshock (2006).
264 The Origins of Meaning
paving the way for a mechanism of reciprocal altruism (to be discussed in
the next subsection). ‘The logical beneﬁts of reciprocal altruism become
almost unavoidable once a low-cost, unlimited communication system
with the potential for honest information transfer has evolved via kin
selection. ...Crucially, a kin-selected communication system could pave
the way to a reciprocally-altruistic information transfer among non-kin
without any further genetic change, but the converse is not true’ (Fitch
2005, p. 214). This seems right, and the idea will come up again in the
following sections.
8.2.3 Reciprocal Altruism—Tit-for-Tat
We will look next at the other classic theory of cooperative behaviour,
the theory of Reciprocal Altruism, due to Trivers (1971) and substantially
backed up by work by Robert Axelrod (Axelrod and Hamilton 1981;
Axelrod 1984, 1997). This theory takes as its starting point a kind of
situation where people (typically just two) can enjoy great beneﬁt if they
cooperate with each other, but cannot predict whether the partner will
cooperate or not. Furthermore if one party tries to cooperate and it turns
out that the other one doesn’t, the party who tries to cooperate suﬀers a
cost, and the uncooperative party gets a small reward, but not as great a
reward as if he had actually cooperated. A concrete example, originally
due to Rousseau (1755) and made a bit more precise here, would be two
strangers who together could catch a small deer, but could not do it alone,
whereas each alone could manage to catch a hare. Importantly, neither
stranger knows how the other will act. Struggling alone to catch a deer is
a waste of time, and potentially dangerous. The meat from a small deer
is worth the meat from three hares. This example is more natural than
the usual example, called the Prisoner’s Dilemma, but the formal nature
of the dilemma facing both parties is the same: ‘Is it worth my while to
cooperate, given the uncertainty of the other person’s action?’:
Taking the deer/hare example, we can set out the rewards to one party
in all the possible diﬀerent circumstances in a table, like this:
C D
C 1.5 0
D 1 1
Here ‘C’ stands for ‘cooperate’ and ‘D’ stands for ‘defect’, the rows indi-
cate possible choices for the actor, and the columns indicate the possible
Why Communicate? 265
actions of the other person. In other words, if I join with you and you join
with me in hunting a small deer (top left cell), I’ll get half the deer (1.5
units of meat); if I think you’ll help me catch a deer, but you defect (top
right cell), I’ll get nothing; if I don’t join you in deer-hunting, whatever
you do (bottom row), I’ll get a hare (1 unit of meat). At this point you
may object to the numbers—surely they have been set up in a deliberately,
and artiﬁcially, dilemma-posing way?12
Yes, they have, but a proliﬁc academic industry has grown around
this kind of scenario, with interesting results, so it is worth pursuing a
little further. Alternative numbers could deﬁne a diﬀerent ‘mutualistic’
scenario, in which mutual cooperation was always more beneﬁcial to both
parties than if either defected. We’ll come back to mutualism later.
For the moment, let’s stay with the hare/deer example, and the par-
ticular numbers in the diagram above. Now, given that I can’t know in
advance whether you’ll join me in a small deer hunt, what game should
I decide to go after? Assuming that there is a 50-50 chance that you’ll
cooperate, half the time I’ll get nothing if I try deer hunting, and half
the time I’ll get 1.5 worth of meat, so my average reward will be 0.75.
On the same assumption, if I never bother going after deer, but go my
own solitary way after hare, I can be assured of getting 1 unit of meat.
Obviously, rationally, in this idealized setting of uncertain interaction
between strangers, it makes sense for each to ‘defect’ and not to join in
the cooperative activity. Not a promising start for a theory accounting for
cooperation.
But things get much better when more realistic assumptions about
social groups are made. It is true of humans, even, that they don’t coop-
erate as readily with strangers as they do with people in their own social
group. If a complete stranger asks you for money to invest in a money-
making scheme, with a promised split of the proﬁts, what do you do? But
if a person with a known track record of not defecting on others makes
the same oﬀer, you consider it much more seriously. This is the basis of
the development of this theory known as the Iterated Prisoner’s Dilemma.
Here, the participants meet each other repeatedly and are faced with the
same kinds of choice as in the deer/hare example above, but, in various
versions of the game, with diﬀerent quantiﬁcations of the payoﬀs. Players
can remember the behaviour of other individuals from previous episodes.
12
In the ‘classic’ Prisoner’s Dilemma scenario, as discussed in the literature, the numbers
are more artiﬁcial than those I have assigned here to Rousseau’s deer/hare example, with a
requirement that the number in the bottom left cell be greater than that in the bottom right
cell.
266 The Origins of Meaning
In the Iterated Prisoner’s Dilemma scenario, a Tit-for-Tat strategy is
often the most successful. This is a strategy that says: ‘On ﬁrst meeting
someone, cooperate, and remember whether that person cooperates with
you or defects; on subsequent meetings with that person, cooperate if
he cooperated last time, and defect if he defected on you last time.’ The
success of this strategy was strikingly demonstrated in a public computer
tournament devised by Axelrod (1984). Axelrod deﬁned the Iterated Pris-
oner’s Dilemma game, setting the exact payoﬀ parameters for his version,
and invited all and sundry to send in computer programs, in a standard
format, to play against each other, in an all-play-all league setup. Many
diﬀerent strategies were implemented in the entries of these computer
programs, some very simple, and some of Byzantine complexity. The
simplest strategy of all, Tit-for-Tat, as deﬁned above, submitted by Anatol
Rapoport, beat all comers. That is, over all encounters, pitted against
all other strategies, the Tit-for-Tat strategy accumulated more rewards
than all the others. Axelrod publicized this outcome, and challenged the
interested academic community to devise a strategy that could beat Tit-
for-Tat. Now the entrants to the competition had an advantage: they
knew what they were up against. Still, no entry was sent in that could
outcompete Tit-for-Tat.
In the years that followed, of course, various sophisticated versions of
basic Tit-for-Tat have been proposed, some of which perform marginally
better than the basic version deﬁned above. One such variant is O’Riordan
(2000), called ‘Forgiving Tit-for-Tat’. This strategy is essentially like the
basic version, but ‘forgives’ one or two instances of defection by another
person, by still cooperating with them, despite the treacherous behaviour
on the last occasion. The strategy is only forgiving to a certain extent,
and will not indeﬁnitely cooperate with a consistent defector. O’Riordan
writes of this strategy that ‘the above modiﬁcations do not violate the
ﬁrst three recommendations (generally accepted) forwarded by Axelrod—
never defect ﬁrst, be retaliatory, be forgiving’. And O’Riordan shows in
computer simulations how Forgiving Tit-for-Tat outperforms a range of
other realistically chosen strategies.
More generally, ‘recent models have shown that TFT is not always
evolutionarily stable (Nowak and Sigmund 1993): indeed one can always
ﬁnd a mixed strategy capable of invading any pure strategy, including
TFT (Dugatkin 1997)’ (Palameta and Brown 1999, p. F1). The most
obvious argument that Tit-for-Tat is not an evolutionarily stable strategy
is that in a population wholly composed of Tit-for-Tatters, all encoun-
ters will be reciprocally cooperative—there will never be any occasion
Why Communicate? 267
to use the retaliatory ‘defect’ option. Given this constantly cooperative
society, a mutant who follows an ‘always cooperate’ strategy will be
behaviourally indistinguishable from the innate Tit-for-Tatters, and so
will suﬀer no disadvantage. The genetic make-up of the population can
then drift randomly, so that it eventually consists of a mixture of the
mutant unconditional cooperators and the original Tit-for-Tatters. Now
in this society, a new mutant ‘never cooperate’ strategy can arise, and can
prosper at the expense of the unconditional cooperators (while still being
relatiated against by the remaining Tit-for-Tatters). But if by this time the
remaining Tit-for-Tatters are a small proportion of the population, the
mutant ‘never-cooperators’ can take over. (A good survey of a range of
strategies, and their relative success against other strategies, can be found
in Pusey and Packer 1997.)
All this computer simulation is artiﬁcial, of course, but it contains
a serious element of applicability to nature. In an environment where
cooperation for mutual reward is possible, creatures following a Tit-for-
Tat strategy will prosper. Not all environments provide the opportunity.
Rather few species, apes among them, meet the conditions under which
reciprocal altruism works. Solitary creatures, who do not encounter the
same individuals over and over again, will not be able to take advantage
of this pattern of behaviour. So the theory applies particularly to species
living in social groups. But the groups must be quite small for a recip-
rocally altruistic strategy to be maintained (Boyd and Richerson 1988).
Furthermore, animals whose ‘choices’ of behaviour are limited (e.g. zebras
who just eat grass and follow the herd) have little or no scope for either
cooperation or defection. It is only in animals with varied and versatile
behavioural repertoires that such a strategy has a chance of taking oﬀ.
And for the theory to apply in a general way, explaining a large range
of physically diﬀerent types of cooperative behaviour, having in common
only their cooperative character, the animals concerned must have enough
cognitive brainpower to be able to foresee the consequences of cooperative
acts. For example, an animal must be able to calculate the eﬀects of
collaborating with another in a range of activities.
Finally, of course, Reciprocal Altruism theory relies on animals having
a capacity for remembering, in detail, the past behaviour of others, a
variety of episodic memory of the kind discussed earlier, in Chapter 3.
Language itself can short-circuit this requirement. With language, an
individual can know about the previous behaviour of another, not from
its own experience, but at second hand from the reports of others (always
providing these reports are reliable). A communication system enabling
268 The Origins of Meaning
people to gossip about the reciprocal cooperativeness of others eﬀectively
expands the community of potential reciprocal cooperators. One can
adjust one’s behaviour towards another, not only from previous experi-
ence of that person, but on the basis of what one has heard about him.
Enquist and Leimar (1993) modelled a population and showed this result.
Under certain conditions, when coalitions between individuals were not
very brief, and when it took a somewhat long time to ﬁnd any new ‘naive’
(or sucker) individual to take advantage of, freeriders (non-cooperators)
were eliminated even without the exchange of gossipy information about
likely cooperators. But with the addition of gossip to the model, whereby
information was circulated about who had recently cooperated and who
had recently defected in some episode, the space of conditions under
which freeriders were eliminated was expanded.
How far can the theories of Kin Selection and Reciprocal Altruism
help us in explaining the rise of language? We have already noted the
limited reach of Kin Selection—only to the outskirts of the nuclear family.
Now we consider whether there is really any connection at all, as is often
assumed in discussions of language evolution, between the use of language
and altruism or cooperation. In what ways is human conversation any-
thing like cooperative behaviours such as helping another person out of a
diﬃcult situation (say, stuck in mud, or in a ﬁght) or truly collaborative
hunting (as opposed to everyone happening to chase the same prey)? The
basic use of imperative utterances is typically for the beneﬁt of the speaker.
Declarative utterances give information, but they don’t give information
away, because information is inﬁnitely divisible without loss, unlike food.
Giving information can be genuinely altruistic, as when an animal informs
others of discovered food that is only enough to feed one animal. Indeed,
as we have seen with Hauser (1992)’s study of rhesus macaques, there
already seems to be some expectation among these animals that discov-
erers of food ‘should’ announce it. They get punished if they don’t.
Oliphant (1997) makes an interesting attempt to apply Reciprocal
Altruism to the evolution of successful communication. In his simulations,
the communicative codes were innate, rather than learned, but that is not
an important factor here. Consistent with the two choices assumed in
the Prisoner’s Dilemma, Oliphant envisaged two separate kinds of com-
municative act that an individual could perform: a cooperative act and
a ‘retaliatory’ act (corresponding to the ‘Defect’ option). His simulated
organisms had encoded in their genes a single system for interpreting
signals, but two diﬀerent production systems: a cooperative one and a
retaliatory one. The cooperative production system meshed well with the
Why Communicate? 269
reception system, in the sense that it encoded each particular meaning
with the very same signal associated with that meaning by the receptive
system. In other words, in cooperative mode, if you would understand
ovis to mean sheep when someone says it to you, then in your turn, say
ovis when you want to convey the idea of sheep to them. The retaliatory
production system perversely encoded meanings with signals that were
not those associated with them by the given reception system. In other
words, in this perverse mode, if you have sheep in mind and think your
hearer is interested in knowing what you have in mind, say anything but
ovis, even though you yourself would understand ovis to mean sheep.
All these innate systems were subject to random mutation, so that they
could evolve and drift. In running the simulation, the simulated organ-
isms were prompted with random meanings, which they signalled to an
interlocutor, either cooperatively or retaliatorily, depending on how their
interlocutor had treated them on the last encounter, i.e. following a Tit-
for-Tat strategy. Organisms that successfully interpreted the meaning with
which the sender had been prompted gained in ﬁtness, and were more
likely to pass their genes on to the next generation in the simulation.
Oliphant’s ingenious translation of the ‘Defect’ option of the Prisoner’s
Dilemma as ‘retaliatory communication’, i.e. a signal designed not to be
interpreted, may sound inherently contradictory. But we see aspects of
this behaviour in modern life. Some people, especially proverbial politi-
cians, use the strategy ‘If asked a diﬃcult question, give an obfuscating
answer’. In other words, go through the motions of communicating in the
conventionally accepted manner, but in fact make your answer diﬃcult to
interpret clearly. This, in many modern circumstances, is more acceptable
than a stony silence.
In Oliphant’s simulations, modelling Reciprocal Altruism, populations
converge on overall systems achieving high communicative accuracy,
and also having a ‘gene’ prescribing cooperative behaviour on a ﬁrst
encounter. The central reason for this result is that ‘if a mutant that does
not transmit accurately enters the population, they will be responded to
through the use of a less accurate transmission system. This maintains
pressure on accurate transmission, even though it is not directly enforced
by the ﬁtness function’ (Oliphant 1997, p. 45). In other words, a common
communicative code evolves13
in the particular setup of these simulations.
In this setup, individuals are prompted with a given meaning, and obliged
13
Interestingly, Oliphant also shows that such successful communicative codes are not
stable. Drift occurs, so that occasionally the population lapses into a situation in which
communication is less than perfect. In Oliphant’s model, there are clear reasons for this.
270 The Origins of Meaning
to emit some signal to an interlocutor, who gains in ﬁtness when he
manages to interpret the signal as signifying the original meaning. Sure,
given an obligation to say something, and facing a penalty if what you
say cannot be interpreted, you and your descendants will tend to evolve
towards saying things that can be interpreted. What such simulations do
not explain is the origin of the obligation to communicate.
Besides using language to achieve some non-linguistic goal that indi-
viduals could not reach on their own (e.g. ‘Help me move this rock’),
there is a deeper sense in which the normal use of language is cooperative.
Everday conversation contains many instances of cooperation, as the
great success of Grice’s theory testiﬁes. And, as has been noted, the very
act of conversing, even sometimes deceptively, presupposes some kind of
shared cooperative enterprise. We humans use language so eﬀortlessly that
we tend to overlook the fact that an understanding of the other person’s
intentions is involved in the productive planning of an utterance and in its
receptive interpretation. When using language, we are thereby cooperating
in a communicative exchange. An analogy is with structured competitive
games such as tennis or football. Although tennis players try their hardest
to make things diﬃcult for each other, they are nevertheless cooperat-
ing in playing a game of tennis. Genuinely uncooperative behaviour in
relation to tennis would be just not showing up for the game. Oliphant’s
simulated organisms show up for the communication game, and duly
evolve a common conventional code mapping meanings onto signals and
faithfully back again. But what is not yet explained is why they are willing
to participate in the communication game.
It is useful to make a distinction between what I shall call communica-
tive cooperation, and material cooperation. Simply speaking a language
that your interlocutor understands is communicative cooperation. This
is like sticking to the rules while playing tennis. Beyond communicative
cooperation, the issue of material cooperation arises. Honest communi-
cation of information helpful to your interlocutor (e.g. ‘Hey, there’s food
here’) is materially cooperative. Deceptive or obfuscatory communication
in a code known to your interlocutor is not materially cooperative, but it is
communicatively cooperative. This is in line with the dictum of Relevance
Theory, noted earlier: ‘for communication to be successful, the only goal
that speaker and hearer need to share is that of understanding and being
understood’ (Wilson 1999, p. 720).14
14
I wryly suggest that Relevance Theory stands in the same relationship to its predeces-
sor Gricean theory as Einsteinian relativity does to Newtonian physics; the earlier theory
Why Communicate? 271
As soon as any tiny meaning-to-signal code is established, the option
exists, either for genetic evolution or for a learning organism, to give
or not to give a signal from that code, and in a way appropriate or
inappropriate to the occasion. Only the appropriate giving of a signal
beneﬁts the receiver. The other cases, silence, obfuscation, or downright
deception, do not beneﬁt the recipient. A Tit-for-Tat mechanism will
ensure that a recipient who detects that a helpful signal has not been given
when it could have been will retaliate against the non-helpful signaller.15
In this way, if the seed of a set of communicative conventions has been
sown in a group of animals, a Tit-for-Tat strategy will tend to push them
either to communicate more helpfully or to disguise the evidence that they
have anything to communicate. Probably in a close social group the latter
option is harder to bring oﬀ, as the punishment of macaques who do not
announce discovery of food indicates.
Reciprocal Altruism’s Tit-for-Tat strategy, with its ‘cooperate on ﬁrst
encounter’ clause, guarantees that it will reach beyond acquaintances one
has already dealt with. The burden of remembering who cooperated with
you and who didn’t on their last encounter could be alleviated if there
were some fairly reliable observable characteristic of one’s interlocutor
identifying him as likely to be a cooperator. In Axelrod et al. (2004)’s
model, such traits, or ‘tags’, are indicators of genetic relatedness. But if
they were indicators of group membership, a modiﬁcation of the Tit-
for-Tat strategy saying ‘Cooperate with fellow group members, don’t
cooperate with others’ could evolve. In the case of material cooperation
on physical tasks, this would require adequate policing mechanisms to
detect and punish cheating out-groupers masquerading as in-groupers,
beneﬁting from cooperation but not reciprocating. But communication
is a special case. An out-grouper, by learning to use the code of the in-
group, would thereby begin to engage in playing the sort of cooperative
game that is constituted by a conventional communicative code. Recall the
analogy of the tennis players, doing their damnedest to beat each other,
but cooperating nevertheless in both playing by the rules of the game. If
use of the arbitrary communicative code itself were a reliable signal of
group membership and of disposition to cooperate (in this special sense
of communicative cooperation), then a feedback loop is formed. If you
use the code, others will use it to you, and the number of code-using and
is more concrete and easier to apply to everyday examples, while the latter is more all-
embracing and abstract.
15
Scope of negation is deliberately ambiguous here—either giver of a non-helpful signal
or non-signaller.
272 The Origins of Meaning
code-sharing individuals expands to the limits of the social group. This
does not mean that the messages conveyed will necessarily be materially
helpful. Deception and obfuscation between code-users is still possible,
though it is not the norm between conspeciﬁcs of any species. Analyti-
cally, given a shared code, this must be true, as the accepted meaning of
a signal is created only by usage, so the most common use cannot be
deception.
Unlike Kin Selection, there is much less evidence in nature for Recip-
rocal Altruism. Food-sharing among non-kin by chimpanzees is the
most frequently suggested possible example. But in this case, a ‘tolerated
scrounging’ model has been suggested, in which a chimpanzee in control
of a dead monkey only gives bits away to distract possible challengers for
the whole carcass, in other words for purely selﬁsh reasons. If the chimp
gave nothing away, he could expect a ﬁght for the whole carcass; he might
lose the booty and be wounded. If he gives pieces away, the others are kept
reasonably happy, and he gets to eat enough (Wrangham 1975; Moore
1984).
De Waal (1996) rejects the ‘tolerated scrounging’ explanation, and gives
data on nearly 5,000 interactions between chimpanzees in the Yerkes
colony (from de Waal 1989), supporting a Reciprocal Altruism interpre-
tation of food sharing.
Food transfers in the colony were analyzed in all possible directions among
adults. As predicted by the reciprocity hypothesis, the number of transfers in
each direction was related to the number in the opposite direction; that is,
if A shared a lot with B, B generally shared a lot with A, and if A shared
little with C, C also shared little with A. The reciprocity hypothesis was
further supported by the ﬁnding that grooming aﬀected subsequent sharing:
A’s chances for getting food from B improved if A had groomed B earlier that
day. (de Waal 1996, p. 153)
Cotton-top tamarin monkeys have notably egalitarian social arrange-
ments, and in this species Hauser et al. (2003) observed preferential recip-
rocating food-sharing to animals who altruistically also gave food.
Further, but more negatively, on the empirical evidence for Tit-for-Tat
in nature:
Observations consistent with TFT have been reported for various animal
species (Lombardo 1985; Milinski 1987; Dugatkin 1988; Milinski et al. 1990;
Huntingford et al. 1994). Recently, Clements and Stephens (1995) disputed
such claims on the grounds that (1) the payoﬀ structures of the behaviours
in question did not necessarily conform to PD [Prisoner’s Dilemma], and (2)
alternative explanations were not considered. Clements and Stephens (1995)
Why Communicate? 273
recorded the behaviour of blue jays playing carefully controlled PD and
mutualism games, and found stable cooperation only in the latter situation.
Because the payoﬀ structure of mutualism games ensures that cooperation is
the best choice regardless of what your partner/opponent does, the occurrence
of cooperation in such games is simply a by-product of individual animals
maximizing their own immediate rewards without reacting to each other’s
behaviour at all (Roberts, 1997). Thus there is no need to invoke reciprocity
or TFT as a necessary route to cooperation.
(Palameta and Brown 1999, p. F1)
The experimental results of Clements and Stephens (1995), cited above,
are so clear that they are worth describing in more detail. They compared
the behaviour of pairs of blue jays in a typical Prisoner’s Dilemma
(PD) scenario and in a mutualistic scenario. The diﬀerence between the
scenarios is in the numbers chosen for the diﬀerent combinations of
behaviours, as shown in the diagrams below, which may be compared
with the hare/deer payoﬀ table used above (p. 264).
C D
C 3 0
D 5 1
A Prisoner’s Dilemma scenario
C D
C 4 1
D 1 0
A mutualistic scenario
These exact numbers correspond to the numbers of food pellets given
as rewards by Clements and Stephens (1995) to their blue jays in the
following experimental setup. Two blue jays in adjacent cages each had
two keys, a ‘C(ooperate)’ key and a ‘D(efect)’ key. The combined (but not
coordinated) key-pressing actions of the birds resulted in them getting the
numbers of food pellets as shown in the tables above. Blue jays are smart,
and they ﬁgured out very quickly what was to their own individual advan-
tage. In the Prisoner’s Dilemma scenario they quickly learned always to
press the Defect key, and in the mutualistic scenario they quickly learned
to press the Cooperate key. It made no diﬀerence whether one blue jay
could see the other’s action.
Even in mutualistic scenarios, however, animals need a certain degree
of foresight to appreciate the mutual beneﬁts of cooperation. Many ani-
mals seem unable to appreciate such beneﬁts. Cronin et al. (2005) survey
a number of experiments on primates in many of which experimenters
failed to get animals to cooperate in a mutually beneﬁcial task. The more
obvious the connection between action and result (e.g. with transparent
experimental apparatus) the more likely animals are to be induced to
cooperate with each other. And animals with more egalitarian social
274 The Origins of Meaning
arrangements, such as cotton-top tamarins, seem to have an advantage
here too. This makes sense, as in more despotic societies, it can be antic-
ipated that a dominant animal will take all or most of the reward, thus
making it a one-sided, rather than genuinely mutualistic, situation.
Reciprocal Altruism theory, based on a Prisoner’s Dilemma scenario,
arbitrarily chooses the cost and beneﬁt values in the payoﬀ matrix, and
the degree of generosity in the initial altruistic act and the reciprocator’s
response. Clements and Stephens (1995, p. 533) allege that ‘there is no
empirical evidence of nonkin cooperation in a situation, natural or con-
trived, where the payoﬀs are known to conform to a Prisoner’s Dilemma’.
Given their results with blue jays in the mutualistic scenario, we may well
ask how often a Prisoner’s Dilemma scenario is relevant to real-world situ-
ations. If in fact the environment in which animals live often presents them
with mutualistic scenarios, in which it is always immediately advantageous
to cooperate, then it is much less of a puzzle why cooperative behaviour
should exist. And if this is the case, all the theorizing of Reciprocal
Altruism, based on PD-type payoﬀ tables, becomes less relevant to the
problem of cooperation by animals in nature.
There is some possibility of relating cooperation in mutualistic scenar-
ios to Brown and Levinson (1987)’s theory of conversational politeness
and ‘Face’. Cooperation could be related to mutually face-saving behav-
iour, with the potential cost to one’s own face, and defection to mutually
face-threatening behaviour. If the cumulative beneﬁt of saving an inter-
locutor’s face and having one’s own face saved outweighs the beneﬁts of
saving one’s own face by failing to engage, then we could have an example
of linguistic mutualism. Brown and Levinson do not discuss this explicitly,
but their analysis of ‘assessment of payoﬀ and weighting of risk’ (p. 83) is
highly reminiscent of discussions of Prisoner’s Dilemma and mutualistic
setups.16
A diﬃculty with Reciprocal Altruism theory, pointed out by Dessalles
(1999) and Moore (1984), among others, is that the initial emergence
of a genetically determined Tit-for-Tat strategy, which is quite complex
as innate behaviours go, is hard to explain. ‘[C]ooperative altruism can
only occur under very speciﬁc circumstances, in which some highly proﬁ-
table trade is possible between two individuals’ (Dessalles 1999, p.155).
Another idealized (and idealistic) aspect of Reciprocal Altruism theory
is that it paints a picture of equal-status individuals ﬂoating freely in a
16
This connection with Brown and Levinson’s theory of ‘Face’ was suggested to me by
Emma Healey.
Why Communicate? 275
social structure, and sorting their (un)cooperative behaviour towards oth-
ers purely on grounds of previous encounters. The hierarchical political
nature of primate social groups does not come into the picture. Again,
we shall see later that the picture can be fruitfully developed once the
hierarchical status of individuals is taken into account.
A further diﬃculty with Reciprocal Altruism is that it does not work
when times are hard. In dire emergencies, such as famine, the future of
individuals becomes uncertain, so the probability of dealing repeatedly
with the same person diminishes. If you think you won’t see this person
again, the conditions revert to one-oﬀ, non-iterated episodes, in which
it pays each individual to act for short-term advantage, because the
threat of retaliation is minimal. A later theoretical development, Strong
Reciprocity (Gintis 2000), to be discussed in Section 4 of this chapter,
overcomes this limitation.
Finally, the Tit-for-Tat strategy corresponds partly, but not wholly, to
modern human conversational behaviour. There are big cultural diﬀer-
ences in behaviour on ﬁrst meeting a stranger with whom one is destined
to spend some time. On British trains, until recently, strangers seldom,
if ever, spoke. In other cultures, people are more forthcoming, more in
accordance with the ‘Cooperate on ﬁrst encounter’ rule. Generally, if you
receive no reply in a conversation, you also stop speaking—Tit-for-Tat.
(But some people don’t care whether they are getting a reply or not, and
talk on regardless.) Likewise, if a person speaks to you and then stops, it
is conventional to speak back—Tit-for-Tat (subject to various constraints
such as social rank—‘Speak when you’re spoken to’). However, there are
no clear conversational equivalents of the payoﬀ scores in a Prisoner’s
Dilemma scenario.
In summary, there is some positive, but limited, prospect that Recip-
rocal Altruism, under Prisoner’s Dilemma assumptions about cost and
beneﬁt to the players, can help to explain the rise of cooperative human
language. The Prisoner’s Dilemma assumption of this theory may be
unnecessarily biased against the possibility of cooperation in the real
world, as mutualistic scenarios, in which there is no real problem, may be
more common. The theories discussed in this section, Kin Selection and
Reciprocal Altruism, have been taken to be relevant to the emergence of
language because of the widespread assumption that language use is altru-
istic or at least cooperative. In both theories the immediate beneﬁt from a
single act is to the receiver, and the actor bears the immediate cost; hence
the emphasis on altruism in descriptions of these theories. Both theories
are ways of showing that this is apparent altruism or cooperation, and is
276 The Origins of Meaning
actually of beneﬁt later to the signaller or to his genes (and so in some
sense not genuine selﬂess altruism), in full conformity with Darwinian
thought. Kin Selection and Reciprocal Altruism probably had some role
to play in the evolution of language. Geoﬀ Miller (2000b) notes some
pointers that those theories cannot be the whole story. His argument rests
on the fact that in both these theories, the cost falls upon the producer of
a message and the beneﬁt accrues to the receiver.
As long as language is viewed purely in terms of information transmission, it
will be seen as bringing more beneﬁts to the listener than to the speaker. The
speaker already knows the information being conveyed, and learns nothing
new by sharing it, but the listener does gain information by listening. ...This
leads to an interesting prediction: we should be a species of extremely good
listeners and very reluctant talkers.
This does not describe the human species as I know it. ...People compete
to say things. They strive to be heard. ...[T]hose who fail to yield the ﬂoor are
considered selﬁsh, not altruistic.
Nor do the kinship and reciprocity theories predict our anatomy very accu-
rately. ...Our hearing apparatus remains evolutionarily conservative, very
similar to that of other apes, while our speaking apparatus has been dramati-
cally re-engineered. (Miller 2000b, pp. 350–351)
Miller’s argument is only half right. Kin Selection shows why it is in the
interests of an animal’s genes to give alarm calls for close kin, so we
can expect some selection for eﬃcient alarm-calling. Likewise Reciprocal
Altruism puts animals in the roles of both giver and receiver of (apparent)
altruism; if the quality of your giving is poor, then you cannot expect
to receive much in reciprocation, so Reciprocal Altruism predicts some
selection on the quality of the (apparently altruistic) giving. This applies
equally to the giving of goods and the giving of information. And the
prediction that we should be a species of extremely good listeners is not
entirely false. While it is true that our hearing apparatus is more evolu-
tionarily conservative than our speaking apparatus, nevertheless human
hearing, and especially perception, diﬀers signiﬁcantly from other primate
hearing in a number of ways; this will be dealt with in detail in Volume 2
of this work, but some relevant references are Kuhl (1991); Sinnott and
Williamson (1999); Coleman and Ross (2004).
I also do not share Miller’s picture of ‘the human species as [he] know[s]
it’. In some American subcultures (Miller is an American) the use of
language is indeed very competitive. In my university it is well known that
in mixed tutorial groups, Americans tend to talk most, followed closely
Why Communicate? 277
by Southern English types from richer backgrounds, while most Scots
and Japanese tend to keep politely quiet.17
Individual exceptions exist, but
there is some truth in cultural stereotypes. In many societies, ‘showing oﬀ’
and ‘blethering’ are discouraged. In all societies, there is great variation
among individuals in their talkativeness and urge to hold forth. This is
behavioural polymorphism; any theory which predicts a distribution of
diﬀerent behaviours, or diﬀerent degrees of engagement in a particular
behaviour, where this matches the facts, is on the right track. Miller’s
theory, to the contrary, predicts that we all join the competition to be
outstanding talkers.
Miller’s argument, however, draws our attention to the possibility of
more patently selﬁsh motivations for communication. In the next section,
we will look at evolutionary theories that assume no necessary beneﬁt
to the hearer and take communication to be inherently beneﬁcial to the
speaker.
8.3 evolutionary theories of selfish communication
8.3.1 Communication for Display of Form
Language evolved as much to display our ﬁtness as to communicate useful
information. To many language researchers and philosophers, this is a scan-
dalous idea. They regard altruistic communication as the norm, from which
our self-serving fantasies might sometimes deviate. But to biologists, ﬁtness
advertisement is the norm, and language is an exceptional form of it. We are
the only species in the evolutionary history of our planet to have discovered
a system of ﬁtness indicators and sexual ornaments that also happens to
transmit ideas from one head to another. (Miller 2000b, pp. 390–391)
Note the separation of two functions implicit here, an ‘ornamental’ func-
tion indicating ﬁtness to a mate, and another function of transmitting
ideas from one head to another. In this subsection, we shall be concerned
with the ﬁrst, sexual attraction, rather than the second, propositionally
informative, function.
Many animals engage in elaborate or conspicuous courtship displays.
These can be very spectacular, and include both bodily morphology
(e.g. long tail feathers, antlers, outsize claws, and elaborately varied and
patterned colouring) and behaviour (e.g. dancing, turning somersaults,
calling very loudly, and building complicated structures). Mostly these
17
Alan Grafen, a Scot, points out that these same Scots are probably very voluble in
the pub, where mate attraction is higher up the agenda than in my linguistics tutorials.
278 The Origins of Meaning
displays result from innate dispositions. But in many songbirds, there is
also an element of learning of the characteristic courtship song (often
combined with a territorial signal). In discussing the evolution of lan-
guage, and the possible relevance of display as a driving force, we need
to focus on elaborate, rather than merely conspicuous, displays. A display
feature can evolve to be conspicuous, but not elaborate, simply by exag-
geration of one dimension, such as size of genitalia in chimpanzees, size
of one claw in some lobsters, lowness of pitch in frog croaks, loudness of
call in some birds. Human language is extremely ﬁnely articulated; this
ﬁne articulation has not evolved just by saying one thing more loudly, or
on a lower pitch. Displays that are articulated into several parts are more
likely candidates as possible precursors of articulated language.
At this stage in our story of language evolution, still very close to apes,
we are only dealing with the very ﬁrst learned shared symbols, which it is
reasonable to suppose had unitary meanings. There are several diﬀerent
views (‘synthetic’ versus ‘analytic’) on the exact nature of the earliest
learned public signal-to-meaning mappings, and the route from them to
modern syntax. Here it is suﬃcient to say that we are dealing with the
possible advantages for display of multi-parted signals in which the parts
had no separate meanings, only the whole signal having a meaning—
typically something simple, such as ‘Come and be my mate’ or ‘Look how
strong I am’. These two examples illustrate two prominent, and rather
similar, evolutionary theories to account for costly displays. One is Sexual
Selection, started by Darwin (1871) and developed by Fisher (1930). The
other theory is Zahavi’s ‘Handicap Principle’ (Zahavi 1975, 1977).
Sexual selection can work through male–male contests for access to
females. But signals evolved for this purpose tend to be one-dimensional
exaggerations of a particular trait, such as loudness or low pitch, and so
are of less interest as possible precursors of complex articulated language.
In the context of language, the mechanism more frequently mentioned is
female mate choice, on the basis of a particularly attractive signal by the
male.
The central idea of the mate-choice version of Sexual Selection theory
is that males and females co-evolve complementary traits (typically in
the male) and preferences (typically in the female). For example, male
birds who dance more vigorously than others are preferred by females.
This leads to selection of vigorous male dancers. As the average vigour of
dancing by males increases, females still prefer the most vigorous dancers,
leading to further increases in the vigour of male dances. If the females
were always satisﬁed with dancing vigour above some constant threshold,
Why Communicate? 279
this eﬀect would not happen. For sexual selection to happen in this exam-
ple, vigorous male dancing and a female preference for vigorous male
dancers must have a common genetic basis. More generally, one or more
genes exert pleiotropic eﬀects on male courtship behaviour and female
preferences.
There are some empirical reports of such a common genetic basis for a
trait and a preference for it in the other sex. One way of discovering such
a correlation is to use closely related species, in each of which there is a
distinctive male mating call, and a female preference for that call. The key
step is to cross (hybridize) these species and see whether the mating calls
of the hybrid males are preferred by the hybrid females over the calls of
the original species. If the hybridization process produces both a hybrid
male call, distinct from (but usually intermediate between) the calls of
the original species, and a female preference for that hybrid call, a strong
hypothesis is that both the call and the preference for it are under the
control of the same genes. Reports of such facts can be found in Kyriacou
and Hall (1986) for drosophila, in Hoy and Paul (1973) and Hoy et al.
(1977) for crickets, and in Doherty and Gerhardt (1983) for tree frogs.
Simmons (2004) expresses doubt about the conclusions regarding crickets.
The mechanism of sexual selection provides for unusually fast runaway
evolution of genetically determined traits. The runaway mechanism is an
elaboration of Darwin’s original idea by the great statistician and evolu-
tionary biologist, R. A. Fisher (Fisher 1915, 1930).
Several authors have argued that sexual selection played a role in the
evolution of human language. Darwin started it:
When we treat of sexual selection we shall see that primeval man, or rather
some early progenitor of man, probably ﬁrst used his voice in producing true
musical cadences, that is in singing, as do some of the gibbon-apes at the
present day; and we may conclude from a widely-spread analogy, that this
power would have been especially exerted during the courtship of the sexes,—
would have expressed various emotions, such as love, jealousy, triumph,—and
would have served as a challenge to rivals. (Darwin 1871)
Otto Jespersen, a renowned linguist, waxed even more romantic: ‘Lan-
guage was born in the courting days of mankind; the ﬁrst utterances of
speech I fancy to myself like something between the nightly love-lyrics
of puss upon the tiles and the melodious love-songs of the nightingale’
(Jespersen 1922, p. 484).18
18
I have spared the reader the rest of Jespersen’s rosy vision of primitive love-making.
280 The Origins of Meaning
Darwin clearly thought that sexual selection for musical properties in
communication preceded articulate language: ‘it appears probable that
the progenitors of man, either the males or females or both sexes, before
acquiring the power of expressing their mutual love in articulate language,
endeavoured to charm each other with musical notes and rhythm’ (Dar-
win 1871, p. 880).
A prominent modern example of the Sexual Selection theory is Miller
(2000b). The idea is that the use of more fancy language attracted more
mates. Miller appeals to a variety of ways in which pre-modern human
communication might have been sexually attractive, including range of
vocabulary, melodic patterning, syntactic complexity, and informative-
ness. Miller’s discussion of sexual selection in language evolution is not
pitched precisely at any particular stage of evolution. Some of the exam-
ples he gives clearly involve the conveying of elaborate meanings by elab-
orate compositional syntax, using whole complex sentences with individ-
ually meaningful words. ‘There are some hints of sexual ornamentation
in the human voice’s pitch and timbre, the size of our vocabularies, the
complexity of our grammar, and the narrative conventions of storytelling’
(p. 358). Most of this is language at an advanced, even modern stage. And
other examples that Miller gives rely on the propositional informativeness
of the language used. In this case the verbal displayer is demonstrating
how much he knows (that is novel and interesting) as well as how good he
is at expressing it. Unitary signals can convey propositional information,
and compound signals can convey even richer propositional information.
Later below, I will discuss the possible role of informative propositional
content in the very early stage when the ﬁrst ape-like creatures began using
the very ﬁrst learned symbols among themselves. Here, I am just con-
cerned with whether sexual selection played a role in shaping an elaborate
attractive form for the ﬁrst learned symbols used in the wild. In another
paper, Miller (2000a) expresses a lack of interest in such questions:
Identifying an adaptation and its function does not require telling the phy-
logenetic story of how the adaptation ﬁrst arose at a particular time and
place in prehistory ...Adaptationist analysis does not worry very much about
origins, precursors, or stages of evolutionary development. ...It is just not
very important whether music evolved two hundred thousand years ago or
two million years ago, or whether language evolved as a precursor to music.
(Miller 2000a, pp. 336–337)
The best examples in the animal world of semantically unitary but for-
mally complex signals used for sexual display are birdsong and the songs
Why Communicate? 281
of gibbons. Gibbon song is undoubtedly very complex, in its ‘phono-
logical syntax’. Ujhelyi (1998) classiﬁes gibbon songs as having ‘lexical
syntax’, on the basis that the subunits of which they are composed have
separate meanings outside the context of the long call songs, for example
as alarm or contact calls. However, the meanings of the long calls are
not, as far as we know, a compositional function of the meanings of these
subunits. The long calls serve to identify individuals, like signature tunes.
In this sense, a gibbon long call may be likened to a human mantra, or
a certain sort of nursery rhyme, composed of words, where the words
have referential meanings outside the context of the mantra or rhyme, but
within the mantra or rhyme these meanings make no contribution to its
function. A nursery rhyme example would be Hey diddle dumpling, which
is not about diddling or about dumplings, nor really about anything.
According to Mitani and Marler (1989), thirteen basic subunits—‘note
types’—can be distinguished in gibbon long calls. Gibbon long calls also
undoubtedly have a sexual function, as they are often performed in duets
by mated pairs.
Interestingly, one of the most detailed studies of gibbon song
(Geissmann 2000, p. 103) states: ‘Structural and behavioral similarities
suggest that, of all vocalizations produced by non-human primates, loud
calls of Old World monkeys and apes are the most likely candidates for
models of a precursor of human singing and, thus, human music.’ The
article makes no mention of such songs being a precursor of human lan-
guage. But, in line with Darwin and Jespersen, possibly our ape ancestors
also had such complex songs, sexually selected, and used them much
like modern gibbons.19
And the capacity to control such ‘musical’ out-
puts may have given rise to the human capacity to combine prosodic
structure20
with articulated, semantically compositional language which
arose later (as Darwin suggested). There is plenty of evidence suggest-
ing a dissociation in modern humans between control of emotionally
aﬀective prosody (both productive and receptive) and control over artic-
ulated propositional/referential language. For example: ‘Following right
hemisphere lesions, adults’ speech can become copious and inappropri-
ate, with abnormal prosody, and they may be unable to comprehend
metaphor or humour. Their symptoms resemble those of children with
19
Rousseau (1781) also saw the origin of language in song, but had no theory of sexual
selection.
20
In linguistics, prosodic structure is structure associated with correlated facts about the
rhythm, pitch, and amplitude of speech, along with the duration of segments (consonants
and vowels).
282 The Origins of Meaning
semantic-pragmatic language disorder, who use ﬂuent, grammatically
complex language, but with poor sensitivity to the communicative sit-
uation’ (Shields 1991, p. 383). Another relevant early work connecting
prosody, aﬀective content, and the right hemisphere is Ross (1981). It
is also highly relevant that ‘[a]ﬀective prosody is strikingly similar in
humans and other primates, so that human subjects having no previous
experience with monkeys correctly identify the emotional content of their
screams (Linnankoski et al. 1994)’ (Kotchoubey 2005, p. 136). Sexual
selection may have played a role in the evolution of the prosodic, aﬀective,
‘musical’ features of language, onto which the semantically compositional
referential/propositional systems were later grafted. However, the story
cannot be simply that all prosodic aspects of language have a separate
origin from syntactic devices used to convey propositional meaning. The
intonation patterns of languages are intricately interwoven with their
syntactic structure. If early sexual selection for musical properties of calls
had a role to play in the evolution of language, the role was likely to
be in the evolution of a capacity for learning to produce and interpret
intonationally elaborate strings, somewhat voluntarily. Mithen (2005) is
an extensive speculative work arguing, based on both the similarities
and the diﬀerences between music and language, and especially on the
prosodic, aﬀective, musical features of language, that they both evolved
from the same ancient precursor capacities. Like Darwin, Jespersen, and
Miller, Mithen is sympathetic to a sexual selection explanation of these
proto-musical and proto-linguistic capacities. Mithen puts the divergence
between music and language some time after the ﬁrst Homo, around 2
million years ago.
Any connection between human language and birdsong would be a
matter of analogy (independent evolution), rather than homology (com-
mon descent). It is widely asserted that complex birdsong results from
sexual selection, and there is loads of positive evidence. One example,
from a study of European starlings, is:
Males with more complex song acquired mates faster. This relationship
remained signiﬁcant when nest-site preference was statistically controlled,
indicating that female starlings chose males with complex song rather than
those that defended preferred nest sites.
(Mountjoy and Lemon 1996, p. 65)
As another example, Price and Lanyon (2004) used mitochondrial DNA
to reconstruct vocal evolution in the oropendolas and caciques (a group
of oscine birds), and concluded: ‘sexual selection has had important
Why Communicate? 283
inﬂuences on song evolution in these birds, but has targeted diﬀerent
components of song in diﬀerent taxa’ (p. 485). But the data are not
unanimously in favour of sexual selection as the source of articulated
complexity in birdsong. Some complex birdsong involves inserting mim-
icked calls of other species into the song. Reed warblers do this. ‘Male
Warblers incorporated the mimetic sounds into their songs, and each male
mimicked 2-5 species. We found no evidence that females preferred males
with large mimetic repertoires. This suggests that vocal mimicry has not
evolved in response to selection by females in this species’ (Hamao and
Eda-Fujiwara 2004, p. 61).
One common objection to a hypothesis of sexual selection in the evo-
lution of language is that sexual selection commonly results in marked
sexual dimorphism—big diﬀerences between males and females—with
males typically having the more elaborate form or behaviour (Dessalles
1999, p. 157; Fitch 2005, p. 212). In humans, however, there is not much
diﬀerence between the sexes in their command of language, and some tests
show females to be better language users than males. Miller pointedly puts
the relevant question: ‘Why do women have higher verbal ability than
men, if language was sexually selected?’ (2000b, p. 375). And he has a
satisfactory answer. Men do indeed talk more, especially in public, and
women are marginally better at comprehension tasks. This is consistent
with sexual selection. Furthermore, ‘the male-display, female-choice sys-
tem is not an accurate model of human conversation anyway’ (p. 376). At
the time when Miller was writing, other theorists and empirical observers
were beginning to unpick a long-standing assumption of sexual selection
theory: that mate-choice is one-sided.
Mate choice is seldom structured so that one side is entirely passive (Cunning-
ham and Birkhead 1998). Instead, males and females are actively engaged in
mutual choice where each can potentially accept or reject the other.
Mutual mate choice may be much more common than we think, and mate
choice models must be constructed that incorporate this important feature of
sexual selection. (Bergstrom and Real 2000, p. 494)
The model proposed by Bergstrom and Real (2000) shows strategies for
arriving at pairings as satisfactory as possible to individuals of both sexes,
given that there may be popular favourites, and given active choice by
both sexes. No prediction of sexual dimorphism arises from such a model,
but it is not inconsistent with the evolved elaboration of displays. So this
objection to sexual selection as a possible motivating force in the evolution
of complex articulate language is not sustained. One would predict that
284 The Origins of Meaning
mutual mate choice correlates well with monogamy, equal parental care
for the young, and less marked sexual dimorphism. Empirical support
for this comes from a comparison of red-winged and red-shouldered
blackbirds (native to Cuba). Whittingham et al. (1997, p. 279) write:
‘Red-shouldered Blackbirds are socially monogamous and both sexes
feed young with equal frequency, unlike Red-winged Blackbirds. In addi-
tion, Red-shouldered Blackbirds are less sexually dimorphic in size and
plumage than Red-winged Blackbirds (Whittingham et al. 1992; Whit-
tingham et al. 1996).’ Interestingly, red-shouldered blackbirds engage in
duetting song which seems to have a pair-bonding function.
A more telling objection to sexual selection in language evolution21
is the fact that language is acquired in infancy and childhood, before
puberty. Traits associated with sexual attraction come onstream around
puberty, with sexual maturity. To attract sexual partners before one is
able to reproduce would be a waste of eﬀort and potentially harmful.
The most prominent sexually dimorphic feature in human language, the
typical pitch of the voice, comes onstream around puberty, when the male
voice ‘breaks’. This lowering of pitch in the male signal is well known
as a sexually selected feature in a number of animals. But human babies
start showing signs of language learning around one year of age, and
they are probably busy absorbing a lot well before that age, even in the
womb, and language acquisition proceeds rapidly in children during their
pre-pubertal years. In normal children, full command of informal spoken
language is complete at least a few years before puberty (command of
formal and written registers is something else). Clearly the adaptive uses
to which babies and children put language do not include the attraction
of mates.22
To conclude this survey of the likelihood of a role for sexual selection in
the evolution of language, it seems to me that Geoﬀ Miller, its most enthu-
siastic proponent, has not made a fully convincing case, except for the
prosodic aspects of language, following Darwin and Jespersen. Counter to
Miller’s somewhat ﬂorid descriptions of human male–female encounters,
a typical reaction by many academic commentators has been: ‘Being a
good articulate talker never got me any good sex.’ Maybe academic talk
is a peculiarly sexually non-adaptive form of speech, but it is not as
obvious as Miller would have us believe that highly articulate language,
or brute domination of conversation, attracts mates now. However, we
21
Noted by Fitch (2005, p. 212).
22
Although, sadly and dysfunctionally, paedophiles may ﬁnd the language of minors
sexually attractive.
Why Communicate? 285
would do well to remember that the whimsical objection about the lack of
good-sex-generating power of being articulate may hide a deeper misun-
derstanding by some authors about evolutionary arguments, namely, what
matters is the sexual eﬀect that being incipiently articulate may have had
in our ancestors at the key moment when language was emerging. Once
language and its many consequences are in place, the rules of the game
may have completely changed and what once was ‘sexy’ no longer is now.
In the pre-Minimalism days (roughly before Chomsky 1995) when
generative linguists used to emphasize how the language faculty contained
many abstract principles, a frequently talked-about principle was ‘Subja-
cency’. This is an allegedly universal grammatical constraint accounting
for the ungrammaticality of such sentences as *What do you believe the
claim that Mary saw?, as opposed to the very similar but grammatical
What do you believe Mary saw? David Lightfoot memorably remarked:
‘the Subjacency Condition has many virtues, but I am not sure that it
could have increased the chances of having fruitful sex’ (Lightfoot 1991,
p. 69). A sexual selection argument for the evolution of any of the abstract
principles governing articulate language postulated by pre-Minimalism
generative grammar is very implausible. The modern Minimalist pro-
gramme in generative grammar no longer postulates a number of separate
abstract innate grammatical principles. The current Chomskyan position
is that the only possibly distinctive property of the human language fac-
ulty in the narrow sense (i.e. not shared with either animal communication
or with human non-linguistic cognition) is recursion (Hauser et al. 2002).
Was a command of recursion in language sexually attractive? Henry James
wrote in convoluted sentences with much use of recursion; Ernest Hem-
ingway wrote in mainly short sentences with spare use of recursion. Which
writing style is the sexier? Would prehistoric conversation have been sexier
for incorporating a lot of recursive constructions? We don’t know, of
course, but it seems unlikely that sexual selection for attractive composi-
tional complexity of form played a major role in the evolution of syntactic
language. In the very early single-unit phase of hominid communication,
the semantically unitary but phonologically complex signals, like gibbon
songs, may have been sexually selected for their musical qualities. But any
later exaptation of these calls for referential purposes seems unlikely to
have been motivated by sexual selection.
It needs to be noted that such discussion of sexual selection for aspects
of language is overly simple, in the absence of good data. Such discussion
typically assumes, for example, that a particular trait, if it is attractive, will
be permanently and universally attractive. But research on human and
286 The Origins of Meaning
non-human sexual attraction shows that diﬀerent traits are attractive to
diﬀerent females, and, varying independently, at diﬀerent times in their
ovulating cycle. Women in good physical and psychological condition,
as deﬁned by objective measures, tend to prefer male faces deﬁned as
healthy more than other women (Penton-Voak and Perrett 2000; Jones
et al. 2005). And women prefer diﬀerent male faces at diﬀerent phases
of their cycle (Frost 1994; Penton-Voak and Perrett 2000). A similar
result has been obtained for women’s preferences for male voices: ‘We
found women displayed general masculinity preferences for men’s voices;
masculinity preferences were greater in the fertile (late-follicular) phase of
the cycle than the non-fertile (early-follicular and luteal) phase’ (Feinberg
et al. 2006, p. 215). The attractiveness of the female voice is correlated
with other measures of female attractiveness such as body shape and
facial characteristics (Collins and Missing 2003; Hughes et al. 2004;
Feinberg et al. 2005). The diﬀerence between male and female voices
is by far the most salient sexually dimorphic feature of language, and,
to linguists interested in the general structure of language, is of little
interest, probably because of this correlation with non-linguistic features.
What would be interesting would be experimental evidence of variation
in some speciﬁcally linguistic structural feature correlated with variation
in sexual attractiveness. Quite possibly, diﬀerent features of language are
also diﬀerentially attractive, depending on the chooser and her menstrual
state; we just don’t know, apart from the studies of voice preference. The
absence of relevant studies may indicate a general anticipation that there
is nothing to be found by way of sexual selection for interesting structural
features of human language.
Moving on from orthodox Sexual Selection theory, another theory,
Amotz Zahavi’s ‘Handicap Principle’ (Zahavi 1975, 1977; Grafen 1990a,
1990b) claims to explain the evolution of elaborate form in a similar, but
subtly diﬀerent way. Zahavi’s insight is that the sexually selected charac-
teristics are often costly. The peacock’s tail is a great burden, the bower
bird’s building of a ‘bower’ costs it a lot of eﬀort that could be better spent
on getting food, and so on. The fact that a male peacock can manage to
haul his great tail around without getting caught by predators is a mark
of his ﬁtness. It is as if he is saying, ‘Look how strong I am, to manage
with this handicap’. (But if strength were all, why does the tail also get to
be so beautiful?)
The Handicap theory has been applied very widely, by Zahavi and
others, to include behaviour between diﬀerent species. Zahavi and Zahavi
(1997), for example, note that Arabian babbler birds bombard predators
Why Communicate? 287
with loud and protracted alarm calling. The protractedness of the calling
is a point in favour of this claim, as the birds continue calling long after
all in the ﬂock have become aware of the danger. Zahavi’s idea is that the
call signals to a predator ‘I’ve seen you’, and to the conspeciﬁcs ‘Look
how bold I am in carrying on squawking at the predator!’ It is not clear
why the loud calling would deter a predator just because it thinks it has
been seen; equally plausible is the idea that the predator ﬁnds loud noise
distracting, as humans do. But Zahavi has noticed an important aspect
of risky behaviour in some social species: they compete with each other
to take risks. This cannot be explained by Kin Selection or Reciprocal
Altruism. Zahavi’s explanation is:
A babbler who can stand guard longer than its comrades, give them part of
its food, approach a raptor, take the risk of sleeping at the exposed end of the
row—and can also prevent others from doing such deeds—proves daily to its
comrades its superiority over them. By doing so, that individual increases its
prestige. (Zahavi and Zahavi 1997, p. 144)
The Handicap Principle has even been extended to the red colouring of
trees in autumn (Hamilton and Brown 2001). I take this application with
a sceptical pinch of salt.23
But anyway, we are concerned with communication between members
of the same species. We ask whether anything inherent in the elaborate
form of proto-linguistic signals would have conveyed an impression of
above average ﬁtness, because the signaller was bearing an impressive cost
(handicap) in giving these signals. Expressed in this way, the Handicap
idea is only very subtly diﬀerent from orthodox sexual selection. It seems
to attribute an extra step of interpretation to the choosing sex (typically
the female). Rather than just being disposed to simply ﬁnding some male
trait sexually attractive, the male trait is taken as representing the male’s
quality in other respects. Reversing the sexes, it is the diﬀerence between
‘Broad hips are a sign of good childbearing potential, even though they
may hinder mobility’ versus ‘Broad hips turn me on, especially because
they hinder mobility—this person is ﬁt enough to aﬀord dysfunctional
display’. Dessalles (1999, p. 156) gives a fair objection: ‘the handicap
23
A striking instance of the diﬀering basic assumptions of diﬀerent disciplines is seen
in biologist Alan Grafen’s comment on my scepticism here. He writes (personal communi-
cation): ‘Is there a reason for the scepticism about the handicap principle in this context?
I hope it’s not that “trees can’t think”: evolution proceeds by outcomes not mechanisms
and we aren’t concerned with motivations.’ Indeed that was my reason. Alan also wrote,
of an earlier passage, that he ‘felt excluding plants from having concepts was perhaps too
precipitate’. Clearly more interdisciplinary dialogue is needed.
288 The Origins of Meaning
principle does not predict why the birds should behave altruistically. Any
wasteful and conspicuous behavior would be convenient.’
The Handicap Principle is not particularly applicable to the evolution
of elaborately articulated linguistic form, for the same reasons as were
given above relating to orthodox Sexual Selection theory. Elaborate form
of vocal signals is also clearly no way as costly as the peacock’s tail or
the risk-taking of babbler birds.24
In the next section, we will come to a
development of Zahavi’s theory based on valuable informative content,
rather than elaborated form.
The Handicap idea does bring out an important aspect of honest sig-
nalling. Where mutual trust has not (somehow) been established, a signal
that is not costly to its producer is worthless. If I want to convey to you
that I am bigger and stronger than I actually am, I can easily do this
by lowering the pitch of my voice. But if you know how easy it is to
lower one’s pitch, you will not be taken in by this pitch-lowering—you
will not be deceived. So this cheap signal of size and strength fails. To
really convince you, I need to engage in some costly display, to go out
of my way to make you believe I am being honest about my size and
strength. In adversarial situations, only signals that involve an obvious
cost to the sender can be relied upon to be honest. Krebs and Dawkins
(1984), in their seminal paper, summarize: ‘Co-operative communication,
in which manipulator and mind-reader roles share a common interest,
should lead to cost-minimizing, muted signals, while non-cooperative
signalling should give rise to conspicuous, repetitive signals’ (p. 40). This
correlation between common interest and low-cost signals, and between
conﬂicting interests and high-cost signals, has become an item of faith
in the ﬁeld: ‘The main theoretical results in signalling theory predict that
high signal costs will be observed when communication occurs between
individuals with conﬂicting interests’ (Lachmann et al. 2002, p. 13189).
(But see two paragraphs below for Lachmann et al.’s important contribu-
tion, qualifying this widely assumed correlation.)
The conspicuousness or repetitive nature of the best candidates for
sexual selection, such as the peacock’s tail and much birdsong, bring out
the competitive ‘battle of the sexes’ character implicit in the application
of Zahavi’s Handicap Principle to sexual selection. Modern human vocal
24
The large human brain, which enables elaborate human language, is certainly very
costly of energy, but I am not aware of any arguments that big brains in themselves are
sexually attractive. The human brain is not a handicap in the same sense as the peacock’s
tail. It is a working organ and compensates for its high energy cost in ways that need no
explanation from sexual selection or the Handicap Principle.
Why Communicate? 289
signalling is neither as physically eﬀortful as lugging around a heavy
tail nor as repetitive as the chaﬃnch’s incessant day-long declaiming of
his quite complex song in spring and early summer. In this section, we
are considering the possibility of precursors of language being selected
for impressive display of form. The apparent cheapness of modern lan-
guage production might seem to make a Zahavian Handicap explanation
largely irrelevant to language evolution. But this is deceptive, as eﬀort,
other than pure physical eﬀort, is hard to measure. Compare playing a
piano well with repeatedly bashing the keyboard as hard as possible with
your ﬁsts. The bashing takes more physical eﬀort, but the skilful playing
is much harder to do. In favour of a Zahavian explanation, it might
be possible to show (some day) what brain power, rather than muscle
power, is required for ﬁnely and impressively articulated speech. Until
that day, the degree to which language is in any way a handicap remains
undetermined.
Power (1998) notes the cheapness of vocal signalling as a problem
with Dunbar (1996b)’s ‘Gossip as Grooming’ hypothesis: ‘If grooming
among primates operates as a “hard to fake” signal of commitment pre-
cisely because of its costliness, then the relativeness “cheapness” of vocal
grooming undermines its value as an index of commitment’ (p. 113). Kin
Selection avoids this problem, because the signals to close kin beneﬁt
one’s own genes, and the situation is therefore not adversarial. Reciprocal
Altruism also sets up a non-adversarial environment, in which the cost of
a current signal need not be high, because the sender has already invested
some cost to himself, by earlier cooperation.
Lachmann et al. (2002) add a signiﬁcant dimension to the idea of ‘cost
of a signal’. Hitherto, the cost of a signal has been closely identiﬁed with
the eﬀort involved in producing it, or living with it, if it is a permanent
feature of the body. But consider the situation in which a liar is caught and
punished for his lying. Then lying, if detected, is costly to the signaller.
This puts a quite diﬀerent complexion on the prevalent ideas on costly
signalling. If cost can be socially imposed, retrospectively, for a deceptive
signal (or for lack of a signal when one is appropriate) there is no theoret-
ical need for the cost to be apparent in any eﬀort at the time of producing
the signal. As Lachmann et al. (2002) point out, this insight expands the
set of social setups in which cheap signalling may be expected to arise, to
include those in which individuals are to some extent in competition. The
idea only works if there is social imposition of cost of inappropriate code-
users, i.e. policing of the conventions. A closely related idea is expressed
in Boyd and Richerson (1992)’s title, ‘Punishment allows the evolution of
290 The Origins of Meaning
cooperation (or anything else) in sizable groups’. Hauser (1992)’s report
of macaques who punish non-communicators is an example of this setup
being found in nature. We shall see the eﬀectiveness of punishment and
policing in the next two sections.
8.3.2 Communication for Impressively Relevant Content
Display can involve informative content as well as form. The attractive
communicator may be saying ‘Look how much I know!’ Jean-Louis
Dessalles has put forward a hypothesis that the original motivation of
human language was trading relevant information for status (Dessalles
1998, 1999, 2000). In making status or prestige central, Dessalles’ theory is
close to Zahavi’s Handicap Principle. Dessalles’ theory is closely bound to
the political nature of primate social life, in which coalitions and alliances
are frequently formed, and often shift. In the ﬁrst paper, Dessalles rightly
emphasizes a crucial property of information in conversation, namely
relevance. A communicator who conveys obvious or unsurprising infor-
mation, or information that does not relate to the hearer’s interests, is not
valued by hearers:
The rules of the conversational game ...may be formulated in this way:
1. Give information that is directly valuable, by pointing at improbable,
desirable or undesirable states of aﬀairs.
2. Try to lower the informational value of previous utterances.
3. Point out any logical inconsistency in the state of aﬀairs described or
observed.
4. Attribute status to speakers who are successful in the above.
(Dessalles 1998, p. 145)
The ﬁrst injunction here corresponds to Grice’s maxim ‘Be relevant’; so
far, this promotes cooperation. The diﬀerence comes with the second and
third injunctions, which are motivated by a competitive urge to minimize
the status of other contributors to the conversation. This is very reminis-
cent of a real game, such as tennis, where the rules are: (1) Play good shots
likely to be winners, (2) Try to prevent your opponent playing good shots,
(3) Point out any infringement by your opponent of the formal rules of
tennis, such as long or wide shots or foot-faults, (4) Concede the match
to anyone who beats you at (1-3). As in an earlier section, the question
arises: ‘Why engage in this cooperative game-playing activity in the ﬁrst
place? Why not just walk away?’ Dessalles does not express it in these
terms, but he has an answer: this is no game, this is real life. Relevant
Why Communicate? 291
information is crucial to life. And in primate social life, being a member
of an alliance can promote your ﬁtness; being a loner or a member of
a weak coalition is not a good recipe for success in primate life. Put the
two together, and valuable information becomes the coinage with which
entry into a coalition is bought and membership maintained. Dessalles’
proposed solution to the cheater problem of an animal who tries to buy
his way into an alliance by giving low-quality information (false, obvious,
or irrelevant) is the policing mechanism implicit in the second and third
injunctions. Every member of the alliance has to be on the alert for the
quality of the information used by others to keep them in the alliance. If
they fall short, exclude them from the alliance.
Dessalles gives empirically collected examples from conversation con-
ﬁrming his strategies. Some independent support comes from McAndrew
and Milenkovic (2002), who did not refer to Dessalles’ theory. In an
experiment of theirs, ‘83 college students ranked the interest value and
likelihood of spreading gossip about male or female professors, relatives,
friends, acquaintances, or strangers based on 12 diﬀerent gossip scenar-
ios. ...Exploitable information in the form of damaging, negative news
about nonallies and positive news about allies was especially prized and
likely to be passed on. The ﬁndings conﬁrm that gossip can serve as a
strategy of status enhancement and function in the interests of individuals’
(p. 1).
Dessalles’ theory is an advance on earlier content-based theories which
naively assumed that there is no problem to cooperatively oﬀering infor-
mation, and that ‘beneﬁt to the group’ accounts for the emergence of
cooperative behaviour. Uncooperative freeriders can become parasites on
cooperative groups, taking the beneﬁts while they last, and contribut-
ing nothing, until the success of the group is irreparably sapped. A
cooperation-with-policing strategy can ensure the continuing strength of
an alliance, and freeriders can be booted out.
Dessalles contrasts his theory with Reciprocal Altruism, but at one level
the diﬀerence is not so great. Exponents of Reciprocal Altruism theory
typically do not specify the coinage in which altruistic acts are manifested.
They just deal in the very general terms ‘Cooperate’ and ‘Defect’. These
could be anything. If you scratch my back, I’ll give you a bit of food. The
altruism of Reciprocal Altruism is only deferred self-interest, and so it is
with Dessalles’ theory of information traded for status. Dessalles claims
that the diﬀerence is that in his theory the giver of relevant propositional
information beneﬁts immediately by being accorded status, so the act is
genuinely selﬁsh at the moment of its carrying out. But this seems a false
contrast with Reciprocal Altruism. The status accorded to an individual
292 The Origins of Meaning
is stored in the heads of others, and is only cashed out in real terms by
later behaviour on their part. Dessalles’ other objections to Reciprocal
Altruism theory, noted earlier, are that the speciﬁc cost/beneﬁt payoﬀ
conditions typically invoked are not common, and that the high degree
of reciprocation assumed by the Tit-for-Tat strategy is unlikely to have
sprung from nowhere.
Dessalles’ theory makes an important addition to Reciprocal Altruism
theory, in giving it a ‘political’ dimension. Alliances are a feature of
primate, and especially chimpanzee, social life. If you belong to a coalition
with a strong leader, your own inherent individual ﬁtness is boosted. And
the leader and other coalition members also have their own individual
ﬁtnesses boosted, relative to what their ﬁtness would be if they were
not members of any coalition. Dessalles proposes that membership of
a coalition is bought by being able to give highly relevant information
(about the neighbours, about imminent danger, about food). This gift of
information creates a social bond between giver and receiver. As long
as someone is able to provide this rich bounty (relevant information),
he is welcome to join our club. Here it becomes clear why playing the
communicative game, rather than just opting out, is advantageous. If you
don’t join in the scramble to impress potential coalition allies by showing
how much relevant information you can give, and how much better your
info is than others’, you’ll be left on the sidelines. Those playing the game
successfully, and joining strong coalitions, will have more access to mates
and get better food. That’s the idea.
In Dessalles’ theory, relevant honest talk is not cheap. It is easy enough
to utter the requisite sounds or make the appropriate manual gestures.
That is the cheap part. He argues that coming by a store of information in
the ﬁrst place, remembering it, and being able to impart relevant morsels
of it at opportune times, takes some talent. This does not exactly address
the problem that honest signals should be costly to be believable, but the
social bonding, coalition-forming part of the theory makes the typical
communicative situations relatively non-adversarial, so that less cost need
be incurred in the giving of honest information. And Dessalles posits
a strong policing mechanism to identify those whose contributions are
not relevant enough. In fact, given Lachmann et al. (2002)’s insight that
eﬀective policing imposes a retrospective cost on the cheating signaller,
Dessalles need not have bothered so much to argue that signalling is costly
at or before the time of signalling.
Dessalles has identiﬁed a potentially important ‘political’ dimension
in the evolution of informative communication. I have the same kind of
Why Communicate? 293
misgivings about it as I have about Geoﬀ Miller’s arguments for sexual
selection in the evolution of language. Both theories predict a high level
of competition to talk. Undoubtedly, some people are highly competitive
talkers, but each society also has its silent types, who do not seem unduly
penalized by their non-participation in the competition. (We will see in the
next section that this kind of behavioural polymorphism can be explained
by one theory.) Both Miller’s and Dessalles’ theories are rather macho
in this respect, projecting a picture of all (pre-)human social life from
behaviour typical of a subset. It is good to recognize, as Dessalles does,
the competitive, not purely cooperative, aspects of communication.
Dessalles’ theory also assumes that the complex cognitive processes for
public expression of rich propositional relevant information are in place,
as do most of the theories discussed here. There is no evidence at all
that apes signal rich propositional information to each other, let alone
as a way to join a coalition. Perhaps a story can be told of a runaway
evolutionary process fuelled by a feedback mechanism, starting with the
provision of relatively simple relevant information. Alarm calls are, after
all, highly relevant. And it is easy to imagine the value in terms of status
enhancement for an individual capable of transmitting key information
(e.g., location of favourite food) with simple informative pointings. Then
all (all?!) that is needed is a transition from largely innate to predomin-
antly learned signals, plus enhancement of the symbol-learning ability,
followed at some stage by syntactic devices for expressing ever more
complex bits of relevant information. Alternatively, perhaps a mechanism
such as Dessalles proposes came into play at some stage after a system for
conveying rich propositional information had emerged. But this would
not answer the question of how such a system emerged in the ﬁrst place,
and only in our species.
8.4 (cultural) group selection
In Dessalles’ model, individuals join coalitions. These coalitions remain
stable for some time, there is policing to detect non-participation, and
individuals enjoy boosted ﬁtness as a result of belonging to successful
coalitions. There is competition between coalitions and not all coalitions
are equally successful. One may reasonably ask whether this is a model
of group selection, for what is the diﬀerence between a coalition and a
group? Dessalles distances himself from theories of group selection. To
explore the issue further, we need a brief survey of what group selection is.
294 The Origins of Meaning
The issue is sometimes conceived as the question of what the true unit
of natural selection is, which presupposes that there is a single level at
which selection works. After Darwin, who knew nothing about genes,
it was naturally assumed that the unit of selection was the individual
organism. Darwin concentrated on the phenotypic traits of organisms,
discussing their adaptedness, and assuming some unknown mechanism of
relatively faithful replication, with minor changes—descent with modiﬁ-
cation. When the scientiﬁc world woke up to Mendel’s discovery of genetic
factors, genes, a new candidate for the basic unit of selection became
available. Dawkins (1976) is the most prominent popular exponent of
the view that the basic replicators are genes, and that organisms such as
animals and plants are their ‘survival vehicles’. So far we appear to have
two proposed units of selection, the gene (Dawkins) and the individual
(post-Darwin, pre-Mendel), existing at diﬀerent levels. But we need to be
careful not to confuse two distinct ideas: those of replicator and unit of
selection.
Individual selection and gene selection do not logically preclude each
other, and there is also a growing number of exponents of multi-level
selection (e.g. Sober 1993; Wilson and Sober 1994; McAndrew 2002).
Multi-level selection theorists typically advocate, following Dawkins’
terminology, that the individual organism is a ‘vehicle for selection’.
Dawkins, of course, implied as much. Sexually reproducing individuals
do not exactly replicate themselves. No two humans, apart from identical
twins, are genetically identical. This is what makes identiﬁcation by DNA
so reliable.25
So the genes, sequences of DNA, are deﬁnitely the units
of biological replication, and individual organisms are not basic units
of replication. But the genes need the individual organisms to survive.26
There are cases where speciﬁc genes within an individual propagate them-
selves successfully, increasing their proportion within the total of the
individual’s genes, but not migrating out to other individuals. The most
obvious case is cancer. Cancer is a successful spread of genes only in the
limited sense that cancerous cells invade an individual’s body. In most,
if not all, such cases, this seriously decreases the ﬁtness of the individual
carrier. But the most typical vehicle, or unit, of selection, is the individual
organism, working as a self-contained entity composed of myriads of phe-
notypic traits working as a team. It is the teamwork within the separate
25
Only when proper precautions against contamination of samples are taken, of course.
26
Read this sentence both possible ways—it’s true on both interpretations.
Why Communicate? 295
parts of a complex organism that determines its reproductive ﬁtness. The
parts must ‘co-operate’, in the basic etymological sense of ‘work together’.
Multi-level selection theorists also typically emphasize that, just as
cooperation between the parts of a single organism contributes to its
survival, so too, given the right circumstances, the parts of a social entity,
such as a swarm of bees, a group of monkeys, or a human tribe, can
contribute to the well-being of the group as a whole, and hence to the
average survival and reproductive prospects of its individual members.
The social group is the survival vehicle of its individual members. Some
groups, because of their internal composition and dynamics, are better
survival vehicles than others. This is the idea of group selection.
Because in the great majority of cases, genes interact in complex ways to
produce the phenotype, one can rarely identify a case where a single gene
can be said to have been selected, all on its own, without the cooperation
of other genes. What is selected is the whole complex team of interacting
genes.27
When some mutant allele arises which strengthens the working
of the whole team in producing a ﬁt phenotype, this is a genuine case
of gene selection. There are interesting cases, however, where the ﬁtness
contribution of an allele on one chromosome is clearly dependent on
the existence of an opposite allele on the matching chromosome. This is
known as ‘heterozygote advantage’. A well-known case involves sickle-cell
anaemia (Allison 1955, 1964). People who carry alleles on both relevant
chromosomes disposing them to this disease (call this allele +SCA) will
suﬀer from the disease. People who carry both alleles of the opposite allele
(call it −SCA) will be prone to malaria. People with mixed alleles, one
+SCA and the other −SCA, are healthier, in malarial regions of the world,
than those with uniform alleles. What is preferred by natural selection
here is not a single allele of a gene but a two-allele team in which there
is division of labour. One allele protects against malaria, while creating a
potential vulnerability to sickle-cell anaemia; the other allele keeps that
sickle-cell anaemia at bay. Similarly, carriers of a single allele disposing
to cystic ﬁbrosis are less vulnerable to dehydrating conditions such as
cholera, while people who have two such alleles are, of course, prone to
cystic ﬁbrosis (Gabriel et al. 1994). These are neat special cases of the
27
This is shorthand for a somewhat more complex formulation. The complex team of
interacting genes does gain advantage, but if the genes are on diﬀerent chromosomes, the
team is broken up during gametogenesis. The success of a gene has to be measured against
a complex selective background of which an important part is the other genes around at
other loci.
296 The Origins of Meaning
more general phenomenon of alleles being selected in groups, rather than
singly.
This division of labour within an individual organism can also be seen
in social groups. Indeed such division of labour is a hallmark of complex
social groups. The analogy of a team is still relevant. Some members of
a group play one role, others play other roles, all for the beneﬁt of the
group. This is behavioural polymorphism. Dugatkin (1990) constructed a
model of ﬁsh behaviour within shoals. Within each evolved shoal, a few
daring individuals are disposed to leave the shoal and cautiously check
out potential predators. The other members of the shoal are genetically
disposed to stay safely within the shoal. Dugatkin’s models
are equivalent to intrademic group selection models of evolution in struc-
tured populations, in which shoals are trait groups and co-operation evolves
by between-shoal selection. While the results are cast in terms of predator
inspection, the model itself is general and applies to any multi-group scenario
where co-operators beneﬁt entire groups at their own expense. The results
presented here add to the mounting theoretical and empirical evidence that
co-operation is frequently not a pure evolutionarily stable strategy, and that
many metapopulations should be polymorphic for both co-operators and
defectors. (Dugatkin 1990, p. 123)
The prediction of polymorphic populations is an advantage of Group
Selection theory. It allows the possibility that not all members of a group
will be equally cooperative, or equally competitive to display themselves
to advantage. As noted before, with respect to language, human behaviour
is somewhat polymorphic: some members of a group dominate conversa-
tion, others are more content to be the audience.
‘During the 1960’s and 70’s most biologists rejected group selection
as an important evolutionary force, but a positive literature began to
grow during the 70’s and is rapidly expanding today’ (Wilson and Sober
1994, p. 585). Group selection still has a bad name in biology. Biology
undergraduates in my university are still taught, so they tell me, that it is
a fallacy. The central idea of group selection has been re-worked since
Wynne-Edwards (1962)’s original proposal that animals sometimes act
‘for the good of the species’, a naive idea. Here is a taste of the controversy
surrounding the phrase ‘group selection’.
Williams (1966) and others argued that group-level adaptations require a
process of natural selection at the group level and that this process, though
theoretically possible, was unlikely to be important in nature. Their verdict
quickly became the majority view and was celebrated as a major scientiﬁc
Why Communicate? 297
advance, similar to the rejection of Lamarkianism. A generation of graduate
students learned about group selection as an example of how not to think and
it became almost mandatory for the authors of journal articles to assure their
readers that group selection was not being invoked.
(Wilson and Sober 1994, p. 586)
I believe that this partly explains why Dessalles distances his coalition
theory from Group Selection; he need not protest so much, although, as
he has pointed out to me, individuals choose to join coalitions, whereas in
the usual sense of Group Selection theory, individuals do not choose their
groups. An exponent of ‘new group selection’ theory, David Sloan Wilson
put its claim succinctly:
Group-level adaptations are just as compatible with selﬁsh-gene theory as
individual-level adaptations. It would be wrong to claim that groups invari-
ably evolve into adaptive units (the position aptly termed ‘naive group selec-
tion’), but it would be equally wrong to claim that groups never evolve into
adaptive units. The issue must be decided on the basis of where the ﬁtness dif-
ferences occur—between genes within individuals, between individuals within
groups, or between groups within the metapopulation. (Wilson 1998, p. 92)
The theory of group selection does not insist that groups endure for ever;
likewise, of course, individual selection does not require individuals to be
immortal. It is only required that groups cohere long enough to confer
some reproductive advantage on their members. This makes the diﬀerence
between the groups of Group Selection theory and Dessalles’ coalitions a
matter of degree of duration.
Williams admitted the theoretical possibility of group selection, but in
fact convincing examples in non-human nature are hard, if not impossible,
to ﬁnd. A central problem is that of forming a ‘skin’ around a social group
that is as impermeable as the skin of an animal. Putting it somewhat
ﬁguratively, an animal’s skin holds all the parts together and ensures that
it functions as a single identiﬁable entity.28
For something to be taken seri-
ously as a vehicle of selection, it must copy itself with considerable ﬁdelity
through periods of time long enough for the selection process to work, and
it must be clear that there is not too much change in the parts of which it is
composed. For biological selection, individual organisms generally meet
28
This picture is oversimpliﬁed, because animals typically are host to other organisms
of diﬀerent species, some of which may serve functions advantageous to the animal. If this
situation perseveres, the guest organisms may eventually evolve to become intrinsic parts
of the animal. This is true of mitochondria, now the indispensable powerhouses of animal
cells, but once independent bacteria.
298 The Origins of Meaning
these criteria; indeed that is why we call them individual organisms. Social
groups rarely have a ‘skin’ as impermeable as that of an organism. People
leave and new people join frequently. For this reason, biological selection
of social groups is rare, and possibly nonexistent; whole social groups are
not copied by biological means with enough ﬁdelity over the periods of
time that it takes for natural selection to work on their shared genotypes.
Migration in and out of the group messes up its genetic homogeneity. We
will discuss a diﬀerent version of group selection, in which the selection
and copying processes are faster, with a good chance of being fast enough
to outpace the eﬀects of frequent migration of individuals in and out of
social groups.
Sharing a common learned communicative code can be a strong marker
of group membership. As mentioned earlier, in connection with Recipro-
cal Altruism, a possible descendant of that theory could be one which
gives advantage to a strategy prescribing ‘Cooperate with fellow group
members; don’t cooperate with others’. Implementation of such a strat-
egy could involve recognition of group members by their sharing of the
common code.29
In this way, we see a possible complementarity between
the evolution of cooperation and the evolution of conventional commun-
icative codes shared within groups.
Human moral codes, learned and transmitted via expression in lan-
guage, are a force for cohesion within social groups. Moral codes are
the basis of policing mechanisms by which non-conforming individuals
are punished. Often, such moral codes not only prescribe and proscribe
behaviour, but also make statements about group identity. Wilson and
Sober (1994) give an example of the Hutterites, a fundamentalist religious
sect, whose writings emphasized the virtue of individual selﬂess behaviour
and group identity.
It seems to me that, with an important qualiﬁcation, Darwin (1871)’s
picture of the relationship between groups, moral codes, cheaters, and
natural selection was about right. Darwin clearly recognized the cheater
problem:
It is extremely doubtful whether the oﬀspring of the more sympathetic and
benevolent parents, or of those which were the most faithful to their com-
rades, would be reared in greater number than the children of selﬁsh and
treacherous parents of the same tribe. He who was ready to sacriﬁce his life,
29
On this topic, see the discussion of Nettle and Dunbar (1997)’s simulations, and
Dunbar (1999)’s comments, on p. 301.
Why Communicate? 299
as many a savage has been, rather than betray his comrades, would often leave
no oﬀspring to inherit his noble nature. (Darwin 1871, p. 163)
Darwin’s solution was high moral standards:30
It must not be forgotten that although a high standard of morality gives but a
slight or no advantage to each individual man and his children over the other
men of the same tribe, yet that an advancement in the standard of morality
and an increase in the number of well-endowed men will certainly give an
immense advantage to one tribe over another. There can be no doubt that
a tribe including many members who, from possessing in a high degree the
spirit of patriotism, ﬁdelity, obedience, courage, and sympathy, were always
ready to give aid to each other, and to sacriﬁce themselves for the common
good, would be victorious over most other tribes; and this would be natural
selection. At all times throughout the world tribes have supplanted other
tribes; and as morality is one element in their success, the standard of morality
and the number of well-endowed men will thus everywhere tend to rise and
increase. (Darwin 1871, p. 166)
Now, we have a problem here. How can Darwin, of all people, be wrong
about natural selection? The situation he describes would only be counted
as natural selection by modern biologists if the ‘spirit of patriotism,
ﬁdelity, obedience, courage and sympathy’ were passed on biologically
through the genes. What would it mean to say that ‘patriotism’ was bio-
logically inherited? We can read it as a disposition to act in the interests of
the group, but this is certainly a weaker concept than patriotism. Similarly,
‘obedience’ can be read as a biologically inherited disposition to defer to
older or dominant members of the group. But chimpanzees, and humans
in many cultures, are often willing to challenge dominant individuals.
And rigid obedience to dominants may in fact not always be in the best
interests of the group, if the leadership is poor.
Let’s hypothetically stay with the idea, for the moment, that individual
Darwinian virtues promoting group ﬁtness (over other groups) are genet-
ically transmitted. In this case, if juveniles do not emigrate out of their
birth group, it will be hard to distinguish these virtues from those giving
rise to Kin Selection. The group in this case is a collection of genetically
related individuals, and acting in the interests of the group is acting in
the interests of kin. The two cases are not exactly the same, because
close genetic relatedness only applies to very close relatives, and in Kin
30
Darwin was, however, at a loss to explain how particular groups (his example was the
Spanish) came to lose their moral standards and begin to lose in competition with other
groups (his example was the English).
300 The Origins of Meaning
Selection theory it is only the closest relatives that gain much from the
altruism of kin. A distinction could be made if there were some process
like imprinting, whereby individuals were genetically disposed to act in the
interests of those conspeciﬁcs living nearby them while growing up. The
invasion of cheaters might be resisted by reciprocally altruistic behaviour.
To make the case that biological group selection can be clearly distinct
from kin selection, one would have to envisage a pair of contradictory
conditions: (1) a group not deﬁned by kinship relations, and (2) biological
transmission of the dispositions to group-preserving virtues. If such a
group survives for more than one generation, condition 2 will ensure that
condition 1 is violated.
Experience with a range of current human societies makes it clear that
the virtues that Darwin identiﬁed are largely passed on through learn-
ing, and not through the genes. Learning solves problems fast, within
the lifetime of an individual, whereas natural selection solves problems
slowly by sacriﬁcing individuals and experimenting with new variants in
successive generations. Diﬀerent societies have diﬀerent culturally trans-
mitted moral codes. Compare Britain, Japan, and Saudi Arabia; compare
Mormons with Quakers. A modiﬁed (some might say ‘watered down’)
version of group selection, Cultural Group Selection, is distinguishable
from Kin Selection, but such a model has now left the realm of biological
models of selection, and so is not closely comparable with, nor a rival
to, models such as individual selection or gene selection. In a Cultural
Group Selection model, groups are not identiﬁed biologically. A group
might be an all-male pirate ship crew, or an all-female convent, or all the
orphans in an orphanage. If such a group has traditions that are strongly
inculcated into members through learning, and if these traditions tend to
strengthen the whole group in competition with other groups, the group
will thrive and attract new members who also absorb its characteristic
values.
In cultural group selection, the genes still have a crucial involvement, as
the learning of a group’s traditional virtues must be biologically possible.
We can envisage a division of labour between genes and culture. The
genes provide individuals with a general disposition towards ‘groupish-
ness’ comprising such traits as seeking companionship, imitation of group
members, some disposition to reciprocity, avid learning of arbitrary group
norms, and some commitment to enforcing these norms in other group
members. This biological envelope is very permissive, and within it many
diﬀerent sets of cultural conventions can thrive, giving rise to the kaleid-
oscope of languages and cultures that we ﬁnd among humans today.
Why Communicate? 301
In parallel with the linguist’s theory of an innate Universal Grammar
(UG), a template for any humanly learnable language, we can envisage
a characteristically human innate package of dispositions to acquire just
the kind of values that contribute to group cohesion.31
Axelrod et al. (2004)’s study, discussed earlier, showed the evolution
of altruism in groups of individuals living close and sharing observable
traits identifying them as appropriate recipients of altruism. This strongly
suggests the possibility that altruism could also develop in groups of
non-kin living close32
and sharing some group-identity tag. In Axelrod
et al. (2004)’s model, these tags are innate and transmitted genetically, but
Nettle and Dunbar (1997) have shown that similar results are obtained
with learned tags, or ‘badges’ of group membership. In their model, Nettle
and Dunbar (1997) simulated exchanges of resources among a population
of individuals, introducing the restriction that such trade could only occur
between individuals who spoke the same dialect, precisely deﬁned in the
computer code. It was found that MIMICs, individuals capable of chang-
ing their own dialect, chameleon-like, prospered in this scenario, being
able to trade with greater numbers of other people, but only when the
group’s dialect itself was relatively stable. When the group’s dialect was
less stable, MIMICs did not thrive. Dunbar (1999) insightfully comments
on these results:
Although kin selection was not explicitly built into this model, it is not diﬃ-
cult to see that dialect will quickly become important as a badge of relatedness
whenever dialect acquisition is based on learning from those individuals with
whom you live at an early critical period of development (i.e. well prior to
social independence).
The suggestion that dialects are badges of group membership would
explain one of the more curious features of language acquisition, namely the
fact that while we are capable of learning new languages throughout life, our
ability to speak a language as a ‘native’ seems to be restricted to a very brief
period in early childhood. (Dunbar 1999, p. 203)33
31
See Poulshock (2006) for an interesting discussion of these ideas.
32
‘Nothing propinks like propinquity.’
33
A reader disagreed with Dunbar’s conclusion here, writing: ‘On a conventional
individual-selection view, the inability to learn later would need to be individually
advantageous—but I don’t see that it is.’ This objection could be countered by a conse-
quence of Hurford (1991)’s model, where the inability to learn after puberty, though not
positively advantageous, evolves through the random accumulation of mutations in the
population and the lack of any further pressure to learn language once it has already been
learned (before puberty).
302 The Origins of Meaning
This gets us close to a scenario of the co-evolution of coopera-
tive/altruistic communication with the learned communicative code itself
as a group identity tag. The function of a language as a marker of group
identity may go some way towards explaining why there are so many
diﬀerent languages, why the human capacity for language allows so many
diﬀerent manifestations of language. An identity marker serves simultane-
ously to bind members of the group and to distance them from members
of other groups.
Dessalles’ theory invoked policing within a coalition. Enforcement of
group norms by punishment is also central to an evolutionary model
of altruism developed by Gintis (2000) and Henrich and Boyd (2001)
and explored empirically by Henrich et al. (2001). The model is called
‘Strong Reciprocity’. The central idea is that a social group contains
some individuals deﬁned like this: ‘A strong reciprocator is predisposed
to cooperate with others and punish non-cooperators, even when this
behavior cannot be justiﬁed in terms of extended kinship or reciprocal
altruism’ (Gintis 2000, p. 169). Polymorphism is also a feature of this
model. The population need not consist wholly of strong reciprocators.
A problem for Reciprocal Altruism, mentioned earlier, is that it does not
work in hard times, when the likelihood of future reciprocation is low.
A theoretical model of Strong Reciprocity shows how that weakness in
Reciprocal Altruism can be overcome:
[A] small number of strong reciprocators, who punish defectors whether or
not it is in their long-term interest, can dramatically improve the survival
chances of human groups. ...This is because even if strong reciprocators form
a small fraction of the population, at least occasionally they will form a
suﬃcient fraction of the group that cooperation can be maintained in bad
times. Such a group will then outcompete other self-interested groups, and
the fraction of strong reciprocators will grow. (Gintis et al. 2003, p. 163)
What strong reciprocators do is short-circuit the time-gap from one
episode between two people to the next. Under Reciprocal Altruism, after
one episode in which a person has not received due cooperation, the
defector goes on his way, and in hard times may never be seen again. But
if the defector has the bad luck to be dealing with a strong reciprocator,
he will get immediately punished if he doesn’t cooperate. So if he knows
who he is dealing with, he cooperates. Even if he thinks there is a chance
he may be dealing with a strong reciprocator, it will be wise to cooperate,
if the likely punishment is severe.
Why Communicate? 303
In the next chapter, we will see some empirical evidence that humans
and other primates are prepared to ignore their own short-term advantage
in order to punish others who, in one way or another, do not conform to
group norms of cooperation.
From the point of view of language evolution, we have a chicken-and-
egg problem, if we take moral codes, or explicit group norms, to be the
crucial glue that holds coherent social groups together. We want to know
how language arose from non-language. A degree of social cohesion is a
prior condition for the emergence of a group-wide shared communicative
system. This degree of cohesion cannot, then, be enforced by a moral
code expressed, and propagated to the young, by means of that com-
municative system. The prescriptions of our moral codes are expressed
in quite complex syntactic language. It is possible that the existence of
complex language was a factor in maintaining cohesion in groups after
the human language capacity had evolved to near its present state. But we
need to look for other sources of group cohesion if we want to use group
cohesion to explain the early rudimentary beginnings of the language
faculty.
A relatively simple and obvious group selection model worth exploring
would correlate intra-group communication non-linearly with the group’s
potential for outcompeting other groups. This might be envisaged in the
following way. To put it concretely, let’s say the main form of inter-group
competition is ﬁghting; it could be less violent forms of competition, like
deprivation of resources, but ﬁghting makes the example vivid. The idea
could be that it’s the number of intercommunicating pairs that gives a
boost to ﬁghting ability. Then with k ﬁghters, there would be k(k−1)/2
possible pairs of communicators. Suppose that each communicating pair
eﬀectively adds the equivalent of an extra ﬁghter to the group. Then a
group of 10 with no communicating pairs would have the eﬀective ﬁghting
capacity of 10. A group with just 2 individuals capable of communicating
with each other would have a capacity of 11, and a group in which any
individual could communicate with any other would have a capacity of 55.
Suppose also, plausibly, that the same code was used for communication
in all pairs. Then, given one communicating pair, a third individual joining
the communicating pair, would eﬀectively add the strength of 2 to the
whole group. A fourth individual joining this communicating trio would
eﬀectively add the strength of 3 to the whole group. And a ﬁfth joining
individual would add the strength of 4, and so on. This is deﬁnitely non-
linear in the ‘right’ direction.
304 The Origins of Meaning
Summarizing this chapter, evolutionary theory provides a large number
of tools which might in part solve the mystery of how human commun-
ication evolved beyond the stage seen in non-human primates. I have
reviewed the most frequently discussed ideas: niche-construction, Kin
Selection, Reciprocal Altruism, Sexual Selection, the Handicap Principle,
the theory of costly signalling, Dessalles’ coalition theory, Group Selec-
tion, and Strong Reciprocity. In all cases, the theories are internally
coherent, and it is fairly clear what cognitive and social conditions must
hold for them to be applicable to the case of human language. No single
theory does the trick entirely. One should avoid the tendency in lan-
gage evolution studies to advocate any single model, to the exclusion of
others that could equally have applied in parallel, or in sequence. On
a cross-cultural analysis of human food-giving, Gurven (2004) summa-
rizes: ‘Each model can explain some of the variance in sharing patterns
within groups, and so generalizations that ignore or deny the importance
of any one model may be misleading’ (p. 543). In a commentary on
Gurven’s article, Moore (2004) suggests that human food-sharing can
best be accounted for by assuming that ‘Rather than distinct alterna-
tives, tolerated scrounging (TS), costly signaling (CS), and reciprocal
altruism (RA) are likely to be sequentially evolved components of a
single integrated system (and kin selection (KS) important only among
very close relatives)’ (p. 566). The sequential involvement that Moore
has in mind is over the course of phylogenetic evolution. This echoes
the thought of Fitch (2005, p. 214) quoted earlier (p. 264), in the spe-
ciﬁc context of language evolution, suggesting that Kin Selection ‘paved
the way’ for Reciprocal Altruism. As the next evolutionary step, Gin-
tis (2000) has shown that Strong Reciprocity can emerge from Recip-
rocal Altruism through Group Selection. An evolutionary cascade of
selective processes like that shown below can be roughly envisaged this
theorizing:
Individual → Kin → Reciprocal → Strong → Cultural
Selection Selection Altruism Reciprocity Group
(including and Selection
Sexual Mutualistic
Selection) Cooperation
The later a process is in this sequence, the rarer it is in nature, and the more
demanding of cognitive resources such as memory and learning. Mutual-
ism requires more than Individual Selection, especially some anticipation
Why Communicate? 305
of the actions of others, but requires less than Reciprocal Altruism, in
that there is no need to keep track of who cooperated in previous encoun-
ters. Cultural Group Selection is probably uniquely human, and is still
controversial among theorists. Also along this scale, there is progressive
enrichment of the type of information conveyed in communication. In
Sexual Selection, the information conveyed need not have semantic con-
tent about any external object or event; it can have purely illocutionary
force, even if the signal itself is somewhat complex, as with some birdsong.
In the middle of the scale, with Mutualistic Cooperation and Reciprocal
Altruism, communicative forms of altruism and cooperation would be
about valuable things in the environment. At the right-hand end of the
scale, with Cultural Group Selection, especially as we move towards fully
human groups, there is the capacity to formulate explicit public moral
codes, which are not only about external objects, but about permitted and
forbidden potential behaviour.
Taken together, then, there are enough coherent theoretical models to
make it not too surprising that somewhat cooperative, somewhat com-
petitive, complex human language evolved, and that there are so many
diﬀerent languages. If ever this becomes no surprise at all, we will face
the opposite embarrassing question of why language only evolved in one
species. This is the state of the ﬁeld at the moment. A reader has expressed
disappointment here: ‘This chapter needs a more powerful conclusion
that matches the great expectations created in the introductory pages.
It doesn’t matter if the proposal is then accompanied by qualiﬁcations
and protests of awareness of its speculative nature. This chapter deserves
a better ending.’ Well, I’m sorry, but we have to be honest. Work on
language evolution is already speculative enough. Humans, especially
with the emergence of language, appear to have squeezed through an
evolutionary loophole, and it is hard to specify exactly which combination
of the factors reviewed in this chapter provided that loophole. But some
combination did evidently do the trick. Bumblebees can ﬂy, and humans
do have extensive cooperative language. To the limited extent that any
single factor should be emphasized, I believe it is the rise of a disposition
towards communicative cooperation, to be discussed at greater length in
the next chapter. Almost all the theories surveyed here were not devised
with language speciﬁcally in mind. Most concentrated on the problem of
the evolution of altruism and cooperation. Despite the obvious materially
cooperative uses of language for imparting useful information, I wish to
emphasize the importance, for language evolution, of a more basic form of
306 The Origins of Meaning
cooperation: communicative cooperation. To be communicatively cooper-
ative is simply to use the same communicative code as one’s interlocutor.
Given communicative cooperation, a speaker is free to decide whether to
be materially cooperative (i.e. to give true relevant information in a clear
manner) or not (i.e. to lie or obfuscate). Communicative cooperation is
‘playing the same language game’. A community of users of the same
code can form a cohesive social group, which could be a unit of selection.
Use of the common code can serve to distinguish group members from
outsiders, for decisions about whether to cooperate or act altruistically.
This will arise again in Chapter 9.
C H A P T E R N I N E
Cooperation, Fair Play, and
Trust in Primates
Moving from the theoretical to the empirical, this short chapter will exam-
ine the extent to which behaviour reﬂecting any kind of social contract
exists among primates.
9.1 mind-reading, a prerequisite for intentional
cooperation
In Section 5 of Chapter 6 (p. 204), I mentioned the Machiavellian, mani-
pulative nature of life in primate groups. To be able to manipulate others
eﬀectively, you need to be able to read their minds. The topic of ‘Theory
of Mind’ in psychology has blossomed in recent years. Put simply, for
an animal to have a theory of mind, it has to know that other creatures
(usually conspeciﬁcs) go through the same mental processes as it does. An
animal that can do this can project its own state of mind onto another
creature. It can ‘say to itself’, ‘in that situation, I would think in way X,
and decide to do Z, so I assume that the other creature is probably also
thinking in way X and likely to do Z.’
A theory of mind (ToM) is not something that animals either simply
have or do not have. It is multifaceted, or at least its behavioural correlates
are, and experimental research necessarily works with a range of diﬀerent
operational tests. Tager-Flusberg and Sullivan (2000), among others, list
as components of ToM a capacity for attribution of false beliefs, explana-
tion of the actions of others, and recognition of emotional expressions.
Heyes (1998, p. 101), in a critical survey of this area, lists studies of
‘imitation, [mirror] self-recognition, social relationships, deception, role-
taking (or empathy), and perspective-taking’ as the most prominent types
claiming to shed light on ToM in non-human primates. In my own brief
review here, I will concentrate on experiments which try to test whether
308 The Origins of Meaning
apes can recognize or know about diﬀerent intentional states in others, in
particular recognition of cooperative versus competitive intentions, and
knowledge of what another animal can see and of what another animal
can know.
In the area of ToM research, stark diﬀerences in research style also
emerge, with experimentalists typically setting the criteria fairly high, i.e.
being reluctant to concede any aspect of a theory of mind to non-humans,
while ethologists who mainly observe animals in the wild, without experi-
mental intervention, tend to describe their data in more anthropomorphic
terms, thus often granting the animals some degree of understanding of
other minds. This tension in the ﬁeld is visible in the following quotation
from Celia Heyes, a researcher who is on the ‘tough’ experimentalist end
of the spectrum:
Since the BBS article in which Premack and Woodruﬀ (1978) asked ‘Does
the chimpanzee have a theory of mind?,’ it has been repeatedly claimed that
there is observational and experimental evidence that apes have mental state
concepts, such as ‘want’ and ‘know’. Unlike research on the development of
theory of mind in childhood, however, no substantial progress has been made
through this work with non-human primates. A survey of empirical studies
of imitation, self-recognition, social relationships, deception, role-taking, and
perspective-taking suggests that in every case where non-human primate
behavior has been interpreted as a sign of theory of mind, it could instead
have occurred by chance or as a product of nonmentalistic processes such as
associative learning or inferences based on nonmental categories. Arguments
to the eﬀect that, in spite of this, the theory of mind hypothesis should be
accepted because it is more parsimonious than alternatives or because it is
supported by convergent evidence are not compelling.
(Heyes, 1998, p. 101)
Heyes’ article surveys the literature available at the time, and is a text-
book exposition of a style of discipline applied in extrapolating from
evidence, in controlled experiments. Not surprisingly, it drew protest from
highly experienced ﬁeld ethologists, for example: ‘But how often should
one prefer an implausible, complicated, nonmentalistic account, over a
simple mentalistic one?’ (Byrne 1998, p. 117). The debate might, wrongly,
be taken to reﬂect a classic historic division in the study of animals,
which one could say, with some liberty, pits Cartesians against Dar-
winians: the former see discontinuity between humans and non-humans,
the latter see continuity. What is the appropriate null hypothesis? Is it
that humans and apes are so similar that one would expect apes to
diﬀer minimally from humans in their mental processes? In this case
the onus is on researchers to demonstrate diﬀerences in the capacities
Cooperation, Fair Play, and Trust in Primates 309
of humans and apes. This has, of course, been done in great detail for
many tasks. The alternative null hypothesis is that humans and apes
are so diﬀerent that one would be surprised to ﬁnd any similarities in
their mental processes, and the onus in this case is on researchers to
demonstrate such similarities, which, of course, has also been done in
great detail. So the debate cannot be a simple, antiquated dispute between
Cartesians and Darwinians. With some exceptions, Darwin has carried
the day.
So what is this argument about? It is about scientiﬁc method. Note
how the concept of parsimony is focal. Heyes (1998, p. 135) characterizes
a Cartesian approach as based on introspection, which tells the intro-
specter that her own mental states, at least, are real. This introspectionist
approach is eloquently castigated by Provine (2005, p. 713): ‘[W]e over-
estimate the conscious control of behavior and cannot trust its narrative
as an explanation of our actions. ...We are misled by an inner voice that
generates a reasonable but often fallacious narrative and explanation of
our actions, and we use this account to interpret the actions of others.’
But Provine does admit that ‘proving this proposition is a challenge’
(p. 713). Heyes prefers an alternative ‘functionalist view of mental states. I
take them to be theoretical entities, characterized by their relationships
with sensory inputs, motor outputs, and other (functionally deﬁned)
mental states, not by their subjective properties and therefore to aﬀord
empirical investigation’ (1998, p. 135). Heyes then frankly admits that
‘On this issue, we are all to some degree restating dogma’ (p. 135). My
own a priori commitment does not, unlike Heyes, entirely rule out the
evidence of introspection about our own mental states. On the basis of
my own awareness of my mental states, and of the evident similarities
and diﬀerences between humans and apes, I fall somewhere between what
Heyes calls the ‘chauvinist’ and the ‘liberal’ positions. If I, partly on
the basis of introspection, and partly as an elegant way of explaining
my own and others’ behaviour, believe that I and other humans have
mental states that I can, in everyday life, in some way know about,
then, since apes are obviously somewhat like us, I regard it as not too
improbable that apes also can know about others’ mental states. I do
not lean over as far as Heyes does in denying a theory of mind to apes,
and I grant more plausibility than she does to the conclusions of the
‘liberal’ ﬁeld ethologists, like Byrne. Nonetheless, the stiﬀ dose of experi-
mental rigour administered by Heyes keeps one from complacency on
this issue. If the whole gamut of ape behaviour can be easily explained
without appealing to their knowledge of the mental states of others, then
so be it.
310 The Origins of Meaning
Chimpanzees can tell the diﬀerence between a human who is deliber-
ately teasing them with food and one who is merely clumsy in trying,
unsuccessfully, to give them food (Call et al. 2004). In this experiment,
a human experimenter sat opposite a chimpanzee on the other side of a
plexiglass screen with a hole in it. In the ‘teasing’ condition, the exper-
imenter oﬀered food to the chimpanzee through the hole, but quickly
withdrew it when the chimp was about to take it; the experimenter kept
repeating this teasing. In the ‘fumbling’ condition, the experimenter sim-
ilarly oﬀers food through the hole, but clumsily drops it, so that it rolls
back down a shelf sloping towards the experimenter; the experimenter
kept repeating this fumbling. In the teasing condition, the chimpanzees
showed signiﬁcantly more impatience with the situation, angrily banging
on the glass and leaving the station early. In the fumbling condition, the
chimpanzees waited more patiently for the experimenter to get it right.
The visual diﬀerence, to the chimpanzee, between the two conditions was
minimal. In both cases a hand proferred food through the hole, and at
the last minute the food was either pulled back or dropped. This seems
to demonstrate an awareness in the chimpanzee of the diﬀerence between
two intentional attitudes in the experimenter. In a similar experiment with
children, Behne et al. (2005) showed that children were able to make a
similar discrimination at the age of 9 months, but not at 6 months.
Povinelli and Barth (2005) criticize Call et al. (2004)’s mentalistic inter-
pretation of their experiment: ‘[W]e note that the experiments they cite in
support of the idea that chimpanzees represent intentions are designed
in a manner that cannot distinguish between whether they [the chim-
panzees] are reasoning about behavior alone, or behavior and mental
states’ (p. 712). Povinelli and Barth (2005)’s own alternative proposal is
a ‘reinterpretation hypothesis’:
The reinterpretation hypothesis posits that the ancestor of the ape/human
group possessed a suite of systems dedicated to representing and reasoning
about behavior (detailed in Povinelli & Vonk 2004), but not intentions or
other mental states. Further the model posits that, at some point in the
evolution of the human lineage (probably coincident with evolution of natural
language), a new system for encoding the behavior of self and other in terms
of mental states was grafted into these ancestral systems for representing and
reasoning about behavior. In modern humans, then, these two systems are
now complexly interleaved into each other. (p. 713)
According to Povinelli and Barth (2005), ‘only humans represent mental
states at all’ (p. 713). Provine (2005, p. 713) won’t even go this far, or,
Cooperation, Fair Play, and Trust in Primates 311
we might say, goes even further: ‘Intention, shared or unshared, is based
on the presumption of unknowable and unnecessary motives and mental
states in ourselves and others.’
I told you this is a contentious area! My own adopted position is sym-
pathetic to Call et al. (2004)’s mentalistic interpretation of their experi-
ment, according to which chimpanzees can distinguish between diﬀerent
kinds of intentions in an experimenter, between teasing and fumbling.
Whatever the interpretation, the experimental results are important. They
show something that chimpanzees can do, that we didn’t know about
before. It is not possible to resolve the intention-reading versus non-
intention-reading argument on the basis of one or two experiments. So
far, all we know is that chimpanzees can distinguish between the physical
manifestations of teasing and fumbling. We need a whole series of experi-
ments to test whether chimpanzees can distinguish between two large,
physically heterogeneous, classes of behaviours, to which we humans
would give labels such as ‘uncooperative’ and ‘cooperative’. The more
such experiments succeed, and the more physically varied are the pairs
of stimuli compared, the more compelling it will be to conclude that
the chimpanzees have mental categorizations of large and heterogeneous
classes of behaviour, which it is convenient for us to label as ‘cooperative’
and ‘uncooperative’. For what it is worth, I expect this is how it will turn
out. For all the experiments to be described below, this same methodolog-
ical issue could be revisited. I will not keep coming back to it. I have stated
my preferred position.
‘Chimpanzees know what conspeciﬁcs do and do not see’. This is the
title of an article by Hare et al. (2000). The experimenters kept a dominant
chimpanzee in a cage from which it could see one, but not both, of two
pieces of food. A subordinate chimpanzee was held in a place from where
it could see which of the two pieces the dominant chimpanzee could see.
If it was released before the dominant chimp into the food-containing
space, it chose to go towards the food which it knew the dominant chimp
has not been able to see. This is not surprising, given the results on gaze-
following mentioned in Chapter 7.1. In a closely similar experiment with
capuchin monkeys, Hare et al. (2003) found that these animals did not
systematically choose the food that they had been in a position to see that
a dominant animal could not see. ‘This series of experiments has demon-
strated that when competing for food capuchin monkeys excel at reading
the behaviour of conspeciﬁcs, but they do not use information about what
others do and do not see’ (p. 140). Chimpanzees are better than capuchin
monkeys at acting in accordance with what others can, or cannot, see.
312 The Origins of Meaning
The same team of experimenters (Hare et al. 2001) followed up with
a more complex situation, in which a dominant and a subordinate chim-
panzee both saw pieces of food being laid out, and saw each other see
it. But then, while the dominant was not looking, but the subordinate
was looking, one piece was moved to another location. In this situa-
tion the subordinate chimpanzee preferentially moved towards the food
which it knew the dominant animal had not seen moved. This is the
most convincing evidence, to date, that chimpanzees know what others
believe.
So far, no experiment has managed to show that any non-human
animal can know about the false belief of another, as adult humans
can. This can be tested for humans by the well-known ‘Sally Ann’ test
used to test autistic people (Baron-Cohen et al. 1985). In this test, a
marble is placed in a basket in view of the test subject and an observer
(Sally); Sally then leaves the room, and the marble is moved from the
basket to a box; the test subject is then asked, ‘Where will Sally look
for the marble? Most autistics fail to realize that Sally will look in the
basket, because that was where the marble was when she last saw it,
even though it has been moved since. The Sally Ann test is verbal, as
the subject is asked a question. Eﬀorts continue to devise a non-verbal
test which can be administered to animals. The Sally Ann test probes
the extent to which subjects can ascribe a belief to others which they
themselves know to be false. Lohmann and Tomasello (2003) provide
evidence that language facilitates this ability in children, and cite a large
number of other works reinforcing this conclusion. They note that ‘lin-
guistic experience is a strong facilitator, perhaps even necessary condition,
in the development of children’s false belief understanding’ (p. 1139). The
ﬁndings on (non-language-trained) chimpanzees mentioned above show
that they can know what others believe, but it is still not clear whether
this extends to speciﬁcally false beliefs. But exposure to language, espe-
cially of the right sort, for example with sentential complement clauses
as in Sally thinks that ..., triggers its earlier emergence in normal child
development.
In a recent survey of work on ‘What chimpanzees know about see-
ing’, Call and Tomasello (2005) admit to some baﬄement as to what
chimpanzees know about the intentional states of others: ‘Chimpanzees’
behaviour in many socially complex situations is decidedly mixed. They
behave very intelligently in some ways—seeming to understand and rea-
son about others—but they still do not seem to understand some social
interactions in the way that humans do’ (p. 61). They settle, at this point
in the saga of this research, for a middle position on chimpanzees, between
Cooperation, Fair Play, and Trust in Primates 313
the extremes of simple behavioural conditioning and full-blown Theory of
Mind.
Knowing what another animal knows sets the scene for cooperation,
which we will look at in the next section. Full cooperation requires that
the cooperators each know that the other intends to work on the task
concerned.
9.2 cooperation
Chimpanzees vary in the degree to which they can be rated as helpful
to each other. Within an anthropomorphic research tendency, King and
Figueredo (1997) analysed the personalities of 100 zoo chimpanzees using
the same ‘Big Five’ personality traits as are commonly used to describe
human personality, plus a sixth, ‘Dominance’ which plays a signiﬁcant
role in chimpanzee social relations.
The Big Five, namely surgency, agreeableness, dependability, emotionality,
and openness, emerge across a variety of diﬀerent Western and non-Western
cultures and across diﬀerent age groups (see (John, 1990; Costa and McCrae,
1992) for reviews). In addition, all ﬁve factors have heritabilities approaching
.50 (Bouchard, 1994). ...
The discovery of the human Big Five personality structure in chimpanzees
would thus parallel discoveries of advanced social intelligence in this species
and would imply that the human pattern of personality organization long
antedated the recent emergence of Homo sapiens, just as the current research
on ape behavior indicates that advanced social intelligence extends far back
in our hominid ancestry. ...
Zoo workers are unquestionably able to rate adjectival personality traits of
chimpanzees with reliabilities as great as or possibly greater than comparable
peer/peer ratings of humans.
(King and Figueredo 1997, pp. 258, 259, 265)
The factors constituting Agreeableness are +Sympathetic, +Helpful,
+Sensitive, +Protective, and +Gentle. This work is signiﬁcant for our
concerns for two reasons. First, it points out the variability within an ape
species. One cannot simply generalize to a common uniform chimpanzee
personality. This variability, of course, is the fuel of natural selection.
Secondly, it appears that one can classify some chimpanzees as in some
sense ‘sympathetic’ and ‘helpful’ to some degree. Thus these traits are not
entirely absent from the chimpanzee population. We can read ‘helpful’
as roughly synonymous with ‘cooperative’. In the questionnaire used for
King et al. (2005)’s study, the ‘helpful’ factor is glossed as ‘Subject is
willing to assist, accommodate, or cooperate with other chimpanzees’.
314 The Origins of Meaning
The questionnaire did not specify whether the other chimpanzees had to
be non-kin. The implication of the study is that chimpanzee helpfulness is
sometimes manifested towards non-kin. But the speciﬁc manifestations
of helpfulness are not classiﬁed or quantiﬁed, so the study is merely
suggestive.
Individual variation among chimpanzees in helpfulness is also demon-
strated in experiments by Melis et al. (2006a, 2006b). Here, helpfulness
does not mean willingness to volunteer help so much as skill in carrying
out a collaborative task eﬀectively. In these experiments, in a setup where
a chimpanzee could beneﬁt only by getting another to collaborate, and
where it was allowed to choose between two potential collaborators, it
learned to choose the animal who, from past experience, it had found
to be the more eﬀective collaborator. This shows, not only that there
is variation on a dimension related to cooperation, on which natural
selection can operate, but also that chimpanzees can act as the agents of
this selection. This last assertion is only true if the chosen collaborator
gets to share the beneﬁts of the cooperative act. This is often not the
case, and a dominant animal will get a subordinate to collaborate, but
take most or all of the reward for itself, as reported in experiments on
chimpanzees by Chalmeau (1994; Chalmeau and Gallo 1996). In experi-
ments with orangutans (Chalmeau et al. 1997), a dominant animal actu-
ally bullied a subordinate into collaboration, and then took 92% of the
reward.
Chimpanzees who have been trained to use symbols to request things
from humans can also be easily made to transfer this ability to request
things from other chimps, and the addressee of such requests usually
cooperates by giving the item requested. In the studies which discovered
this (Savage-Rumbaugh et al. 1978b; Savage-Rumbaugh 1980), the items
requested were tools. The animals would presumably have been less will-
ing to collaborate if the items requested had been food.
Against this picture that chimpanzees can be somewhat helpful to each
other, there is a stack of evidence that they are typically selﬁsh, and ﬁnd
it hard to interpret the behaviour of others as helpful, even when it really
is. Silk et al. (2005) used an experimental setup in which a chimpanzee
could choose between getting food delivered only to itself or to itself
and another chimpanzee visible in an adjacent enclosure. There was no
advantage or disadvantage to the actor chimp in either case, but there
deﬁnitely was a possible beneﬁt to the other chimp, if the actor pulled
the appropriate handle. So this experiment was not even asking whether
chimpanzees would behave altruistically, since there was never any cost to
Cooperation, Fair Play, and Trust in Primates 315
the chooser. All that was sought was ‘other-regarding’ behaviour, weaker
than true altruism. The results showed all the experimental subjects to be
indiﬀerent to whether the other animal got any food. Mostly, they chose
randomly between the two possible actions. In this setup, chimpanzees are
not other-regarding.
Compared to humans, even our closest relatives among the apes, chim-
panzees, are more motivated in their natural habitat to act competitively
than to act cooperatively. They can to some extent ﬁgure out each other’s
intentions, but their natural expectations seem to be that others will have
competitive, rather than cooperative, intentions. This is well shown in
an experiment by Hare and Tomasello (2004), who used a novel twist
on the object-choice paradigm which was discussed earlier (Chapter 7.2,
on pointing and following of pointing). Hare and Tomasello (2004) got
the chimpanzee subjects familiar with two human experimenters: one a
cooperative person who willingly shared food with the animal and showed
pleasure when the animal found food, and another person who acted
competitively with the animal, keeping found food for himself and show-
ing annoyance when the chimpanzee got food. The chimpanzees learned
these personality traits well. In the actual experiment, in the competitive
condition, the competitive experimenter would make a reaching gesture
for a container (one of two) containing hidden food. The chimpanzee
subjects interpreted this movement relatively well, and tended to grab
the food in anticipation of the competitor’s getting it. In the cooperative
condition, the cooperative experimenter would indicate the position of
food by a pointing gesture minimally diﬀerent from the reaching gesture
used by the competitive experimenter; the chimpanzees didn’t get it, only
choosing the correct container at a near-chance level. The diﬀerence
between their mainly accurate responses to a human competitor and
their apparently random responses to a human cooperator were highly
signiﬁcant (P = 0.009). In a similar experiment, comparing a human
cooperator with a conspeciﬁc (i.e. chimpanzee) competitor, again the
chimpanzee subjects responded much more accurately in the face of com-
petition than in a cooperative situation (P = 0.045). The message seems
to be that though chimpanzees can read the intentions of others, they do
not expect those intentions to be cooperative, and so a certain class of
others’ intentions (the cooperative ones) remains a relatively closed book
to them.
In a very stimulating article, Tomasello et al. (2005) introduce the idea
of ‘shared intentionality’. They postulate that this is what is uniquely
distinctive of humans (and therefore found in no other animals):
316 The Origins of Meaning
In general, it is almost unimaginable that two chimpanzees might spontan-
eously do something as simple as carry something together or help each other
make a tool, that is, do something with a commitment to do it together and
to help each other with their role if needed. Indeed, in a recent study Hare
and Tomasello (2004) found that in a single food ﬁnding task structured
as either competition or cooperation, chimpanzees performed much more
skillfully in the competitive version. Nor does ape communication seem to
be collaborative in the same way as human communication. Most basically,
there is very little communication about third entities (topics), and there are
no signals serving a declarative or informative motive.
(Tomasello et al. 2005, p. 685)
This strong claim is falsiﬁed in a weak way by a later study from
Tomasello’s own lab (Melis et al. 2006b), in which it was found that some
pairs of chimpanzees who had in the past been disposed to share food
would also spontaneously cooperate by pulling widely separated ropes
to draw a food tray within their mutual reach. However, only pairs that,
outside the experiment, had showed a degree of tolerance for each other
collaborated in this way. Tomasello et al. (2005)’s strong claim also drew
criticism on factual grounds from commentators who had obserbed ani-
mals in the ﬁeld. Boesch (2005), for example, decried the lack of mention
of many ﬁeld observations. As we have seen, the experimentalist-versus-
ﬁeld-observer tension is endemic in ethology. Boesch asks what many
others have asked in this context: ‘Don’t lions, and wolves, and chim-
panzees hunt cooperatively?’ Boesch pointed out that chimpanzees, in
hunting colobus monkeys, assume various diﬀerent roles, such as drivers,
blockers, chasers, and ambushers. Earlier, Stander (1992) had made a
similar observation about lions. He analysed 486 coordinated group hunts
and found:
Group hunts generally involved a formation whereby some lionesses (wings)
circled prey while others (centres) waited for prey to move towards them.
Those lionesses that occupied wing stalking roles frequently initiated an
attack on the prey, while lionesses in centre roles moved relatively small
distances and most often captured prey in ﬂight from other lionesses. Each
lioness in a given pride repeatedly occupied the same position in a hunting
formation. Hunts where most lionesses present occupied their preferred posi-
tions had a high probability of success. (Stander 1992, p. 445)
Given descriptions like this, many people naturally ask: ‘Is this not coop-
erative hunting?’ Tomasello et al. (2005)’s clear response is that it is not, in
the sense of their construct ‘shared intentionality’. What happens in such
Cooperation, Fair Play, and Trust in Primates 317
hunts, in their view, is that each animal acts to maximize its own advan-
tage, given its own individual preferences for action and the particular
position in the hunting scene that it ﬁnds itself in. There is no shared plan.
The expression ‘shared plan’ is ambiguous and needs careful deﬁnition
in both its senses. Two candidates running for election each have a plan;
for each of them, the plan is the same—to get elected. In a sense, they
‘share a plan’, but of course they do not act cooperatively. Somewhat more
relevantly, recall the behaviour of Clements and Stephens (1995)’s blue
jays in a mutualistic scenario, described in the previous chapter. Here, the
environment in the experiment was set up in such a way that if one blue jay
did something that was, incidentally, to the advantage of the other blue
jay, the acting blue jay also reaped a beneﬁt. Not so surprisingly, the blue
jays, in this mutualistic scenario, acted ‘cooperatively’. The blue jays in
some sense shared a plan—‘maximize my reward’. Now, compare this to
a lion hunt. If you are a lioness and the other lionesses are setting out in
the direction of a wildebeest that you could not catch on your own, and
you are hungry, do you join them? And if another lioness goes to the right
of the prey, tending to drive it to the left, which way is it advantageous
for you to go? Pusey and Packer (1997) note the division of labour in
the lion hunts described by Stander, and conclude: ‘However, they hunted
ﬂeet-footed prey in open habitat, and individual hunting success was close
to zero. Thus, their cooperative hunting was highly likely to have been
mutualistic’ (p. 277). And, in a sense, the lionesses share a plan: they are
all after the same prey.
Pack-hunting animals, like wolves, lions, and chimpanzees, are likely to
have evolved behavioural dispositions quite speciﬁc to the circumstances
of their prey and its habitat. Schuster (2005) gives examples from lion
and hyena hunting suggesting that these animals occasionally employ
a narrowly context-speciﬁc form of shared intentionality. The kind of
shared intentionality that Tomasello et al. (2005) have in mind is more
general-purpose, involving an animal’s ability to see in many diﬀerent
circumstances what another animal is trying to do, and to adopt that
same intention. Much implementation of shared intentionality in humans
is probably learned, and culturally transmitted. Young people have to
be taught to help old ladies to cross the road. It is, then, possible to
see the diﬀerence between humans and non-humans not as a black-or-
white matter of one species having shared intentionality and all others
simply not having it, but rather as a matter of the large diﬀerences of
degree and context-boundedness to which various species have shared
intentionality.
318 The Origins of Meaning
Other commentators draw attention to the variability of human shared
intentionality. Brownell et al. (2005), for example, note that while children
show signs of shared intentionality with their caregivers at an early stage,
there is ‘little evidence of either collaborative understanding or motivation
to collaborate with peers until the close of the second year of life or well
into the third year’ (p. 693). It is also universally acknowledged that,
among humans, severe autists do not engage in shared intentionality.
Among non-autistic humans it is a matter of willingness as well as of
ability. Individual human personalities diﬀer in the degree to which they
are moved to help other people. At your next extended family gather-
ing or departmental party, see who volunteers to help prepare the meal
or tidy up afterwards, and who doesn’t seem to notice what needs to
be done.
Tomasello et al. (2005)’s article also drew criticism on grounds of ‘alter-
native magic bullets’, as they put it. Bickerton (2005) and Gergely and
Csibra (2005), using rather diﬀerent terms, point to the existence of eﬀect-
ive communication as a prerequisite for shared intentionality. Bickerton
straightforwardly calls it language, while Gergely and Csibra write of the
‘ability to communicate relevant information’. Both commentaries claim
that communication must have preceded shared intentionality, to which
Tomasello et al. robustly reply that it had to be the other way around.
Consider my analogy in the previous chapter (p. 270) with tennis players
cooperating insofar as they play tennis together, while all the time trying
to gain individual advantage. The very act of using language involves a
kind of shared intentionality to play by the rules of the same language
game.
There can be shared intentionality without a shared language. I remem-
ber a comical twenty minutes trying to gesture to a Greek grocer that
I wanted olive oil. He knew that I wanted something and attended very
sympathetically while I went through a repertoire of picking, pressing,
and tasting gestures. Without a common language, we shared for twenty
minutes the intention that he would sell me something. Eventually we
got there. Having a language in common would have given us a shortcut,
achieving the transaction in more businesslike, but less memorable, fash-
ion. On many other occasions, using only the most minimal vocabulary
of a host country, I have found that natives pick up fast on my intention
of ﬁnding some place or thing and willingly give what guidance they can.
Learning a language just equips you with a system for quicker and easier
intentionality-sharing with its speakers.
Cooperation, Fair Play, and Trust in Primates 319
Could there be any semblance of language without shared intention-
ality? It is possible to imagine a couple of advanced robots (say Mars
landers), programmed to give each other detailed information about their
locations and the terrain where they are. In this way, they can be used to
check on each other’s work, or, perhaps by taking coordinated readings
of the same Martian crater from diﬀerent positions, they can report inter-
esting facts back to their human controllers. The robots would have been
programmed to feed complex information to each other, and to respond
to received information with appropriate action. No mention of intentions
here yet, let alone shared intentionality. And it is a feasible scenario, in
which much detailed information could be exchanged, and appropriate
action taken. But this is of course an artiﬁcial example; the robots have
been programmed by human minds to communicate in this coordinated
and cooperative fashion. At a more mundane level, a nut and bolt, or a
screw and screwdriver, illustrate pairs of tools fashioned to work together
to achieve some goal of their human user. The human programmers
might even give the robots heuristic strategies for anticipating each other’s
movements, and ﬁlling in from shared context information not actually
coded in the exchanged signals. This is getting to look pretty human-like.
It could happen, but not without a human programmer inventing it and
starting it oﬀ.
The case of high-level autistic people and people with Asperger syn-
drome is relevant here. Many of them have intact language but severe
diﬃculty with many aspects of theory of mind, including some that could
qualify as involving shared intentionality (Hobson 2002; Tomasello et al.
2005). This, I would claim, is a borderline case. High-functioning autists
have enough awareness of the mental states of others to enable them to
participate in conversational exchanges, especially where no metaphor
or irony is involved. They have enough shared intentionality to play the
language game at a literal, non-metaphorical and non-ironic level, but
lack higher levels of mind-reading such as those involved in detecting
irony. The most severe autists, on the other hand, have little or no language
ability. This conﬁrms the relationship between language and shared inten-
tionality. On the evolutionary question of whether shared intentionality
preceded the advent of language or vice versa, one should avoid oversim-
ple hypotheses such as are implicit in the ﬁrst part of Bickerton (2005)’s
title, ‘Language ﬁrst, then shared intentionality, then a beneﬁcent spiral’.
The beneﬁcent spiral, with degrees of language ability and disposition to
shared intentionality co-evolving, is a good idea, but if such a spiral is
320 The Origins of Meaning
traced backwards in time, the tiny beginnings of both co-evolving factors
would be so undeveloped in comparison to their modern counterparts
that we would not be talking about either in their fully ﬂedged modern
sense.
Could a system of learned arbitrary symbols, such as humans use,
evolve in a community where the individuals were not disposed to partici-
pate in shared tasks, having tacitly divined the intentions of others? I think
there is a distraction in Tomasello et al.’s example of the improbability
‘that two chimpanzees might spontaneously do something as simple as
carry something together’ (Tomasello et al. 2005, p. 685). There is an easily
learnt causal relationship between picking up one end of a log and the
subsequent position of the log. The arbitrariness of the symbols by which
humans achieve their communicative ends poses a harder problem. When
a human infant starts to imitate ﬁrst words, those words are not used
in any practical context like carrying a log with its mother. Only with a
great stretch might we say that the infant ‘understands’ what the mother
is trying to do and willingly ‘cooperates’ with her on that task. We might
conceive of the mother’s task as initiating the infant into the language
game. Do we want to say that the infant understands what its mother is
trying to do, and then cooperates in achieving the shared goal? I don’t
think so.
The ambiguity of the term I/intentionality rears its head here. For non-
philosophers, it most naturally means the capacity to do things intention-
ally, with a will, and some future goal in mind; it is derived in this sense
from intend as in I intend to go straight home. For philosophers, it has a
diﬀerent meaning, only very indirectly related to the ﬁrst. In this sense,
Intentionality is paraphrased by aboutness. Words are Intentional insofar
as they are about things in the world. Mental states are Intentional insofar
as they in some sense represent (are about) some situation in the world.
Tomasello et al. conﬂate these two senses of I/intentionality. They
gloss shared intentionality as participating ‘in activities involving joint
intentions and attention’ (Tomasello et al. 2005, p. 675). Sharing future
intentions to achieve some goal and sharing present attention to some
object are not the same thing. As Tomasello et al. emphasize, and as is
well known, normal babies are programmed to want to share experiences,
and this strong human infantile disposition leads them to imitate words
and to the ‘naming insight’ that words are about things. Human babies
clearly are innately disposed to shared Intentionality in the ‘aboutness’
sense of Intentionality.
Cooperation, Fair Play, and Trust in Primates 321
Could a human-like disposition to joint attention coupled with an
ability to learn names for things be present, while the other sense of
shared intentionality (disposition to collaborate in achievement of shared
goals) is absent? We could think up hypothetical examples, but in real life
Kanzi is a good example of both kinds of shared I/intentionality present
in a non-human, but to a lesser degree than in a human. Kanzi was not
explicitly taught his ﬁrst arbitrary symbols, but just picked them up, like
a human baby, though not as fast, and not as many. As an adult bonobo,
he uses symbols to tell his keepers what he wants, so he does understand
that expressing his own goals can get others to bring them about. This is
perhaps not quite the same as having a shared goal. And Kanzi can easily
follow instructions, like ‘put the water in the milk’, so in some sense he
participates in the achievement of an interlocutor’s goal. But there is a
great diﬀerence in degree between Kanzi’s and a human’s dispositions to
share experiences and goals. And Kanzi is a very humanized ape. Living
around humans has allowed him to acquire dispositions that some in
earlier generations would never have imagined possible in an ape.
But Kanzi is not human. This most humanized ape is still nowhere near
as spontaneously willing to join in social chat with others as humans.
Wild bonobos bond by grooming and play. Humans do it largely by
using learned codes with tens of thousands of words and complex rules
of combination to express propositions describing the world. Even the
sentences humans swap in idle chit-chat have descriptive content, like
today’s weather, or last night’s TV. To fully join the club of a human
community, without special allowances being made, a growing baby has
to learn the large vocabulary and the complex combinations. And human
babies are extremely well adapted to this task. Tomasello et al. include
several rather diﬀerent things within the meaning of their term shared
intentionality, but the key one, as far as the evolution of language is
concerned, is the human baby’s instinctive desire to join in the commun-
ity’s language game. Recall my distinction in the previous chapter (p. 270)
between communicative cooperation and material cooperation. Just enter-
ing into discourse in the same language is communicatively cooperative,
even though one’s utterances may be all materially uncooperative (like
protracted verbal rows in dysfunctional relationships). Tomasello et al.
include communicative cooperation within shared intentionality. ‘[T]he
whole point of the Sperber and Wilson analysis is that there are diﬀerent
levels of motivation involved, and that whatever the ultimate goal of the
speaker—even if it is for selﬁsh/deceptive reasons in telling someone to do
322 The Origins of Meaning
something—the speaker and hearer must cooperate for the message to be
received’ (Tomasello et al. 2005, p. 724).
It is this component of shared intentionality, an instinctive motivation
to join the language-using club and share its purposes, that marks a huge
diﬀerence in degree between human and non-human communication.
Altriciality, coupled with a long period of dependency and plasticity in
the social environment, would have promoted this. It is revealed in human
babies’ apparently ‘unintelligent’ tendency to imitate where imitation has
no other goal than to form a social bond, and to imitate rather than to
emulate where some goal exists.
9.3 fair play
Animals sometimes act as if they expect certain social rules to apply,
consistent with what humans would call fair sharing. And the behaviour
from which we infer this is often to the animal’s immediate disadvantage,
thus posing a challenge for some, but not all, of the evolutionary theories
surveyed in the last chapter. The theory most consistent with the pheno-
mena to be brieﬂy surveyed here is Strong Reciprocity (mentioned in the
previous chapter), which posits policing and punishment within a group.
In an experiment on punishment and cooperation within human
groups, Fehr and Gächter (2002) studied 240 students who, working in
groups of four, were each given a chance to ‘invest’ up to 20 monetary
units (MUs) in a group project. The rules were set so that a high individual
investment, while costing the individual, beneﬁted the group. Individuals
were free to invest however much they liked, making their decisions inde-
pendently of the simultaneous decisions of the other individuals in the
group. In one experimental condition, individuals could also punish each
other for low investment by imposing a ﬁne on the low investor. Punish-
ment did not beneﬁt the punisher directly, but in fact was costly to the
punisher, so this punishment was altruistic. In another condition, punish-
ment was not permitted. Cooperation in a group was deﬁned as the aver-
age of individuals’ investments in the group project. Cooperation declined
signiﬁcantly without punishment, and increased signiﬁcantly with pun-
ishment. ‘Here we show experimentally that the altruistic punishment of
defectors is a key motive for the explanation of cooperation. Altruistic
punishment means that individuals punish, although the punishment is
costly for them and yields no material gain. We show that cooperation
ﬂourishes if altruistic punishment is possible, and breaks down if it is ruled
out’ (Fehr and Gächter 2002, p. 137).
Cooperation, Fair Play, and Trust in Primates 323
As a possible non-human precursor to this kind of behaviour, I have
already noted Hauser (1992)’s study of macaques who punish discoverers
of food who keep their ﬁnds to themselves. ‘[S]ilent discoverers, when
detected, were often chased away from the food or aggressively attacked.
Similar results have also been observed in white-faced capuchins (Cebus
capucinus)’ (Egnor et al. 2006, p. 661).
Several primate species have been shown to object to another animal
getting a better reward than them. Their objection takes the form of
refusing to participate in a food-for-token exchange game with the experi-
menter. For example, an experimenter has trained monkeys to trade a
token (which the monkey already has) for an item of food. Then, with two
monkeys together, the experimenter rewards one monkey with a grape for
each token, and the other monkey with a piece of cucumber. Monkeys
prefer grapes to cucumber. After a while the monkey receiving cucumber
refuses to play the game any more, sometimes tossing either the token or
the cucumber aside in apparent anger. In refusing to participate in the
game, the animal actually suﬀers a loss, in getting no food at all, whereas
by continuing to play the game, it could at least have got some cucumber.
This experimental paradigm is known as ‘Inequity Aversion’ (IA). One
experiment was with capuchin monkeys, Cebus apella.
People judge fairness based both on the distribution of gains and on the
possible alternatives to a given outcome. Capuchin monkeys, too, seem to
measure reward in relative terms, comparing their own rewards with those
available, and their own eﬀorts with those of others. They respond negatively
to previously acceptable rewards if a partner gets a better deal.
(Brosnan and de Waal 2003, p. 299)1
In similar experiments with chimpanzees, Brosnan et al. (2005) also
found inequity aversion. Chimpanzees refused to participate in exchanges
when they saw that another animal was getting a better food reward. In
refusing to participate, they forfeited food themselves. They would have
been better oﬀ taking the lower-quality food, even though their partner
was receiving higher-quality food. So this behaviour is not simply selﬁsh.
One might describe it as petulant. Interestingly, however, this eﬀect was
only found among chimpanzees who had not forged long-lasting social
relationships. Animals from a more stable and long-lasting social group
were tolerant of others receiving better rewards.
1
Henrich (2004) has argued against a close parallel between this capuchin monkey
behaviour and human inequity aversion behaviour.
324 The Origins of Meaning
Much of the evolutionary theorizing about altruism discussed in the
previous chapter stems from economics, in which a dominant model has
assumed that individual agents always act rationally to maximize their
own economic beneﬁt. Human altruism clearly presents a problem for this
assumption, and this gave rise to the Reciprocal Altruism theory, devel-
oped in part by Robert Axelrod, a political scientist. Reciprocal Altruism,
as we have seen, meets with mixed success in explaining animal behaviour,
and further models, such as Strong Reciprocity (Gintis 2000; Henrich and
Boyd 2001), have been developed within the social sciences, but are not
yet much taken up by biologists. Strong Reciprocity is developed more
with humans in mind than some other theories of altruism, such as Kin
Selection.
Gintis et al. (2003) surveyed empirical results on humans showing that
they seldom, if ever, conform to the economist’s ideal of Homo economi-
cus, a rational agent acting purely out of self-interest.2
Instead, humans,
to varying degrees, depending on the culture, act as if they are conforming
to some conception of a fair social contract. Of the various experimental
games used to achieve these results, one called the ‘Ultimatum Game’ is
relatively easy to describe. Here, there are two players who know of each
other’s existence, but do not know each other. One player is given a sum
of money, say $10, and is told that he can oﬀer as much of it as he likes
to the other player. If the other player accepts what he is oﬀered, the ﬁrst
player gets to keep the rest. But (and here’s the catch) if the second player
chooses not to accept what he is oﬀered, then neither player gets anything.
Now a ‘fair’ oﬀer would be half, say $5, so that the players would split the
loot evenly. A purely self-interested oﬀer would be of the minimum, say
$1, so that the oﬀerer gets to keep $9. As second player, it always makes
(selﬁsh) sense to accept whatever oﬀer you receive, because if you don’t,
you’ll get nothing. The theory of self-interest predicts that the minumim
will always be oﬀered, and accepted.
However, when actually played, the self-interested outcome is never attained
and never even approximated. In fact, as many replications of this experiment
have documented, under varying conditions and with varying amounts of
money, proposers routinely oﬀer respondents very substantial amounts (50%
of the total generally being the modal oﬀer) and respondents frequently reject
2
Alan Grafen makes the point that ‘biology actually has a much stronger claim [than
economics] to the rational agent model—Darwinian natural selection does the optimising
behind the scenes, so that individuals act ‘as-if’ maximising. In economics, they rely on
individual rationality, which is poor’ (Grafen, personal communication).
Cooperation, Fair Play, and Trust in Primates 325
oﬀers below 30% (Camerer and Thaler, 1995; Güth and Tietz, 1990; Roth,
Prasnikar, Okuno-Fujiwara, and Zamir, 1991). (Gintis et al. 2003, p. 157)
Henrich et al. (2001) conducted this Ultimatum Game experiment, and
several others, ‘with subjects from ﬁfteen hunter gatherer, nomadic herd-
ing and other small-scale societies exhibiting a wide variety of economic
and cultural conditions’ (p. 73). They worked in twelve countries on four
continents. The two societies that conformed most closely to the Homo
economicus ideal were slash-and-burn horticulturalists: the Machiguenga
of Peru and the Tsimané of Bolivia. These typically made low oﬀers, and
there were virtually no rejections of oﬀers. But even with these people, the
mean and modal oﬀers were well above the minimum. The most salient
result was that ‘group-level diﬀerences in the structure of everyday social
interactions explain a substantial portion of the behavioral variation
across societies: the higher the degree of market integration and the higher
the payoﬀs to cooperation in the production of their livelihood, the greater
the level of cooperation in experimental games’ (Henrich et al. 2001,
p. 73).
In summary, there is evidence of a sense of fair play, of what is an equi-
table distribution of resources, in primates, including humans. Behaviour
conforming to this sense of fair play increases the closer we get to West-
ern everyday norms of commerce, as American undergraduates regularly
make the ‘fairest’ oﬀers in the Ultimatum Game. But humans living in
conditions far from Western commerce, such as the Machiguenga, also
partly display these tendencies, but without the elements of punishment
and rejection of behaviour not conforming to a ‘fair’ norm. These phe-
nomena are relevant to the evolution of language insofar as they show
a common psychosocial thread, from non-human primates to humans,
indicating tacit awareness of group norms of cooperative behaviour.
9.4 trust(-worthiness), groups, faces, and a hormone
Linguistic behaviour is typically trusting behaviour. As a speaker, you
trust the hearer not to use to your cost what you tell him. And as a hearer,
you believe or do what the speaker says. Trust by one party is an infer-
ence of trustworthiness in the other. Trusting behaviour and trustwor-
thiness are diﬀerent, yet obviously interdependent in a working society.
How do trust and trustworthiness arise, and what physical phenomena
correlate with them? As we will see in this brief section, shared group
membership and facial resemblance to the trusting person both enhance
326 The Origins of Meaning
the apparent trustworthiness of another, and there are speciﬁc hormones
which enhance trusting behaviour.
All the research on group membership, facial resemblance, and trust
involves humans. Much of the work is done in the context of economic
theories. It is diﬃcult to replicate such experiments with animals. This
human research plugs into discussions of sexual selection (cf. Chapter 8),
since trust is complexly related to sexual attraction, especially for long-
term relationships.
Glaeser et al. (2000) played experimental trust games with Harvard
undergraduates. In one such game, rather like some of the experimental
games described in the previous section, players could choose how much
real money to ‘invest’ in a partner, who might or might not give them a
fair return on their investment. One of their main conclusions was:
First, social connection strongly predicts trustworthiness and weakly predicts
trust. In particular, national and racial diﬀerences between partners strongly
predict a tendency to cheat one another.
Second, individual characteristics that relate to family status, social skill,
and charisma strongly predict one’s total ﬁnancial returns in the trust experi-
ment. These variables matter because people in our sample are less likely to
cheat individuals with these characteristics. (Glaeser et al. 2000, p. 840)
A similar trusting game was played by DeBruine (2002) with subjects
whose game partners were faces on a computer screen, rather than real
people. DeBruine computationally morphed the faces so that they resem-
bled or did not resemble the faces of the subjects themselves. Here again
one player had to choose whether to trust another player (a morphed face)
with money, or, taking the opposite role, whether to reward the face with
a decent return on his trusting investment. It was found that
Experimental subjects, who believed that they were playing against pictured
opponents while unaware that information from their own faces had been
incorporated into the ‘morphed’ faces of some of those supposed opponents,
trusted opponents who resembled themselves signiﬁcantly more than they
trusted other opponents, but did not reward trusting moves by their oppon-
ents diﬀerentially. These results were replicated in two independent groups of
subjects, using two distinct facial morphing procedures.
(DeBruine 2002, p. 1311)
Considering the evolutionary implications of this ﬁnding, DeBruine notes
that our ancestors, having no mirrors, had little idea what their own faces
looked like. So such trusting behaviour is likely to be based on either
resemblance to close genetic relatives (complementing Kin Selection
Cooperation, Fair Play, and Trust in Primates 327
theory) or on familiarity (complementing theories associating positive
social behaviour with shared group membership). In a later experiment
DeBruine (2005) found that
facial resemblance, a putative cue of relatedness, increased judgments of
trustworthiness but had no eﬀect on attractiveness in the context of a long-
term relationship and decreased attractiveness in the context of a short-term
relationship. Perceptions of trustworthiness were increased signiﬁcantly more
than perceptions of attractiveness for long-term or short-term relationships.
(DeBruine 2005, p. 921)
Recently, a discovery was made which is highly suggestive of the neu-
rochemical basis of trusting behaviour in social relationships, in both
humans and non-humans.
Here we show that intranasal administration of oxytocin, a neuro-peptide
that plays a key role in social attachment and aﬃliation in non-human mam-
mals, causes a substantial increase in trust among humans, thereby greatly
increasing the beneﬁts from social interactions. We also show that the eﬀect
of oxytocin on trust is not due to a general increase in the readiness to bear
risks. On the contrary, oxytocin speciﬁcally aﬀects an individual’s willingness
to accept social risks arising through interpersonal interactions. These results
concur with animal research suggesting an essential role for oxytocin as a
biological basis of prosocial approach behaviour.
(Kosfeld et al. 2005, p. 673)
The experiment Kosfeld et al. carried out involved an investment game, in
which one player (the ‘investor’) gave a sum of real money to a ‘trustee’
to invest. When invested by the trustee, the amount was always tripled by
the experimenter, simulating a good stock-market proﬁt. Now the trustee
was free to return any amount, from zero to the whole increased sum,
back to the original investor. The key thing is that the investor has no
guarantee that he will get any of his money back; he trusts the trustee
to give him a decent return. The trustee is unknown to the investor. In
these circumstances, how much would you invest? The amount you invest
is an index of your faith, or trust, in the trustee. Kosfeld et al. (2005)
ran this game in two conditions. In one condition the investor player
had taken oxytocin up his nose; in the other condition a placebo was
used. In the oxytocin condition, investors risked signiﬁcantly more, that is
they displayed more trusting behaviour. It was not the case that oxytocin
merely decreased risk aversion, as, in a parallel experiment, the amount
of money returned by the trustee was determined not by the trustee’s
decision, but at random. In this random condition, the risk to the investor
328 The Origins of Meaning
is the same as before. The diﬀerence is that in one case the investor knows
he is dealing with another person who will make a decision. In the random
condition, there was no diﬀerence between the amounts invested by the
oxytocin-treated investors and those who had received the placebo. See
also Zak et al. (2004) for a very similar report.
The signiﬁcance of this for the evolution of language is that an element
of trust is involved in entering into a linguistic exchange with another
person. An element of trust is involved in the baby’s instinctive imitation
of adult gestures and vocalizations. The strong instinctive desire to con-
form and to belong that we see in human babies may be physiologically
mediated by some hormone such as oxytocin, acting on speciﬁc brain
areas. A result of this kind has been obtained in rats. Moriceau and
Sullivan (2005) found that
hyper-functioning noradrenergic locus coeruleus (LC) enables pups to learn
rapid, robust preference for the caregiver. Conversely, a hypo-functional
amygdala appears to prevent the infant from learning aversions to the care-
giver. Adult LC and amygdala functional emergence correlates with sensitive
period termination. This study suggests the neonatal brain is not an immature
version of the adult brain but is uniquely designed to optimize attachment to
the caregiver. Although human attachment may not rely on identical circuitry,
the work reviewed here suggests a new conceptual framework in which to
explore human attachments. (p. 230)
The pro-social eﬀects of oxytocin on experimental animals are well
known. I will mention just a few studies. Carter (1998) surveys ‘existing
behavioral and neuroendocrine perspectives on social attachment and
love’: ‘Central neuropeptides, and especially oxytocin and vasopressin
have been implicated ...in social bonding’ (p. 779). After experiments on
rats, Uvnas-Moberg (1989) concluded: ‘Oxytocin released in response to
social stimuli may be part of a neuroendocrine substrate which underlies
the beneﬁts of positive social experiences’ (p. 819).
There are no magic bullets for human language. Chris Knight, while
enthusiastic about the oxytocin discoveries, has written (personal com-
munication):
Tracing it all back to a hormone reminds me of Chomsky, who wants to trace
the whole of language including even the semantic component to a box of
wires somewhere in the head. The wires are probably there in some sense,
but that’s not the whole story. An evolutionary account has to explain why
placing trust in mere words became an evolutionarily stable strategy in the
case of our species. To explain this, we have to explain how and why people
Cooperation, Fair Play, and Trust in Primates 329
had the time and energy to punish free-riders who abused that public trust.
In short, we have to explain how and why the rule of law became established
among our hunter-gatherer ancestors. That means doing everything within a
social and anthropological framework, among other frameworks.
To this my reply was that oxytocin came ﬁrst (e.g. in rats), and the rule
of law, undoubtedly related, came second. Human social and anthropo-
logical phenomena emerged from animal social behaviour. As should be
clear, I don’t propose to ‘trace it [language] all back to a hormone’, though
I believe this and other hormones had a role to play. But I share Knight’s
emphasis on the importance of trust in humans communicating with each
other in language, and the enforcement of social norms necessary to keep
this an evolutionarily stable strategy, as noted several times in this and the
preceding chapter.
9.5 wrapping up
To pull the material in the last two chapters together, here is where I get
(even more) speculative. We still have to explain the massive propositional
utility, and size, of languages. So far, we have a mutant species, proto-
humans, who are innately disposed to bond with each other by imitation
of meaningful gestures and vocalizations, and who show a high degree
of trust and regard for others. Furthermore, their life-history includes a
long period of dependency and cognitive plasticity. They have inherited
from their ancestors a largely innate, but partly learned, set of calls, of
crucial utility for survival and reproduction. The plasticity of the infants
allows the genetic component of these calls to diminish while the learned
component can maintain the system. This could be just drift, if the genetic
changes were entirely selectively neutral. But equally, it could be selective.
If learning picked up the slack or even improved over the rigidity of the
genetically determined system, then there could be positive selection to
reduce the contribution of the genetic component. This can be expressed
as the genetic determination changing from rigid to environmentally ﬂex-
ible.
In time this leads to an enlarged repertoire of learned conventionalized
meaningful calls, which simultaneously convey practical information and
group membership. The calls are taken seriously (e.g. believed and acted
upon) by members of the group because their conventionalized form
reliably signals group membership. By the evolution of Strong Reciprocity,
misusers or non-users of the group’s code are punished, for example by
330 The Origins of Meaning
ostracism. This keeps the group together as a cohesive social unit, which
can outcompete less cohesive groups because of the practical utility of
its communal conventional communicative code. Sustained competition
from other groups, playing catch-up in this same process, leads both to
enhancement of the code-acquisition mechanisms of infants and to the
growth in size, and therefore the referential scope, of the code itself.
These ideas are consistent with some recent models of language evolu-
tion, such as those of Hurford and Kirby (1999); Deacon (2003); Ritchie
and Kirby (2007), but they clearly need a lot more exploration. One phe-
nomenon that is probably crucially involved at the very beginning of the
evolutionary story of an emerging learned repertoire of conventionalized
meaningful calls is synaesthesia. The idea is that the earliest users of
such a simple repertoire would have exploited certain universal natural
synaesthetic connections between aspects of referents in the world, such
as shapes, and aspects of human vocal sounds, as suggested by Ramachan-
dran and Hubbard (2001). The standardization of a conventionalized
vocabulary across a group is actually now quite well understood, largely
due to a wave of computer simulations and experiments with human sub-
jects. Examples of the computer simulations are Hurford (1989); Oliphant
(1999); Steels (1999); Smith (2004), approximately implementing the sug-
gestions of an early philosophical study on the origins of convention by
Lewis (1969). Examples of experiments with human subjects are Fay et al.
(2005); Galantucci (2005). A full consideration of this work is given in the
sequel to this book.
C H A P T E R T E N
Epilogue and Prologue
We have seen a picture of apes with quite a lot going on their heads. They
are host to mental representations, I have argued, with the essential basic
structure of human propositions, namely predicate-argument structure.
The argument slot is instantiated not as a term with any permanent
content, but as a variable, which can be applied to any particular object of
attention, whatever the passing show presents that draws the attention of
the animal. The animal can attend to up to about four objects at a time,
tracking them all and binding their properties to them. These properties
are, in the main, categorically distinct, and constitute the proto-predicates
of the ape’s view of the world. An ape can attend both to the global prop-
erties of a scene and to the local properties of the objects participating in
it. The global properties can be seen as expressing relationships between
the participant objects. Thus the ape’s mental representations of the world
have two levels, the global and the local, represented in the box notation
that I have developed as an outer box and one or more (up to about
four) inner boxes. Interpretations of the proto-predicates in the boxes are
relative to the context provided by all the other proto-predicates in the
representation. Thus what seems big in one scene might seem small in
another, and what seems to be the most active participant in one scene, its
proto-Agent, may seem more passive in another scene, and be less likely
to be judged as a proto-Agent. Some proto-predicates are less susceptible
to this contextual relativity than others. Most of the time, a leopard is a
leopard is a leopard.
These mental pictures of the world are most vividly triggered by percep-
tion and action. While an ape is attending to a scene, its structure is most
vividly present to its mind, partially structured top-down by the animal’s
selective attention to particular objects and particular properties of theirs,
in preference to other objects and properties, which are not attended to.
332 The Origins of Meaning
To a limited extent, animals are capable of bringing scenes to mind in the
absence of direct perception. Animals can plan and remember, and can
make limited inferences over mentally represented scenes. Though made
familiar by perception, and instantiated in the brain by sensory-motor
‘functional clusters’ (Gallese and Lakoﬀ 2005), the mental representations
of immediately pre-linguistic creatures can be brought to mind during acts
of planning and remembering. To this extent, they are cognitive, as well
as perceptual, representations. Some animals show the faint glimmerings
of episodic memory, a well-developed faculty in humans, by which non-
current scenes and events can be brought to mind. Many animals are
capable of entertaining somewhat abstract relations and properties, such
as same/different and opposite. Evidence of these can be elicited in
experimental situations.
It seems likely that the mental lives of animals in the wild seldom
involve such abstract predicates; even more abstractly, properties-of-
properties and relations-between-relations, are likely only to be available
after some language training, or training with language-like objects, by
humans. The semantic predicate-argument structure attributed to animals
is emphatically not to be confused with any linguistic structure, such as
the Subject-Predicate structure of sentences. It is just unfortunate that
the term predicate is ambiguous, applying to a structural constituent of
a sentence, and to items in the vocabulary of a logical language only
indirectly related to language structure.
The pre-linguistic mental representations so far discussed are all acti-
vated in individual heads and ﬁnd no outlet (as yet in the story) in public
communication of any kind. Pre-linguistic animals can, in two separate
and very limited ways, communicate to others about various states of the
world. The largely innate alarm calls of vervet monkeys and many other
species are one way.
The limited ability to make and interpret deictic pointing gestures is the
other way. Pointing is almost totally absent in the wild, and is brought
out mainly in conditions of captivity and interaction with cooperative
humans. In these very limited capacities of animals we can see the faint
beginnings of communicative reference. Apes have rich mental lives, but
keep their pictures of the world to themselves, like all other animals
besides humans. Only humans tell each other in detail about events and
scenes in the world. And this is something of an evolutionary puzzle,
because giving information away would seem prima facie to be against
the individual interests of the information-giver.
Epilogue and Prologue 333
Evolutionary theory has come up with a number of solutions to the rid-
dle of why humans should, in general, act relatively altruistically, with this
(apparent) altruism manifested saliently in language. No one theory on
its own, such as Kin Selection, Reciprocal Altruism, or Sexual Selection,
can adequately explain the unique human characteristic of freely giving
information in such structurally complex ways as we do every day with
language. A complex egalitarian social structure with shifting alliances,
some degree of monogamy and equality between the sexes, and extended
parental care of the young provides the most hospitable environment in
which group-wide communicative codes can come to be adopted. Some
degree of understanding of other minds is also required; some very limited
evidence (Hare et al. 2001) has only recently become available showing
that in some circumstances, a chimpanzee can know what another animal
knows. But this is not enough, and I have adopted Tomasello et al. (2005)’s
concept of shared intentionality as a key ingredient of humans’ striking
willingness to play complex language games with each other. This involves
a degree of trust, a social attitude which is particularly well developed in
humans. Our ape cousins have not evolved to exhibit shared intention-
ality or the appropriate degree of trust paving the evolutionary way for
language.
We have reached a watershed. As soon as the breakthrough was made
for animals to communicate their thoughts relatively freely to others, a
cascade of other innovations were selected, designed to make the transfer
of information more eﬀective, and allowing humans to enrich their mental
representations by thinking about the representations themselves, in what
Quine (1960) has called ‘semantic ascent’. This cascade of consequences
will be the topic of Volume 2. In it we will see examples of the evolutionary
force of self-organization at work. Given creatures with a disposition to
transmit messages to each other, there are pressures for these messages to
become structured in particular ways, so as to be most easily learned and
used by the creatures concerned. In this way, as will be seen in Volume
2, phonological structure and morphosyntactic structure evolved. In a
co-evolutionary arms race, human capacities for eﬃcient processing of
these structures co-evolved with increasing complexity of the structures
themselves.
I hope that when you have read the present volume, Volume 2 will be
available or on the way, and that you will have and appetite to read it. For
the present, thank you for joining me this far.
Bibliography
Abbott, B. (1995). Thinking without English. Behavior and Philosophy 23, 47–52.
(2002). Deﬁniteness and proper names: some bad news for the description theory.
Journal of Semantics 19, 191–201.
Agnetta, B., B. Hare, and M. Tomasello (2000). Cues to food location that domestic dogs
(Canis familiaris) of diﬀerent ages do and do not use. Animal Cognition 3, 107–112.
Aich, H., R. Moos-Heilen, and E. Zimmerman (1990). Vocalizations of adult gelada
baboons (Theropithecus gelada): acoustic structure and behavioral context. Folia Prima-
tologica 55, 109–132.
Alcock, J. (1984). Animal Behavior: An Evolutionary Approach. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer
Associates, Inc.
Alexander, R. D. (1974). The evolution of social behavior. Annual Review of Ecological
Systems 5, 325–383.
Allen, C. (2006). Transitive inference in animals: reasoning or conditioned associations?
In S. Hurley and M. Nudds (eds.), Rational Animals?, pp. 175–185. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
and M. D. Hauser (1991). Concept attribution in nonhuman animals: theoretical
and methodological problems in ascribing complex mental processes. Philosophy of
Science 58, 221–240. (Repr. in Readings in Animal Cognition, ed. Marc Bekoﬀ and Dale
Jamieson, pp. 47–62, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press (1996).
Allison, A. C. (1955). Aspects of polymorphism in man. Cold Spring Harbor Symposium
on Quantitative Biology 20, 239–255.
(1964). Polymorphism and natural selection in human populations. Cold Spring Har-
bor Symposium on Quantitative Biology 29, 139–149.
Allwood, J. and P. Gärdenfors (eds.) (1999). Cognitive Semantics: Meaning and Cognition.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Anderson, J. R. and R. W. Mitchell (1999). Macaques but not lemurs co-orient visually
with humans. Folia Primatologica 70, 17–22.
Arbib, M. A. (2005). From monkey-like action recognition to human language: an
evolutionary framework for neurolinguistics. Behavioral and Brain Sciences 28(2),
105–125.
Arcadi, A. C. (1996). Phrase structure of wild chimpanzee pant-hoots: patterns of produc-
tion and interpopulation variability. American Journal of Primatology 39, 159–178.
(2000). Vocal responsiveness in male wild chimpanzees: implications for the evolution
of language. Journal of Human Evolution 39(2), 205–223.
Aristotle (c. 350 bc). Categoriae. In R. McKeon (ed.), The Basic Works of Aristotle, trans.
E. M. Edghill, pp. 7–37. New York: Random House (1941).
336 Bibliography
Armstrong, D. F., W. C. Stokoe, and S. E. Wilcox (1995). Gesture and the Nature of
Language. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Armstrong, D. M. (1989). Universals: An Opinionated Introduction. Boulder, CO: Westview
Press.
Austin, J. L. (1962). How to Do Things with Words. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University
Press.
Axelrod, R. (1984). The Evolution of Cooperation. New York: Basic Books.
(1997). The Complexity of Co-operation. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
and W. Hamilton (1981). The evolution of cooperation. Science 211, 1390–1396.
R. A. Hammons, and A. Grafen (2004). Altruism via kin-selection strategies that rely
on arbitrary tags with which they co-evolve. Evolution: International Journal of Organic
Evolution 58(8), 1833–1838.
Baillargeon, R. (1995). Physical reasoning in infancy. In M. Gazzaniga (ed.), The Cognitive
Neurosciences. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Baldwin, D. (1991). Infants’ contribution to the achievement of joint reference. Child
Development 62, 875–890.
(1993). Early referential understanding: infants’ ability to recognise referential acts for
what they are. Developmental Psychology 29(5), 832–843.
Barnard, A. (1978). Universal systems of kin categorization. African Studies 37, 69–81.
Baron-Cohen, S., A. Cox, G. Baird, J. Swettenham, N. Nightingale, K. Morgan, A. Drew,
and T. Charman (1996). Psychological markers of autism at 18 months of age in a large
population. British Journal of Psychiatry 168, 158–163.
A. M. Leslie, and U. Frith (1985). Does the autistic child have a ‘theory of mind’?
Cognition 21, 37–46.
Barrett, H. C. (2001). On the functional origins of essentialism. Mind and Society 3(2),
1–30.
(2004). Cognitive development and the understanding of animal behavior. In B. J. Ellis
and D. F. Bjorklund (eds.), Origins of the Social Mind: Evolutionary Psychology and Child
Development, pp. 438–467. New York: Guilford Publications.
(2005). Adaptations to predators and prey. In D. M. Buss (ed.), The Handbook of
Evolutionary Psychology, pp. 200–223. New York: Wiley.
and T. Behne (2005). Children’s understanding of death as the cessation of agency: a
test using sleep versus death. Cognition 96(2), 93–108.
Barsalou, L. W. (1999). Perceptual symbol systems. Behavioral and Brain Sciences 22(4),
577–660.
Barth, J., J. E. Reaux, and D. J. Povinelli (2005). Chimpanzees’ (Pan troglodytes) use of gaze
cues in object-choice tasks: diﬀerent methods yield diﬀerent results. Animal Cognition 8,
84–92.
Barwise, K. J. (1999). Logic. In R. A. Wilson and F. Keil (eds.), The MIT Encyclopedia of
the Cognitive Sciences, pp. 482–484. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Bates, E., B. O’Connell, and C. Shore (1987). Language and communication in infancy. In
J. Osofsky (ed.), Handbook of Infant Development, pp. 149–203. New York: Wiley.
Beauquin, C. and F. Gaillard (1998). Responses of class R3 retinal ganglion cells of
the frog to moving conﬁgurational bars: eﬀect of the stimulus velocity. Comparative
Biochemistry and Physiology: Part A, Molecular and Integrative Physiology 119(1), 387–
393.
Behne, T., M. Carpenter, J. Call, and M. Tomasello (2005). Unwilling versus unable: infants’
understanding of intentional action. Developmental Psychology 41(2), 328–337.
Bellugi, U., Z. Lai, and P. Wang (1997). Language, communication, and neural systems
in Williams Syndrome. Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities Research
Reviews 3, 334–342.
Bibliography 337
P. Wang, and T. L. Jernigan (1994). Williams syndrome: an unusual neuropsy-
chological proﬁle. In S. Broman and J. Grafman (eds.), Atypical Cognitive Deﬁcits
in Developmental Disorders: Implications for Brain Function, pp. 23–56. Hillsdale, NJ:
Erlbaum.
Beltman, J. B., P. Haccou, and C. ten Cate (2004). Learning and colonization of new niches:
a ﬁrst step toward speciation. Evolution 58(1), 35–46.
Benard, J. and M. Giurfa (2004). A test of transitive inferences in free-ﬂying honeybees:
unsuccessful performance due to memory constraints. Learning and Memory 11(3), 328–
336.
Bennett, J. (1988). Events and their Names. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Bergen, J. R. and B. Julesz (1983). Parallel versus serial processing in rapid pattern discrim-
ination. Nature 303, 696–698.
Bergman, T. J., J. C. Beehner, D. L. Cheney, and R. M. Seyfarth (2003). Hierarchical
classiﬁcation by rank and kinship in baboons. Science 302, 1234–1236.
Bergstrom, C. T. and L. A. Real (2000). Towards a theory of mutual mate choice: lessons
from two-sided matching. Evolutionary Ecology Research 2, 493–508.
Bermejo, M. and A. Omedes (1999). Preliminary vocal repertoire and vocal communication
of wild bonobos (Pan paniscus) at Lilungu (Democratic Republic of Congo). Folia
Primatologica 70, 328–357.
Bermúdez, J. L. (2003). Thinking without Words. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Bertram, B. C. R. (1976). Kin selection in lions and in evolution. In P. P. G. Bateson and
R. A. Hinde (eds.), Growing Points in Ethology, pp. 281–301. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Bickerton, D. (1990). Language and Species. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
(1995). Language and Human Behaviour. London: UCL Press.
(2005). Language ﬁrst, then shared intentionality, then a beneﬁcent spiral. Behavioral
and Brain Sciences 28, 691–692.
(2007). Language evolution: a brief guide for linguists. Lingua 117,
510–526.
Biebach, H., M. Gordijn, and J. R. Krebs (1989). Time-and-place learning by garden
warblers, Sylvia borin. Animal Behaviour 37(3), 353–360.
Bihrle, A. M., U. Bellugi, D. Delis, and S. Marks (1989). Seeing either the forest or the trees:
dissociation in visuospatial processing. Brain and Cognition 11(1), 37–49.
Blaschke, M. and G. Ettlinger (1987). Pointing as an act of social communication by
monkeys. Animal Behaviour 35, 1520–1523.
Bodamer, M. D. and R. A. Gardner (2002). How cross-fostered chimpanzees (Pan
troglodytes) initiate and maintain conversations. Journal of Comparative Psychol-
ogy 116(1), 12–26.
Boehm, C. H. (1993). Egalitarian behavior and reverse dominance hierarchies. Current
Anthropology 34, 227–254.
Boesch, C. (2005). Joint cooperative hunting among wild chimpanzees: taking natural
observations seriously. Behavioral and Brain Sciences 28, 692–693.
Bond, A. B., A. C. Kamil, and R. P. Balda (2003). Social complexity and transitive inference
in corvids. Animal Behaviour 65, 479–487.
Bonda, E., M. Petrides, D. Ostry, and A. Evans (1996). Speciﬁc involvement of human
parietal systems and the amygdala in the perception of biological motion. Journal of
Neuroscience 16(11), 3737–3744.
Bonvillian, J. D. and F. G. P. Patterson (1999). Early sign-language acquisition: compar-
isons between children and gorillas. In S. T. Parker, R. W. Mitchell, and H. L. Miles
(eds.), The Mentalities of Gorillas and Orangutans: Comparative Perspectives, pp. 240–
264. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
338 Bibliography
Borer, H. (2005). The Normal Course of Events. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Boroditsky, L. (2000). Metaphoric structuring: understanding time through spatial
metaphors. Cognition 75(1), 1–28.
Bouchard, T. J. (1994). Genes, environment and personality. Science 264, 1700–
1701.
Boutsen, L. and G. W. Humphreys (1999). Axis-alignment aﬀects perceptual grouping:
evidence from simultanagnosia. Cognitive Neuropsychology 16(7), 655–672.
Bowles, S. and D. Posel (2005). Genetic relatedness predicts South African migrant workers’
remittances to their families. Nature 434, 380–383.
Boyd, R. and P. J. Richerson (1988). The evolution of reciprocity in sizable groups. Journal
of Theoretical Biology 132, 337–356.
and P. J. Richerson (1992). Punishment allows the evolution of cooperation (or any-
thing else) in sizable groups. Ethology and Sociobiology 13, 171–195.
Boysen, S. T. and G. G. Berntson (1995). Responses to quantity-perceptual versus cogni-
tive mechanisms in chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). Journal of Experimental Psychology:
Animal Behavior Processes 21(1), 82–86.
G. G. Berntson, M. B. Hannan, and J. T. Cacioppo (1996). Quantity-based interfer-
ence and symbolic representations in chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). Journal of Experi-
mental Psychology: Animal Behavior Processes 22(1), 76–86.
Brannon, E. M. and H. S. Terrace (2000). Representation of the numerosities 1-9 by rhe-
sus macaques (Macaca mulatta). Journal of Experimental Psychology: Animal Behavior
Processes 26(1), 31–49.
Bräuer, J., J. Call, and M. Tomasello (2005). All great ape species follow gaze to
distant locations and around barriers. Journal of Comparative Psychology 119(2),
145–154.
Bredart, S., T. Brennen, and T. Valentine (1997). Dissociations between the processing of
proper and common names. Cognitive Neuropsychology 14(2), 209–217.
Bregman, A. (1990). Auditory Scene Analysis. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Brockmann, H. J. (1984). The evolution of social behaviour in insects. In J. R. Krebs and
N. B. Davies (eds.), Behavioural Ecology: An Evolutionary Approach (2nd edn.), pp. 340–
361. Oxford: Blackwell Scientiﬁc Publications.
Brosnan, S. F. and F. B. M. de Waal (2002). Regulation of vocal output by chimpanzees
ﬁnding food in the presence or absence of an audience. Evolution of Communication 4(2),
211–224.
and F. B. M de Waal (2003). Monkeys reject unequal pay. Nature 425, 297–299.
H. C. Schiﬀ, and F. B. M. de Waal (2005). Tolerance for inequity may increase
with social closeness in chimpanzees. Proceedings of the Royal Society, Series B 272,
253–258.
Brown, C. H. (1982). Auditory localization and primate vocal behavior. In C. T. Snow-
don, C. H. Brown, and M. R. Petersen (eds.), Primate Communication, pp. 144–164.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Brown, P. and S. Levinson (1987). Politeness: Some Universals in Language Usage. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
Brownell, C. A., S. Nichols, and M. Svetlova (2005). Early development of shared inten-
tionality with peers. Behavioral and Brain Sciences 28, 693–694.
Buckingham, G., L. M. DeBruine, A. C. Little, L. L. Welling, C. A. Conway, B. P. Tidde-
man, and B. C. Jones (2006). Visual adaptation to masculine and feminine faces inﬂu-
ences generalized preferences and perceptions of trustworthiness. Evolution and Human
Behavior 27(5), 381–389.
Burge, T. (1973). Reference and proper names. Journal of Philosophy 70, 425–439.
Bibliography 339
Burgess, N. (2002). The hippocampus, space, and viewpoints in episodic memory. Quarterly
Journal of Experimental Psychology 55A(4), 1057–1080.
Burling, R. (2005). The Talking Ape: How Language Evolved. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Butterworth, G. (2003). Pointing is the Royal Road to language for babies. In S. Kita
(ed.), Pointing: Where Language, Culture, and Cognition Meet, pp. 9–33. Mahwah, NJ:
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
F. Franco, B. McKenzie, L. Graupner, and B. Todd (2002). Dynamic aspects of visual
event perception and the production of pointing by human infants. British Journal of
Developmental Psychology 20, 1–24.
Butterworth, G. E. and P. Morissette (1996). Onset of pointing and the acquisition of
language in infancy. Journal of Reproductive and Infant Psychology 14, 219–231.
Buzsaki, G. (1998). Memory consolidation during sleep: a neurophysiological perspective.
Journal of Sleep Research 7, Supplement 1, 17–23.
Byrne, R. W. (1995). The Thinking Ape: Evolutionary Origins of Intelligence. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
(1997). What’s the use of anecdotes? In R. W. Mitchell, N. S. Thompson, and L. Miles
(eds.), Anthropomorphism, Anecdotes, and Animals: The Emperor’s New Clothes?, pp.
134–150. Lincoln, NE: University of Nebraska Press.
(1998). So much easier to attack straw men. Behavioral and Brain Sciences 21, 116–117.
and N. Corp (2004). Neocortex size predicts deception rate in primates. Proceedings
of the Royal Society of London, Series B (published online).
and A. Whiten (1988). Machiavellian Intelligence: Social Expertise and the Evolution
of Intellect in Monkeys, Apes and Humans. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
and A. Whiten (1992). Cognitive evolution in primates: evidence from tactical decep-
tion. Man NS 27(3), 609–627.
Call, J. (2006). Descartes’ two errors: reason and reﬂection in the great apes. In S. Hurley
and M. Nudds (eds.), Rational Animals?, pp. 219–234. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
B. Agnetta, and M. Tomasello (2000). Cues that chimpanzees do and do not use to
ﬁnd hidden objects. Animal Cognition 3, 23–34.
B. Hare, M. Carpenter, and M. Tomasello (2004). ‘Unwilling’ versus ‘unable’: chim-
panzees’ understanding of human intentional action. Developmental Science 7, 488–498.
Hare, and M. Tomasello (1998). Chimpanzee gaze following in an object-choice task.
Animal Cognition 1, 89–99.
and M. Tomasello (1994). Production and comprehension of referential pointing by
orangutans (Pongo Pygmaeus). Journal of Comparative Psychology 108(4), 307–317.
and M. Tomasello (2005). What chimpanzees know about seeing, revisited: an expla-
nation of the third kind. In N. Eilan, C. Hoerl, T. McCormack, and J. Roessler (eds.),
Joint Attention: Communication and Other Minds, pp. 45–64. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Calvin, W. and D. Bickerton (2000). Lingua Ex Machina: Reconciling Darwin and Chomsky
with the Human Brain. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Camaioni, L., M. C. Caselli, E. Longobardi, and V. Volterra (1991). A parent report
instrument for early language assessment. First Language 11, 345–360.
Camerer, C. and R. Thaler (1995). Ultimatums, dictators, and manners. Journal of Eco-
nomic Perspectives 9, 209–219.
Caramazza, A. (1998). The interpretation of semantic category-speciﬁc deﬁcits: what do
they reveal about the organization of conceptual knowledge in the brain? Neurocase 4,
265–272.
Carnap, R. (1937). The Logical Syntax of Language. London: Routledge and Kegan Paul.
(1942). Introduction to Semantics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
340 Bibliography
Carnap, R. (1958). Introduction to Symbolic Logic and its Applications. New York: Dover
Publications.
Carrasco, M. and Y. Yeshurun (1998). The contribution of covert attention to the set-size
and eccentricity eﬀects in visual search. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human
Perception and Performance 24(2), 673–692.
Carruthers, P. (2003). Monitoring without metacognition. Behavioral and Brain Sci-
ences 26(3), 242–243.
Carstairs-McCarthy, A. (1999). The Origins of Complex Language. Oxford: Oxford Univer-
sity Press.
Carter, C. S. (1998). Neuroendocrine perspectives on social attachment and love. Psy-
choneuroendocrinology 23(8), 779–818.
Cerella, J. (1980). The pigeon’s analysis of pictures. Pattern Recognition 12, 1–6.
(1986). Pigeons and perceptrons. Pattern Recognition 19, 431–438.
Chalmeau, R. (1994). Do chimpanzees cooperate in a learning task? Primates 35, 385–392.
and A. Gallo (1996). What chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) learn in a cooperative task.
Primates 37, 39–47.
K. Lardeux, P. Brandibas, and A. Gallo (1997). Cooperative problem solving by
orangutans, Pongo pygmaeus. International Journal of Primatology 18, 23–32.
Chalmers, N. (1968). The visual and vocal communication of free living mangabeys in
Uganda. Folia Primatologica 9, 258–280.
Chan, W. P., F. Prete, and M. Dickinson (1998). Visual input to the the eﬀerent control
system of a ﬂy’s ‘gyroscope’. Science 280, 289–292.
Cheney, D. and R. Seyfarth (1990). How Monkeys See the World: Inside the Mind of Another
Species. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.
Cheney, D. M. and R. M. Seyfarth (1999). Recognition of other individuals’ social rela-
tionships by female baboons. Animal Behaviour 58, 67–75.
Cheng, M. (1992). For whom does the female dove coo? A case for the role of vocal self-
stimulation. Animal Behaviour 43, 1035–1044.
Cherry, E. C. (1953). Some experiments on the recognition of speech with one and with two
ears. Journal of the Acoustical Society of America 25, 975–979.
Chomsky, N. (1970). Remarks on nominalization. In A. Jacobs and P. Rosenbaum (eds.),
Readings in Transformational Grammar, pp. 184–221. Waltham, MA: Ginn and Co.
(1975). Reﬂections on Language. Glasgow: Fontana/Collins.
(1980). Rules and Representations. London: Basil Blackwell.
(1995). The Minimalist Program. Current Studies in Linguistics, Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Churchland, P. S. (1986). Neurophilosophy: Toward a Uniﬁed Science of the Mind/Brain.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Clark, A. (2000). A Theory of Sentience. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
(2003). Natural-Born Cyborgs: Minds, Technologies, and the Future of Human Intelli-
gence. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
(2004). Feature-placing and proto-objects. Philosophical Psychology 17(4), 451–
477.
Clayton, N. S., T. J. Bussey, N. J. Emery, and A. Dickinson (2003). Prometheus to
Proust: the case for behavioural criteria for mental ‘time travel’. Trends in Cognitive
Sciences 7(10), 436–437.
and A. Dickinson (1998). Episodic-like memory during cache recovery by scrub jays.
Nature 395, 272–274.
D. Griﬃths, N. Emery, and A. Dickinson (2001). Elements of episodic-like memory
in animals. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London B 356(1413), 1483–
1491.
Bibliography 341
J. C. Reboreda, and A. Kacelnik (1997). Seasonal changes in hippocampus volume in
parasitic cowbirds. Behavioural Processes 41(3), 237–243.
Cleland, A. A. and M. J. Pickering (2003). The use of lexical and syntactic information
in language production: evidence from the priming of noun-phrase structure. Journal of
Memory and Language 49, 214–230.
Clements, K. and D. W. Stephens (1995). Testing models of non-kin cooperation: mutual-
ism and the Prisoner’s Dilemma. Animal Behaviour 50, 527–535.
Clutton-Brock, T. H. and P. H. Harvey (1976). Evolutionary rules and primate societies.
In P. P. G. Bateson and R. A. Hinde (eds.), Growing Points in Ethology, pp. 185–237.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Coleman, M. N. and C. F. Ross (2004). Primate auditory diversity and its inﬂuence on
hearing performance. The Anatomical Record. Part A. Discoveries in Molecular, Cellular,
and Evolutionary Biology 281(1), 1123–1137.
Collins, S. A. and C. Missing (2003). Vocal and visual attractiveness are related in women.
Animal Behaviour 65, 997–1004.
Cook, R., M. Brown, and D. Riley (1983). Flexible memory processing by rats: use of
prospective and retrospective information. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Animal
Behavior Processes 11, 453–469.
Cook, R. G., K. K. Cavoto, and B. R. Cavoto (1995). Same–diﬀerent texture discrimination
and concept learning by pigeons. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Animal Behavior
Processes 21, 253–260.
and J. Wixted (1997). Same–diﬀerent texture discrimination in pigeons: testing com-
peting models of discrimination and stimulus integration. Journal of Experimental Psy-
chology: Animal Behavior Processes 23, 401–416.
Corballis, M. (2002). From Hand to Mouth: The Origins of Language. Princeton: Princeton
University Press.
Costa, P. T., Jr. and R. R. McCrae (1992). Four ways the ﬁve factors are basic. Personality
and Individual Diﬀerences 13, 653–665.
Coussi-Korbel, S. and D. M. Fragaszy (1995). On the relation between social dynamics and
social learning. Animal Behaviour 50, 1441–1453.
Cowan, N. (2001). The magical number 4 in short-term memory: a reconsideration of
mental storage capacity. Behavioral and Brain Sciences 24(1), 87–114.
Cox, C. R. and B. J. LeBoeuf (1977). Female incitation of male competition: a mechanism
in sexual selection. American Naturalist 111, 317–335.
Craik, K. (1943). The Nature of Explanation. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Crockford, C., I. Herbinger, L. Vigilant, and C. Boesch (2004). Wild chimpanzees
produce group-speciﬁc calls: a case for vocal learning? Ethology 110, 221–
243.
Cronin, K. A., A. V. Kurian, and C. T. Snowdon (2005). Cooperative problem solv-
ing in a cooperatively breeding primate (Saguinus oedipus). Animal Behaviour 69(1),
133–142.
Cruse, D. A. (1973). Some thoughts on agentivity. Journal of Linguistics 9, 11–23.
Cunningham, E. J. A. and T. R. Birkhead (1998). Sex roles and sexual selection. Animal
Behaviour 56(6), 1311–1321.
Cynx, J. and S. J. Clark (1993). Ethological foxes and cognitive hedgehogs. Behavioral and
Brain Sciences 16(4), 756–757.
Daly, M. and M. Wilson (1982). Homicide and kinship. American Anthropologist 84, 372–
378.
Damasio, A. R. (1989). Time-locked multiregional retroactivation: a systems-level
proposal for the neural substrates of recall and recognition. Cognition 33,
25–62.
342 Bibliography
Damasio, H., T. Grabowski, D. Tranel, R. D. Hichwa, and A. R. Damasio (1996). A neural
basis for lexical retrieval. Nature 380, 499–505.
D’Amato, M. R. and M. Colombo (1985). Auditory matching to sample in monkeys (Cebus
apella). Animal Learning and Behavior 13, 375–382.
and M. Colombo (1989). On the limits of the matching concept in monkeys (Cebus
apella). Journal of the Experimental Analysis of Behavior 52(3), 225–236.
and P. van Sant (1988). The person concept in monkeys (Cebus apella). Journal of
Experimental Psychology. Animal Behavior Processes 14, 43–55.
Darwin, C. (1871). The Descent of Man, and Selection in Relation to Sex. London: John
Murray. (Repr. Princeton, NJ: by Princeton University Press (1981).)
(1881). The Formation of Vegetable Mould, through the Action of Worms. London:
John Murray.
Davidson, D. (1967). The logical form of action sentences. In N. Rescher (ed.), The Logic
of Decision and Action, pp. 81–95. Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh Press. (Repr.
in D. Davidson, Essays on Actions and Events, pp. 105–123. Oxford: Clarendon Press
1980.)
(1975). Thought and talk. In S. Gutenplan (ed.), Mind and Language, pp. 7–23.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
(1982). Rational animals. Dialectica 36, 318–327.
(2001a). The emergence of thought. In D. Davidson (ed.), Subjective, Intersubjective,
Objective, pp. 123–134. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
(2001b). The myth of the subjective. In D. Davidson (ed.), Subjective, Intersubjective,
Objective, pp. 39–52. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
(2004). What thought requires. In D. Davidson (ed.), Problems of Rationality. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Dawkins, R. (1976). The Selﬁsh Gene. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
de Blois, S., M. Novak, and M. Bond (1998). Object permanence in orangutans (Pongo pyg-
maeus) and squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus). Journal of Comparative Psychology 112,
137–152.
de Waal, F. B. M. (1989). Food sharing and reciprocal obligations among chimpanzees.
Journal of Human Evolution 18, 433–459.
(1996). Good Natured: The Origins of Right and Wrong in Humans and Other Animals.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
(1998). Chimpanzee Politics: Power and Sex among Apes (rev. edn.). Baltimore, MD:
Johns Hopkins University Press.
and D. L. Johanowicz (1993). Modiﬁcation of reconciliation behavior through
social experience: an experiment with two macaque species. Child Development 64,
897–908.
Deacon, T. (1997). The Symbolic Species. London: Penguin.
(2003). Multilevel selection in a complex adaptive system: the problem of language
origins. In B. Weber and D. Depew (eds.), Evolution and Learning: The Baldwin Eﬀect
Reconsidered, pp. 81–106. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
DeBruine, L. M. (2002). Facial resemblance enhances trust. Proceedings of the Royal
Society: B (Biological Sciences) 269, 1307–1312.
(2005). Trustworthy but not lust-worthy: context-speciﬁc eﬀects of facial resemblance.
Proceedings of the Royal Society: B (Biological Sciences) 272, 919–922.
Dehaene, S. (1997). The Number Sense. New York: Oxford University Press.
and L. Cohen (1994). Dissociable mechanisms of subitizing and counting: neuropsy-
chological evidence from simultanagnosis patients. Journal of Experimental Psychology:
Human Perception and Performance 20(5), 958–975.
Bibliography 343
G. Dehaene-Lambertz, and L. Cohen (1998). Abstract representations of numbers in
the animal and human brain. Trends in Neuroscience 21(8), 355–361.
Dennett, D. (1991). Granny’s campaign for safe science. In B. Loewer and G. Rey (eds.),
Meaning in Mind: Fodor and his Critics, pp. 87–94. Oxford: Blackwell.
(1996). Kinds of Minds. London: Weidenfeld and Nicolson.
(2003a). Beyond beanbag semantics. Behavioral and Brain Sciences 26(6), 673–674.
(2003b). Freedom Evolves. London: Penguin Books.
Dennett, D. C. (1995). Darwin’s Dangerous Idea: Evolution and the Meanings of Life.
London: Penguin Books.
Deputte, B. L. (1982). Duetting in male and female songs of the white-cheeked gibbon
(Hylobates concolor leucogenys). In C. T. Snowdon, C. H. Brown, and M. R. Petersen
(eds.), Primate Communication, pp. 67–93. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Deruelle, C. and J. Fagot (1997). Hemispheric lateralisation and global precedence eﬀects
in the processing of visual stimuli by humans and baboons (Papio papio). Laterality 2,
233–246.
and J. Fagot (1998). Visual search for global/local stimulus features in humans and
baboons. Psychonomic Bulletin and Review 5, 476–481.
Dessalles, J.-L. (1998). Altruism, status and the origin of relevance. In J. R. Hurford,
M. Studdert-Kennedy, and C. Knight (eds.), Approaches to the Evolution of Language,
pp. 130–147. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
(1999). Coalition factor in the evolution of non-kin altruism. Advances in Complex
Systems 2, 143–172.
(2000). Language and hominid politics. In C. Knight, M. S. Kennedy, and J. R.
Hurford (eds.), The Evolutionary Emergence of Language: Social Function and the Origins
of Linguistic Form, pp. 62–80. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Di Paolo, E. (2000). Ecological symmetry breaking can favour the evolution of altruism in
an action-response game. Journal of Theoretical Biology 203, 135–152.
Dickinson, M. H., F.-O. Lehmann, and S. P. Sane (1999). Wing rotation and the aerody-
namic basis of insect ﬂight. Science 284, 1954–1960.
Digweed, S. M., L. M. Fedigan, and D. Rendall (2005). Variable speciﬁcity in the anti-
predator vocalizations and behaviour of the white-faced capuchin, Cebus capucinus.
Behaviour 142, 997–1021.
Dobzhansky, T. (1973). Nothing in biology makes sense except in the light of evolution.
The American Biology Teacher 35, 125–129.
Doherty, J. A. and H. C. Gerhardt (1983). Hybrid tree frogs: vocalizations of males and
selective phonotaxis of females. Science 220, 1078–1080.
Domb, L. G. and M. Pagel (2002). Sexual swellings advertise female quality in wild
baboons. Nature 410, 204–206.
Donald, M. (1991). Origins of the Modern Mind: Three Stages in the Evolution of Culture
and Cognition. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
(2001). A Mind So Rare. New York: W. W. Norton & Co.
Dowty, D. (1991). Thematic proto-roles and argument selection. Language 67(3), 547–
619.
Dretske, F. (1981). Knowledge and the Flow of Information. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Driver, J., P. Vuilleumier, and M. Husain (1999). Spatial neglect and extinction. In M. S.
Gazzaniga (ed.), The Cognitive Neurosciences III, pp. 589–606. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Dudai, Y. (2002). Memory from A to Z: Keywords, Concepts and Beyond. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
344 Bibliography
Dugatkin, L. A. (1988). Do guppies play Tit for Tat during predator inspection visits?
Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 23, 395–399.
Dugatkin, L. A. (1990). N-person games and the evolution of co-operation: a model based
on predator inspection in ﬁsh. Journal of Theoretical Biology 142(1), 123–135.
(1997). Cooperation Among Animals: An Evolutionary Perspective. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Dummett, M. E. A. (1993). The Origins of Analytical Philosophy. London: Duckworth.
Dunbar, R. I. M. (1996a). Determinants of group size in primates: a general model.
In W. G. Runciman, J. M. Smith, and R. I. M. Dunbar (eds.), Evolution of Social
Behaviour Patterns in Primates and Man, pp. 33–57. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
(1996b). Grooming, Gossip and the Evolution of Language. London: Faber and Faber.
(1999). Culture, honesty and the freerider problem. In R. Dunbar, C. Knight, and
C. Power (eds.), The Evolution of Culture, pp. 194–213. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University
Press.
Dupré, J. (1996). The mental lives of non-human animals. In M. Bekoﬀ and D. Jamieson
(eds.), Readings in Animal Cognition, pp. 323–336. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Dusek, J. A. and H. Eichenbaum (1997). The hippocampus and memory for orderly
stimulus relations. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the USA 94, 7109–
7114.
Edelman, S. (2006). Mostly harmless: review of Action in Perception by Alva Noë. Artiﬁcial
Life 12(1), 183–186.
Eggan, F. (1950). Social Organization of the Western Pueblos. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
Egnor, R., C. Miller, and M. Hauser (2006). Non-human primate communication. In
K. Brown (ed.), Encyclopedia of Language and Linguistics (2nd edn.), pp. 659–668.
Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Eichenbaum, H. (2002). The Cognitive Neuroscience of Memory. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Ellington, C. P., C. van den Berg, A. P. Willmott, and A. L. R. Thomas (1996). Leading-
edge vortices in insect ﬂight. Nature 384, 626–630.
Elugardo, R. (2002). The predicate view of proper names. In G. Preyer and G. Peter (eds.),
Logical Form and Language, pp. 467–503. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Emery, N. J. (2000). The eyes have it: the neuroethology, function and evolution of social
gaze. Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews 24, 581–604.
Enard, W., M. Przeworski, S. E. Fisher, C. S. Lal, V. Wlebe, T. Kitano, A. Monaco, and
S. Pääbo (2002). Molecular evolution of FOXP2, a gene involved in speech and language.
Nature 418, 869–872.
Enquist, M. and O. Leimar (1983). Evolution of ﬁghting behaviour: decision rules and
assessment of relative strength. Journal of Theoretical Biology 102, 387–410.
and O. Leimar (1993). The evolution of cooperation in mobile organisms. Animal
Behaviour 45, 747–757.
Erdal, D. and A. Whiten (1994). On human egalitarianism: an evolutionary product of
Machiavellian status escalation? Current Anthropology 35, 175–183.
Etienne, A. (1973). Developmental stages and cognitive structures as determinants of what
is learned. In R. Hinde and J. Stevenson-Hinde (eds.), Constraints on Learning, pp. 371–
395. New York: Academic Press.
Evans, C. S., L. Evans, and P. Marler (1993). On the meaning of alarm calls: functional
reference in an avian vocal system. Animal Behaviour 46(1), 23–38.
Evans, H. E. (1977). Extrinsic and intrinsic factors in the evolution of insect sociality.
BioScience 27, 613–617.
Bibliography 345
Ewert, J.-P. (1987). Neuroethology of releasing mechanisms: prey-catching in toads. Behav-
ioral and Brain Sciences 10, 337–405.
Fagot, J. and C. Deruelle (1997). Processing of global and local visual information and
hemispheric specialization in humans (Homo sapiens) and baboons (Papio papio). Journal
of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance 23, 429–442.
and M. Tomonaga (1998). Global-local processing in humans (Homo sapiens) and
chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes): use of a visual search task with compound stimuli.
Journal of Comparative Psychology 113, 3–12.
Fang, F. and S. He (2005). Cortical responses to invisible objects in the human dorsal and
ventral pathways. Nature Neuroscience 8(10), 1380–1385.
Farah, M. J. (1988). Is visual imagery really visual? Overlooked evidence from neuropsy-
chology. Psychological Review 95, 307–317. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(1990). Visual Agnosia: Disorders of Object Recognition and What they Tell us about
Normal Vision. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Fay, N., S. Garrod, T. MacLeod, J. Lee, and J. Oberlander (2005). Design, adaptation
and convention: The emergence of higher order graphical representations. (Unpublished
paper, University of Edinburgh School of Informatics and ATR Media Informatiion
Science Labs, Japan.)
Fehr, E. and S. Gächter (2002). Altruistic punishment in humans. Nature 415, 137–140.
Feinberg, D. R., B. C. Jones, L. M. DeBruine, F. R. Moore, M. J. Law Smith, R. E.
Cornwell, B. P. Tiddeman, L. G. Boothroyd, and D. I. Perrett (2005). The voice and
face of woman: One ornament that signals quality? Evolution and Human Behavior 26,
398–408.
B. C. Jones, M. J. Law Smith, F. R. Moore, L. M. DeBruine, R. E. Cornwell, S. G.
Hillier, and D. I. Perrett (2006). Menstrual cycle, trait estrogen level, and masculinity
preferences in the human voice. Hormones and Behavior 49, 215–222.
Feldman, M. W. and K. N. Laland (1996). Gene-culture coevolutionary theory. Trends in
Ecology and Evolution 11, 453–457.
Fischer, J. (2002). Developmental modiﬁcations in the vocal behavior of non-human pri-
mates. In A. A. Ghazanfar (ed.), Primate Audition: Ethology and Neurobiology, pp. 109–
125. London: CRC Press.
Fiset, S., C. Beaulieu, and F. Landry (2003). Duration of dogs’ (Canis familiaris) working
memory in search for disappearing objects. Animal Cognition 6(1), 1–10.
Fisher, R. A. (1915). The evolution of sexual preferences. Eugenics Review 7, 184–192.
(1930). The Genetical Theory of Natural Selection. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Fitch, W. T. (2005). The evolution of language: a comparative review. Biology and Philoso-
phy 20, 193–230.
Flavell, J. (1979). Metacognition and cognitive monitoring: a new area of cognitive-
developmental inquiry. American Psychologist 34, 906–911.
Fodor, J. A. (1990). A Theory of Content and other Essays. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(1998). Concepts: Where Cognitive Science Went Wrong. Oxford Cognitive Science
Series. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Fortin, N. J., K. L. Agster, and H. B. Eichenbaum (2002). Critical role of the hippocampus
in memory for sequences of events. Nature Neuroscience 5(5), 458–462.
Foster, K. R., T. Wenseleers, and F. L. Ratnieks (2006). Kin selection is the key to altruism.
Trends in Ecology and Evolution 21, 57–60.
Franco, F. and G. E. Butterworth (1996). Pointing and social awareness: declaring
and requesting in the second year of life. Journal of Child Language 23(2), 307–
336.
Freedman, D. G. (1958). Constitutional and environmental interactions in rearing of four
breeds of dogs. Science 127, 585–586.
346 Bibliography
Frege, G. (1879). Begriﬀsschrift: eine der arithmetischen nachgebildete Formelsprache des
reinen Denkens. Halle: Louis Nebert. (English translation, Conceptual Notation and
Related Articles, with a biography and introduction, by Terrell Ward Bynum. Oxford:
Oxford University Press 1972.)
(1892). Über Sinn und Bedeutung. Zeitschrift für Philosophie und philosophische
Kritik 100, 25–50. (Page references here are to Translations from the Philosophical
Writings of Gottlob Frege, ed. Peter Geach and Max Black. Oxford: Basil Blackwell
(1970).)
Fremouw, T., W. T. Herbranson, and C. P. Shimp (1998). Priming of attention to
local or global levels of visual analysis. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Behavior
Processes 24(3), 278–290.
W. T. Herbranson, and C. P. Shimp (2002). Dynamic shifts of pigeon local/global
attention. Animal Cognition 5(4), 233–243.
Frost, P. (1994). Preference for darker faces in photographs at diﬀerent phases of the men-
strual cycle: preliminary assessment of evidence for a hormonal relationship. Perceptual
and Motor Skills 79, 507–514.
Fukatsu, R., T. Fujii, T. Tsukiura, A. Yamadori, and T. Otsuki (1999). Proper name anomia
after left temporal lobectomy: a patient study. Neurology 52, 1096.
Furness, W. H. (1916). Observations on the mentality of chimpanzees and orang-utangs.
Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society 55, 281–290.
Gabriel, S. E., K. L. Brigman, B. H. Koller, R. C. Boucher, and M. J. Stutts (1994).
Cystic ﬁbrosis heterozygote resistance to cholera toxin in the cystic ﬁbrosis mouse model.
Science 266, 107–109.
Gagnon, S. and F. Doré (1992). Search behavior in various breeds of adult dogs (Canis
familiaris): object permanence and olfactory cues. Journal of Comparative Psycho-
logy 106, 58–68.
Galantucci, B. (2005). An experimental study of the emergence of human communication
systems. Cognitive Science 29, 737–767.
Gallese, V. (2003a). A neuroscientiﬁc grasp of concepts: from control to representation.
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London, B 358, 1231–1240.
(2003b). The roots of empathy: the shared manifold hypothesis and the neural basis
of intersubjectivity. Psychopathology 36(4), 171–180.
(2003c). The ‘Shared Manifold’ Hypothesis: from mirror neurons to empathy. Journal
of Consciousness Studies 8(5–7), 33–50.
(2004). ‘Being like me’: self–other identity, mirror neurons and empathy. In S. Hurley
and N. Chater (eds.), Perspectives on Imitation: From Cognitive Neuroscience to Social
Science. Boston, MA: MIT Press.
L. Fadiga, L. Fogassi, and G. Rizzolatti (1996). Action recognition in the premotor
cortex. Brain 119, 593–609.
and G. Lakoﬀ (2005). The brain’s concepts: the role of the sensory-motor system in
conceptual knowledge. Cognitive Neuropsychology 22(3–4), 455–479.
Gärdenfors, P. (1996). Cued and detached representations in animal cognition. Behavioural
Processes 35, 263–273.
(2003). How Homo Became Sapiens: On the Evolution of Thinking. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
(2004). Cooperation and the evolution of symbolic communication. In D. K. Oller
and U. Griebel (eds.), Evolution of Communication Systems, pp. 237–256. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Gardner, B. T. and R. A. Gardner (1971). Two-way communication with an infant chim-
panzee. In A. M. Schrier and F. Stollnitz (eds.), Behavior of Nonhuman Primates: Modern
Research Trends, Vol. 4, pp. 117–183. New York: Academic Press.
Bibliography 347
Gasper, K. and G. L. Clore (2002). Attending to the big picture: mood and global versus
local processing of visual information. Psychological Science 13(1), 34–40.
Geissmann, T. (1999). Duet songs of the siamang, Hylobates syndactylus: ii. test-
ing the pair-bonding hypothesis during a partner exchange. Behaviour 136(8), 1005–
1039.
(2000). Gibbon songs and human music from an evolutionary perspective. In N. L.
Wallin, B. Merker, and S. Brown (eds.), The Origins of Music, pp. 103–123. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Gergely, G. and G. Csibra (2005). A few reasons why we don’t share Tomasello et al’s
intuitions about sharing. Behavioral and Brain Sciences 28, 701–702.
Z. Nádasdy, G. Csibra, and S. Biró (1995). Taking the intentional stance at 12 months
of age. Cognition 56, 165–193.
Geurts, B. (1997). Good news about the description theory of names. Journal of Seman-
tics 14, 319–348.
Gibeault, S. and S. E. MacDonald (2000). Spatial memory and foraging competition in
captive western lowland gorillas (Gorilla gorilla gorilla). Primates 41, 147–160.
Gibson, J. J. (1979). The Ecological Approach to Visual Perception. Boston: Houghton
Miﬄin.
Giedd, J. N., C. Vaituzis, S. D. Hamburger, N. Lange, J. Rajapakse, D. Kaysen, Y. C.
Vauss, and J. L. Rapoport (1996). Quantitative MRI of the temporal lobe, amygdala, and
hippocampus in normal human development: ages 4–18 years. Journal of Comparative
Neurology 366, 223–230.
Gintis, H. (2000). Strong reciprocity and human sociality. Journal of Theoretical Bio-
logy 206, 169–179.
S. Bowles, R. Boyd, and E. Fehr (2003). Explaining altruistic behavior in humans.
Evolution and Human Behavior 24, 153–172.
Glaeser, E. L., D. I. Laibson, J. A. Sheinkman, and C. L. Soutter (2000). Measuring trust.
Quarterly Journal of Economics 115, 811–846.
Godwin-Austen, R. B. (1965). A case of visual disorientation. Journal of Neurology, Neuro-
surgery and Psychiatry 28, 453–458.
Goldenberg, G. (1998). Is there a common substrate for visual recognition and visual
imagery? Neurocase 4, 141–147.
Goldin-Meadow, S. and C. Butcher (2003). Pointing toward two-word speech in young
children. In S. Kita (ed.), Pointing: Where Language, Culture, and Cognition Meet, pp.
85–107. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Gómez, J. C. (1990). The emergence of intentional communication as a problem-solving
strategy in the gorilla. In S. T. Parker and K. R. Gibson (eds.), ‘Language’ and Intelligence
in Monkeys and Apes: Comparative Developmental Perspectives, pp. 333–355. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
(1991). Visual behavior as a window for reading the minds of others in primates. In
A. Whiten (ed.), Natural Theories of Mind: Evolution, Development and Simulation of
Everyday Mindreading, pp. 195–207. Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
(1992). El desarrollo de la comunicación en el gorila. Ph.D. thesis, Universidad
Autónoma de Madrid.
(1996). Ostensive behavior in the great apes: the role of eye contact. In A. E. Russon,
K. A. Bard, and S. T. Parker (eds.), Reaching into Thought: The Minds of the Great Apes,
pp. 131–151. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
(2004). Apes, Monkeys, Children, and the Growth of Mind. Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press.
(2005a). Joint attention and the notion of subject: insights from apes, normal children,
and children with autism. In N. Eilan, C. Hoerl, T. McCormack, and J. Roessler (eds.),
348 Bibliography
Joint Attention: Communication and Other Minds, pp. 65–84. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Gómez, J. C. (2005b). Requesting gestures in captive monkeys and apes: conditioned
responses or referential behaviours? Gesture 5(1/2), 91–105.
Goodale, M. A., J. P. Meenan, H. H. Bülthoﬀ, D. A. Nicolle, K. J. Murphy, and C. I.
Racicot (1994). Separate neural pathways for the visual analysis of object shape in
perception and prehension. Current Biology 4(7), 604–610.
Goodall, J. (1986). The Chimpanzees of Gombe: Patterns of Behavior. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press.
Goodglass, H. and E. Kaplan (1983). The Assessment of Aphasia and Related Disorders.
Philadelphia: Lea & Febiger.
Gopnik, A. (1993). How we know our minds: the illusion of ﬁrst-person knowledge of
intentionality. Behavioral and Brain Sciences 16, 1–16.
and P. Graf (1988). Knowing how you know: young children’s ability to identify and
remember the sources of their beliefs. Child Development 59, 98–110.
Grafen, A. (1990a). Biological signals as handicaps. Journal of Theoretical Biology 144,
517–546.
(1990b). Sexual selection unhandicapped by the ﬁsher process. Journal of Theoretical
Biology 144, 473–516.
Greene, A. J., B. A. Spellman, J. A. Dusek, H. B. Eichenbaum, and W. B. Levy (2001).
Relational learning with and without awareness: transitive inference using nonverbal
stimuli in humans. Memory and Cognition 29(6), 893–902.
Greenﬁeld, P. M. and E. S. Savage-Rumbaugh (1990). Grammatical combination in Pan
paniscus: processes of learning and invention in the evolution and development of lan-
guage. In S. T. Parker and K. R. Gibson (eds.), ‘Language’ and Intelligence in Monkeys
and Apes: Comparative Developmental Perspectives, pp. 540–578. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Grice, H. P. (1967). Logic and Conversation. William James Lectures. (Repr. in H. P. Grice,
Studies in the Ways of Words, pp. 1–143. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press
1989.)
(1975). Logic and conversation. In P. Cole (ed.), Syntax and Semantics, Vol. 3, pp.
41–58. New York: Academic Press.
Griﬃn, D. (2001). Animals know more than we used to think. Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences (USA) 98, 4833–4834.
Griﬃths, D. P., A. Dickinson, and N. S. Clayton (1999). Episodic memory: what can
animals remember about their past. Trends in Cognitive Sciences 3(2), 74–80.
Grill-Spector, K. and N. Kanwisher (2005). Visual recognition: as soon as you know it is
there, you know what it is. Psychological Science 16(2), 152–160.
Grim, P., S. Wardach, and V. Beltrani (2006). Location, location, location: the importance
of spatialization on modeling cooperation and communication. Interaction Studies 7(1),
41–75.
Grossman, M., P. Koenig, C. DeVita, G. Glosser, D. Alsop, J. Detre, and J. Gee (2002). The
neural basis for category-speciﬁc knowledge: an fMRI study. NeuroImage 15, 936–948.
Gurven, M. (2004). To give and to give not: the behavioral ecology of human food transfers.
Behavioral and Brain Sciences 27, 543–583.
Gust, D., E. St. Andre, C. Minter, T. Gordon, and H. Gouzoules (1990). Female copula-
tory vocalizations in a captive group of sooty mangabeys (Cercocebus torquatus atys).
American Journal of Primatology 20, 196.
Güth, W. and R. Tietz (1990). Ultimatum bargaining behavior: a survey and comparison
of experimental results. Journal of Economic Psychology 11, 417–449.
Halliday, M. A. K. (1985). Introduction to Functional Grammar. London: Edward Arnold.
Bibliography 349
Hamao, S. and H. Eda-Fujiwara (2004). Vocal mimicry by the black-browed reed warbler
Acrocephalus bistrigiceps: objective identiﬁcation of mimetic sounds. Ibis 146, 61–68.
Hamilton, W. D. (1964). The genetical evolution of social behavior. Journal of Theoretical
Biology 7, 1–16, 17–52. Parts I and II.
(1970). Selﬁsh and spiteful behaviour in an evolutionary model. Nature 228, 1218–
1220.
(1972). Altruism and related phenomena, mainly in social insects. Annual Review of
Ecological Systems 3, 193–232.
and S. P. Brown (2001). Autumn tree colors as a handicap signal. Proceedings of the
Royal Society of London B 268, 1489–1493.
Hamilton, W. J. and P. C. Arrowood (1978). Copulatory vocalisations of chacma baboons
(Papio ursinus), gibbons (Hylobates hoolock) and humans. Science 200, 1405–1409.
Hampton, R. R. (2001). Rhesus monkeys know when they remember. Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences (USA) 98, 5359–5362.
Hare, B., E. Addessi, J. Call, M. Tomasello, and E. Visalberghi (2003). Do capuchin
monkeys, Cebus apella, know what conspeciﬁcs do and do not see? Animal Behaviour 65,
131–142.
M. Brown, C. Williamson, and M. Tomasello (2002). The domestication of social
cognition in dogs. Science 298, 1634–1636.
J. Call, B. Agnetta, and M. Tomasello (2000). Chimpanzees know what conspeciﬁcs
do and do not see. Animal Behaviour 59, 771–785.
J. Call, and M. Tomasello (2001). Do chimpanzees know what conspeciﬁcs know?
Animal Behaviour 61(1), 139–151.
and M. Tomasello (1999). Domestic dogs (Canis familiaris) use human and conspe-
ciﬁc social cues to locate hidden food. Journal of Comparative Psychology 113, 173–
177.
and M. Tomasello (2004). Chimpanzees are more skilful in competitive than in coop-
erative tasks. Animal Behaviour 68, 571–581.
Harms, W. F. (2004). Primitive content, translation, and the emergence of meaning in
animal communication. In D. K. Oller and U. Griebel (eds.), Evolution of Communication
Systems: A Comparative Approach, pp. 31–48. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Harris, M., F. Barlow-Brown, and J. Chasin (1995). Early referential understanding. First
Language 15(1), 19–34.
Hauser, L. (1995). Doing without mentalese. Behavior and Philosophy 23, 42–47.
Hauser, M. D. (1992). Costs of deception: cheaters are punished in rhesus monkeys
(Macaca mulatta). Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the USA 89,
12137–12139.
(1996). The Evolution of Communication. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(1998a). Functional referents and acoustic similarity: ﬁeld playback experiments with
rhesus monkeys. Animal Behaviour 55, 1647–1658.
(1998b). A nonhuman primate’s expectations about object motion and destination:
the importance of self-propelled movement and animacy. Developmental Science 1(1),
31–37.
(2003). Knowing about knowing: dissociations between perception and action sys-
tems over evolution and during development. Annals of the New York Academy of
Science 1001(1), 79–103.
S. Carey, and L. B. Hauser (2000). Spontaneous number representation in semi-free-
ranging rhesus monkeys. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London, Series B 267, 829–
833.
M. K. Chen, F. Chen, and E. Chuang (2003). Give unto others: genetically unre-
lated cotton-top tamarin monkeys preferentially give food to those who altruisti-
350 Bibliography
cally give food back. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London, Series B 270,
2363–2370.
Hauser, M. D., N. Chomsky, and W. T. Fitch (2002). The faculty of language: what is it,
who has it, and how did it evolve? Science 298, 1569–1579.
and P. Marler (1993). Food-associated calls in rhesus macaques (Macaca
mulatta). I. Socioecological factors inﬂuencing call production. Behavioral Ecology 4,
194–205.
and E. Spelke (2004). Evolutionary and developmental foundations of human know-
ledge: a case study of mathematics. In M. Gazzaniga (ed.), The Cognitive Neurosciences
III, pp. 853–864. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Healy, S. D. and J. Suhonen (1996). Memory for location of stored food in willow tits and
marsh tits. Behaviour 133(1–2), 71–80.
Heim, I. (1983). File change semantics and the familiarity theory of deﬁniteness. In
R. Bäuerle, C. Schwarze, and A. von Stechow (eds.), Meaning, Use, and Interpretation
of Language, pp. 164–189. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
Henrich, J. (2004). Inequity aversion in capuchins? Nature 428, 139.
and R. Boyd (2001). Why people punish defectors: weak conformist transmission can
stabilize costly enforcement of norms in cooperative dilemmas. Journal of Theoretical
Biology 208, 79–89.
R. Boyd, S. Bowles, C. Camerer, E. Fehr, H. Gintis, and R. McElreath (2001). Coop-
eration, reciprocity and punishment in ﬁfteen small-scale societies. American Economic
Review 91, 73–78.
Herman, L. M., S. L. Abichandani, A. N. Alhajj, E. Y. Herman, J. L. Sanchez, and A. A.
Pack (1999). Dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) comprehend the referential character of the
human pointing gesture. Journal of Comparative Psychology 113, 347–364.
Herrnstein, R. (1991). Levels of categorization. In G. Edelman, W. Gall, and W. Cowan
(eds.), Signal and Sense, pp. 385–413. Somerset, NJ: Wiley-Liss.
Herrnstein, R. J., D. Loveland, and C. Cable (1976). Natural concepts in pigeons. Journal
of Experimental Psychology: Animal Behavior Processes 2, 285–302.
Hess, J., M. A. Novak, and D. J. Povinelli (1993). ‘Natural pointing’ in a rhesus monkey,
but no evidence of empathy. Animal Behaviour 46, 1023–1025.
Hewes, G. (1973). Primate communication and the gestural origin of language. Current
Anthropology 14, 5–24.
Heyes, C. M. (1998). Theory of mind in non-human primates. Behavioral and Brain Sci-
ences 21(1), 101–134.
Higginbotham, J. (1999). Thematic roles. In R. A. Wilson and F. Keil (eds.), The MIT
Encyclopedia of the Cognitive Sciences, pp. 837–838. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(2000). On events in linguistic semantics. In J. Higginbotham, F. Panesi, and A. C.
Varzi (eds.), Speaking of Events, pp. 49–79. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Hillis, A. E. and A. Caramazza (1991). Category-speciﬁc naming and comprehension
impairment: a double dissociation. Brain 115(5), 2081–2094.
Hirsh, I. J. and C. E. Sherrick (1961). Perceived order in diﬀerent sense modalities. Journal
of Experimental Psychology 62, 423–432.
Hobson, P. (2002). The Cradle of Thought: Exploring the Origins of Thinking. London:
Macmillan.
Hockett, C. F. (1960). The origin of speech. Scientiﬁc American 203(3), 89–96.
and S. A. Altmann (1968). A note on design features. In T. A. Sebeok (ed.), Animal
Communication: Techniques of Study and Results of Research, pp. 61–72. Bloomington,
IN: Indiana University Press.
Hodges, J. R. and K. Patterson (1999). Semantic memory disorders. Trends in Cognitive
Sciences 1(2), 68–72.
Bibliography 351
Hoﬀman, M. L. (2004). Communication of where an event occurred by a gorilla (Gorilla
gorilla gorilla). Modern Psychological Studies 10, 61–68.
Hogue, M. E., J. P. Beaugrand, and P. C. Lague (1996). Coherent use of information by hens
observing their former dominant defeating or being defeated by a stranger. Behavioural
Processes 38, 241–252.
Honey, R. and J. Bolhuis (1997). Imprinting, conditioning, and within-event learning.
Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology B 50(2), 97–110.
Hood, B. M., V. Cole-Davis, and M. Diaz (2003). Looking and search measures of object
knowledge in preschool children. Developmental Psychology 39, 61–70.
Horner, M. D. (1990). Psychobiological evidence for the distinction between episodic and
semantic memory. Neuropsychology Review 1(4), 281–321.
Horner, V. and A. Whiten (2005). Causal knowledge and imitation/emulation switching
in chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) and children (Homo sapiens). Animal Cognition 8(3),
164–181.
Hoy, R. R., J. Hahn, and R. C. Paul (1977). Hybrid cricket auditory behavior: evidence for
genetic coupling in animal communication. Science 195, 82–84.
and R. C. Paul (1973). Genetic control of song speciﬁcity in crickets. Science 180,
82–83.
Hubel, D. H. and T. N. Wiesel (1959). Receptive ﬁelds of single neurons in the cat’s striate
cortex. Journal of Physiology 148, 574–591.
and T. N. Wiesel (1968). Receptive ﬁelds, binocular interaction and functional archi-
tecture in the cat’s striate cortex. Journal of Physiology 195, 215–243.
Huber, E. (1931). Evolution of Facial Musculature and Facial Expression. Baltimore, MD:
Johns Hopkins University Press.
Hughes, S. M., F. Dispenza, and G. G. Gallup (2004). Ratings of voice attractiveness
predict sexual behavior and body conﬁguration. Evolution and Human Behavior 25(5),
295–304.
Humboldt, W. Von (1836). Über die Verschiedenheit des Menschlichen Sprachbaues und
ihren Einﬂuß auf die geistige Entwicklung des Menschengeschlechts. Berlin: Druckerei der
Königlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften.
Hume, D. (1739). A Treatise of Human Nature: Being an Attempt to Introduce the Experi-
mental Method of Reasoning into Moral Subjects. London: John Noon.
Hummel, J. (1999). Binding problem. In R. A. Wilson and F. Keil (eds.), The MIT Encyclo-
pedia of the Cognitive Sciences, pp. 85–86. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Humphreys, G. W. (1998). Neural representation of objects in space: a dual coding account.
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London, Series B 353, 1341–1351.
Huntingford, F. A., J. Lazarus, B. D. Barrie, and S. A. Webb (1994). A dynamic analysis of
cooperative predator inspection in sticklebacks. Animal Behaviour 47, 413–423.
Hurford, J. R. (1989). Biological evolution of the Saussurean sign as a component of the
language acquisition device. Lingua 77, 187–222.
(1991). The evolution of the critical period for language acquisition. Cognition 40,
159–201.
(1999). Individuals are abstractions. Behavioral and Brain Sciences 22(4), 620–621.
(2001). Protothought had no logical names. In J. Trabant and S. Ward (eds.), New
Essays on the Origin of Language, pp. 117–130. Berlin: de Gruyter.
(2002). The roles of expression and representation in language evolution. In A. Wray
(ed.), The Transition to Language, pp. 311–334. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
(2003a). The neural basis of predicate-argument structure. Behavioral and Brain Sci-
ences 26(3), 261–283.
(2003b). Ventral/dorsal, predicate/argument: the transformation from perception to
meaning. Behavioral and Brain Sciences 26(3), 301–311.
352 Bibliography
(2007). The origin of noun phrases: reference, truth, and communication. Lin-
gua 117(3), 527–542.
Hurford, J. R. and B. Heasley (1983). Semantics: A Coursebook. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
and S. Kirby (1999). Co-evolution of language-size and the critical period. In D. Bird-
song (ed.), New Perspectives on the Critical Period Hypothesis and Second Language
Acquisition, pp. 39–63. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Hurley, K. (2006). Pointing, reference, and the evolution of language: an experimental
study on primitive horses’ understanding of the human pointing gesture. Master’s thesis,
University of Edinburgh.
Hurley, S. (2006). Making sense of animals. In S. Hurley and M. Nudds (eds.), Rational
Animals?, pp. 139–171. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Inoue-Nakamura, N. and T. Matsuzawa (1997). Development of stone tool use by wild
chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). Journal of Comparative Psychology 111, 159–173.
Irwin, D. E. and J. R. Brockmole (2004). Suppressing Where but not What. Psychological
Science 15(7), 467–473.
Itakura, S., B. Agnetta, B. Hare, and M. Tomasello (1999). Chimpanzee use of human
and conspeciﬁc social cues to locate hidden food. Developmental Sciences 2, 448–
456.
Itti, L. and M. A. Arbib (2006). Attention and the minimal subscene. In M. A. Arbib
(ed.), From Action to Language via the Mirror Neuron System, pp. 289–346. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Jackendoﬀ, R. (1990). Semantic Structures. Current Studies in Linguistics, 18. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
(2002). Foundations of Language: Brain, Meaning, Grammar, Evolution. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Janata, P., B. Tillmann, and J. J. Bharucha (2002). Listening to polyphonic music recruits
domain-general attention and working memory circuits. Cognitive, Aﬀective, and Behav-
ioral Neuroscience 2(2), 121–140.
Jansen, V. A. A. and M. van Baalen (2006). Altruism through beard chromodynamics.
Nature 440, 663–666.
Jespersen, O. (1922). Language: its Nature, Development and Origin. London: G. Allen and
Unwin Ltd. (Repr. New York: W. W. Norton & Co. 1964).
Johanson, D. and T. White (1979). A systematic assessment of early African hominids.
Science 202, 321–330.
Johansson, G. (1973). Visual perception of biological motion and a model for its analysis.
Perception and Psychophysics 14, 201–211.
John, O. P. (1990). The ‘big ﬁve’ factor taxonomy: dimensions of personality in the natural
language and in questionnaires. In L. A. Pervin (ed.), Handbook of Personality: Theory
and Research. New York: Guilford.
Jokisch, D. and N. F. Troje (2003). Biological motion as a cue for the perception of size.
Journal of Vision 3, 252–264.
Jolly, A. (1985). The Evolution of Primate Behavior (2nd edn.). New York: Macmillan.
Jones, B. C., A. C. Little, L. Boothroyd, D. R. Feinberg, R. E. Cornwell, L. M. DeBruine,
S. C. Roberts, I. S. Penton-Voak, M. J. L. Smith, F. R. Moore, H. P. Davis, and D. I.
Perrett (2005). Women’s physical and psychological condition independently predict
their preference for apparent health in faces. Evolution and Human Behavior 26, 451–
457.
Julesz, B. and R. A. Schumer (1981). Early visual perception. Annual Review of Psycho-
logy 32, 575–627.
Bibliography 353
Kahneman, D. and A. Treisman (1984). Changing views of attention and automaticity. In
R. Parasuraman and D. A. Davies (eds.), Varieties of Attention, pp. 29–61. New York:
Academic Press.
Kahneman, D. and A. Treisman (1992). The reviewing of object ﬁles: object-speciﬁc inte-
gration of information. Cognitive Psychology 24, 175–219.
Kaminski, J., J. Riedel, J. Call, and M. Tomasello (2005). Domestic goats, Capra hircus,
follow gaze direction and use social cues in an object choice task. Animal Behaviour 69,
11–18.
Kamp, H. and U. Reyle (1993). From Discourse to Logic: Introduction to Modeltheoretic
Semantics of Natural Language, Formal Logic and Discourse Representation Theory.
Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic.
Kant, I. (1781). Kritik der Reinen Vernunft. Riga: Johann Friedrich Hartknoch.
(1783). Prolegomena zu einer jeden künftigen Metaphysik die als Wissenschaft wird
auftreten können. Riga: Johann Friedrich Hartknoch. (Prolegomena to Any Future Meta-
physics, trans. Paul Carus. LaSalle, IL: Open Court 1905.).
Kaplan, G. and L. J. Rogers (2002). Patterns of gazing in orangutans (Pongo pygmaeus).
International Journal of Primatology 23(3), 501–526.
Karakashian, S. J., M. Gyger, and P. Marler (1988). Audience eﬀects on alarm
calling in chickens (Gallus gallus). Journal of Comparative Psychology 102(2),
129–135.
Kastak, C. R. and R. J. Schustermann (2002). Long-term memory for concepts in a
California sea lion (Zalophus californianus). Animal Cognition 5(4), 225–232.
Katz, J. S., A. A. Wright, and J. Bachevalier (2002). Mechanisms of Same/Diﬀerent abstract-
concept learning by rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta). Journal of Experimental Psycho-
logy: Animal Behavior Processes 28(4), 358–368.
Kaufman, E., M. Lord, T. Reese, and J. Volkmann (1949). The discrimination of visual
number. American Journal of Psychology 62, 498–525.
Kawecki, T. J. (1991). Sex-linked altruism: a stepping-stone in the evolution of social
behavior? Journal of Evolutionary Biology 3, 487–500.
Keddy-Hector, A. C., C. Allen, and T. H. Friend (2005). Cognition in domestic
pigs (Sus scrofa): same-diﬀerence relational concepts. Unpub. paper, Texas A & M
University.
Keller, L. and K. G. Ross (1998). Selﬁsh genes: a green beard in the red ant. Nature 394,
573–575.
Kellogg, W. N. and L. A. Kellogg (1933). The Ape and the Child: A Study of Early Environ-
mental Inﬂuence upon Early Behavior. New York: McGraw Hill.
Kemmerer, D. (2006). Action verbs, argument structure constructions, and the mirror
neuron system. In M. A. Arbib (ed.), From Action to Language via the Mirror Neuron
System, pp. 347–373. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Kim, J. (1969). Events and their descriptions: some considerations. In N. Rescher (ed.),
Essays in Honor of Carl G. Hempel, pp. 198–215. Dordrecht, Holland: Reidel.
(1976). Events as property exempliﬁcations. In M. Brand and D. Walton (eds.), Action
Theory: Proceedings of the Winnipeg Conference on Human Action, pp. 159–177. Dor-
drecht, Holland: Reidel.
King, J. E. and A. J. Figueredo (1997). The ﬁve-factor model plus dominance in chimpanzee
personality. Journal of Research in Personality 31, 257–271.
A. Weiss, and K. H. Farmer (2005). A chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) analogue of
cross-national generalization of personality structure: zoological parks and an African
sanctuary. Journal of Personality 73(2), 389–410.
Kinsbourne, M. and E. K. Warrington (1962). A disorder of simultaneous form perception.
Brain 85, 461–486.
354 Bibliography
Kirkpatrick, K. (2001). Object recognition. In R. J. Cook (ed.), Avian Visual Cognition.
Tufts University Psychology Department in cooperation with Comparative Cognition
Press. (Cyberbook online at http://www.pigeon.psy.tufts.edu/avc/ .).
Klein, R. G. (1991). The Human Career: Human Biological and Cultural Origins. Chicago,
IL: University of Chicago Press.
(2003). Whither the Neanderthals? Science 299, 1525–1527.
Klein, S. B., L. Cosmides, J. Tooby, and S. Chance (2002). Decisions and the evolu-
tion of memory: multiple systems, multiple functions. Psychological Review 109(2),
306–329.
Knauft, B. M. (1991). Violence and sociality in human evolution. Current Anthropology 32,
391–428.
Knight, C. (2002). Language and revolutionary consciousness. In A. Wray (ed.), The
Transition to Language, pp. 138–160. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
(2006). The politics of early kinship. (Class notes, University of East London.)
M. Studdert-Kennedy, and J. R. Hurford (2000). Language: a Darwinian adapta-
tion? In C. Knight, M. Studdert-Kennedy, and J. R. Hurford (eds.), The Evolutionary
Emergence of Language: Social Function and the Origins of Linguistic Form, pp. 1–15.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Kobayashi, H. and S. Kohshima (1997). Morphological uniqueness of human eyes and its
adaptive meaning. Nature 387, 767–768.
Konishi, M. (1965a). Eﬀects of deafening on song development in American robins and
black-headed grosbeaks. Zeitschrift für Tierpsychologie 35, 352–380.
(1965b). The role of auditory feedback in the control of vocalization in the white-
crowned sparrow. Zeitschrift für Tierpsychologie 22, 770–783.
(1985). Birdsong: from behavior to neuron. Annual Review of Neuroscience 8, 125–170.
Kosfeld, M., M. Heinrichs, P. J. Zak, U. Fischbacher, and E. Fehr (2005). Oxy-
tocin increases trust in humans. Nature 435, 673–676. (Note corrigendum to
a ﬁgure appended to the online version of this paper, at http://www.iew.unizh.
ch/home/kosfeld/papers/ottrust_nature_.corr.pdf.)
Kosslyn, S. M., (1994). Image and Brain. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
W. L. Thompson, I. J. Kim, and N. M. Alpert (1995). Topographical representations
of mental images in primary visual cortex. Nature 378, 496–498.
Kotchoubey, B. (2005). Pragmatics, prosody, and evolution: language is more than a sym-
bolic system. Behavioural and Brain Sciences 28, 136–137.
Krebs, J. R. and R. Dawkins (1984). Animal signals: mind-reading and manipulation. In
J. R. Krebs and N. B. Davies (eds.), Behavioural Ecology: An Evolutionary Approach.
Oxford: Blackwell Scientiﬁc Publications.
Kripke, S. (1980). Naming and Necessity. Oxford: Blackwell.
Kuczaj, S. A. and J. L. Hendry (2003). Does language help animals think? In D. Gentner
and S. Goldin-Meadow (eds.), Language in Mind: Advances in the Study of Language and
Thought, pp. 237–275. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Kudo, H. and R. I. M. Dunbar (2001). Neocortex size and social network size in primates.
Animal Behaviour 62(4), 711–722.
Kuhl, P. K. (1991). Human adults and human infants show a ‘perceptual magnet eﬀect’ for
the prototypes of speech categories, monkeys do not. Perception and Psychophysics 50(2),
93–107.
Kyriacou, C. P. and J. C. Hall (1986). Interspeciﬁc genetic control of courtship song
production and reception in Drosophila. Science 232, 494–497.
Lachmann, M., S. Számadó, and C. T. Bergstrom (2002). Cost and conﬂict in animal signals
and human language. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United
States of America 98(23), 13189–13194.
Bibliography 355
Laeng, B., S. M. Koslyn, V. S. Caviness, and J. Bates (1999). Can deﬁcits in spatial indexing
contribute to simultanagnosia? Cognitive Neuropsychology 16(2), 81–114.
Laland, K., J. Odling-Smee, and M. W. Feldman (2000). Niche construction, biological
evolution, and cultural change. Behavioral and Brain Sciences 23(1), 131–175.
Langer, S. K. (1967). An Introduction to Symbolic Logic (3rd rev. edn.). New York: Dover
Publications.
Leavens, D. A. (2004). Manual deixis in apes and humans. Interaction Studies 5(3), 387–
408.
and W. D. Hopkins (1998). Intentional communication by chimpanzees: a cross-
sectional study of the use of referential gestures. Developmental Psychology 34, 813–822.
and W. D. Hopkins (1999). The whole-hand point: the structure and function of
pointing from a comparative perspective. Journal of Comparative Psychology 113(4), 417–
425.
and W. D. Hopkins (2005). Multimodal concomitants of manual gesture by chim-
panzees (Pan troglodytes): inﬂuence of food size and distance. Gesture 5(1/2), 75–90.
and W. D. Hopkins and K. A. Bard (1996). Indexical and referential pointing in
chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). Journal of Comparative Psychology 110(4), 346–353.
W. D. Hopkins and K. A. Bard (2005). Understanding the point of chimpanzee point-
ing: epigenesis and ecological validity. Current Directions in Psychological Science 14(4),
185–189.
W. D. Hopkins and R. K. Thomas (2004). Referential communication by chimpanzees
(Pan troglodytes). Journal of Comparative Psychology 118, 48–57.
A. B. Hostetter, M. J. Wesley, and W. D. Hopkins (2004). Tactical use of unimodal and
bimodal communication by chimpanzees, Pan troglodytes. Animal Behaviour 67, 467–
476.
J. L. Russell, and W. D. Hopkins (2005). Intentionality as measured in the persistence
and elaboration of communication by chimpanzees. Child Development 76(1), 291–306.
Leibniz, G. (1714). Monadologie. Unpub. in Leibniz’s lifetime. See Rescher (1991).
Lempers, J. D., E. R. Flavell, and J. H. Flavell (1977). The development in very young
children of tacit knowledge concerning visual perception. Genetic Psychology Mono-
graphs 95, 3–53.
Lewis, D. (1969). Convention: A Philosophical Study. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University
Press.
Lewontin, R. C. (1983). Gene, organism, and environment. In D. S. Bendall (ed.), Evolution
from Molecules to Men. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Liebal, K., S. Pika, J. Call, and M. Tomasello (2004). To move or not to move: how apes
adjust to the attentional states of others. Interaction Studies 5, 199–219.
Lieberman, P. (1984). The Biology and Evolution of Language. Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press.
Lightfoot, D. (1991). Subjacency and sex. Language and Communication 11(1/2), 67–69.
Lim, M. M., Z. Wang, D. E. Olazabal, X. Ren, E. F. Terwilliger, and L. J. Young (2004).
Enhanced partner preference in a promiscuous species by manipulating the expression
of a single gene. Nature 429, 754–757.
Lin, N. and C. D. Michener (1972). Evolution of sociality in insects. Quarterly Review of
Biology 47, 131–159.
Link, G. (1997). Algebraic Semantics in Language and Philosophy. Stanford, CA: Center for
Study of Language and Information.
Linnankoski, I., M.-L. Laakso, R. Aulanko, and L. Leinonen (1994). Recognition of emo-
tions in macaque vocalizations by children and adults. Language and Communication 14,
183–192.
356 Bibliography
Lock, A. (1978). The emergence of language. In A. Lock (ed.), Action, Gesture, and Symbol:
the Emergence of Language, pp. 3–18. New York: Academic Press.
Locke, J. L. and B. Bogin (2006). Language and life history: a new perspective int the
development and evolution of human language. Behavioral and Brain Sciences 29, 259–
280.
Lohmann, H. and M. Tomasello (2003). The role of language in the development of false
belief understanding: a training study. Child Development 74(4), 1130–1144.
Lombardo, M. (1985). Mutual restraint in tree swallows: a test of the Tit for Tat model of
reciprocity. Science 227, 1363–1365.
Lorenz, K. (1937). The companion in the bird’s world. Auk 54, 245–273.
(1939). Vergleichende verhaltensforschung. Zoologischer Anzeiger, Supplement-
band 12, 69–102. (Journal also referenced as Verhandlungen der deutschen Zoologischen
Gesellschaft 1939).
Louie, K. and M. A. Wilson (2001). Temporally structured replay of awake hippocampal
ensemble activity during rapid eye movement sleep. Neuron 29(1), 145–156.
Luria, A. R. (1959). Disorders of ‘simultaneous perception’ in a case of bilateral occipi-
toparietal brain injury. Brain 83, 437–449.
E. N. Pravdina-Vinarskaya, and A. L. Yarbuss (1963). Disorders of ocular movement
in a case of simultanagnosia. Brain 86, 219–228.
Lyons, J. (1975). Deixis as the source of reference. In E. Keenan (ed.), Formal Semantics of
Natural Language, pp. 61–83. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
(1977). Semantics (2 vols.). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
MacDonald, S. E. (1994). Gorilla’s (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) spatial memory in a foraging
task. Journal of Comparative Psychology 108, 107–113.
MacNeilage, P. F. and B. L. Davis (2005). The frame/content theory of evolution of
speech: a comparison with a gestural-origins alternative. Interaction Studies 6(2), 173–
199.
Maestripieri, D. (1999). Primate social organization, gestural repertoire size, and commun-
ication dynamics: a comparative study of macaques. In B. J. King (ed.), The Origins of
Language. What Nonhuman Primates Can Tell Us, pp. 55–77. Santa Fe, NM: School of
American Research Press.
(2005). Gestural communication in three species of macaques (Macaca mulatta, M.
nemestrina, M. arctoides): use of signals in relation to dominance and social context.
Gesture 5(1/2), 57–73.
Magnan, A. (1934). Le Vol des insectes. Paris: Hermann et Compagnie.
Maienborn, C. (2005). On the limits of the Davidsonian approach: the case of copula
sentences. Theoretical Linguistics 31(3), 275–316.
Mandler, J. M. (1992). How to build a baby II: conceptual primitives. Psychological
Review 99, 587–604.
(1994). Precursors of linguistic knowledge. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal
Society, Series B 346, 1315.
Marcel, A. J. (1998). Blindsight and shape perception: deﬁcit of visual consciousness or of
visual function? Brain 121, 1565–1588.
Margulis, L. and D. Sagan (1991). Mystery Dance: On the Evolution of Human Sexuality.
New York: Summit Books.
Marler, P., C. S. Evans, and M. D. Hauser (1992). Animal signals? Reference, motiva-
tion or both? In H. Papoucek, U. Jürgens, and M. Papoucek (eds.), Nonverbal Vocal
Communication: Comparative and Developmental Approaches, pp. 66–86. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Marras, A. (1995). Behaviorism. In R. Audi (ed.), Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy, pp.
67–68. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Bibliography 357
Martin, A., C. L. Wiggs, L. G. Ungerleider, and J. V. Haxby (1996). Neural correlates of
category-speciﬁc knowledge. Nature 379, 649–652.
Maynard Smith, J. and E. Szathmáry (1995). The Major Transitions in Evolution. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
McAndrew, F. T. (2002). New evolutionary perspectives on altruism: multilevel-selection
and costly-signaling theories. Current Directions in Psychological Science 11(2), 79–82.
and M. A. Milenkovic (2002). Of tabloids and family secrets: the evolutionary psy-
chology of gossip. Journal of Applied Psychology 32, 1–20.
McComb, K. and S. Semple (2005). Coevolution of vocal communication and sociality
in primates. Biology Letters doi:10.1098/rsbl.2005.0366. (Published online by the Royal
Society.)
McGonigle, B. O. and M. Chalmers (1977). Are monkeys logical? Nature 267, 694–
696.
McGrew, W. C. (1975). Patterns of plant food sharing by wild chimpanzees. In S. Kondo,
M. Kawai, and A. Ehara (eds.), Contemporary Primatology, Proceedings of the 5th Inter-
national Congress of Primatology, Nagoya, 1974, pp. 304–309. Basel: Karger.
McHenry, H. (1996). Sexual dimorphism in fossil hominids and its socioecological impli-
cations. In J. Steele and S. Skennan (eds.), The Archaeology of Human Ancestry: Power,
Sex, and Tradition, pp. 91–109. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul.
McKinley, J. and T. D. Sambrook (2000). Use of human-given cues by domestic dogs (Canis
familiaris) and horses (Equus caballus). Animal Cognition 3, 13–22.
McMasters, J. (1989). The ﬂight of the bumblebee and related myths of entomological
engineering. American Scientist 77, 164–168.
McMullen, P. A., J. D. Fisk, S. J. Phillips, and W. J. Maloney (2000). Apperceptive agnosia
and face recognition. Neurocase 6, 403–414.
Meacham, J. A. and J. Singer (1977). Incentive eﬀects in prospective remembering. Journal
of Psychology 97, 191–197.
Mecklinger, A., C. Gruenewald, M. Besson, M.-N. Magnie, and D. Y. V. Cramon (2002).
Separable neuronal circuitries for manipulable and non-manipulable objects in working
memory. Cerebral Cortex 12(11), 1115–1123.
Melis, A. P., B. Hare, and M. Tomasello (2006a). Chimpanzees recruit the best collabora-
tors. Science 311, 1297–1300.
B. Hare, and M. Tomasello (2006b). Engineering cooperation in chimpanzees: toler-
ance constraints on cooperation. Animal Behaviour 72(2), 275–286.
Meltzoﬀ, A. (1988). Infant imitation after a one-week delay: long-term memory for novel
acts and multiple stimuli. Developmental Psychology 24, 470–476.
Meltzoﬀ, A. N. and M. K. Moore (1977). Imitation of facial and manual gestures by human
neonates. Science 198, 75–78.
M. K. Moore (1983). Newborn infants imitate adult facial gestures. Child Develop-
ment 54, 702–709.
Menzel, C. (2005). Progress in the study of chimpanzee recall and episodic memory. In H. S.
Terrace and J. Metcalfe (eds.), The Missing Link in Cognition: Origins of Self-Reﬂective
Consciousness, pp. 188–224. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Menzel, E. (1974). A group of young chimpanzees in a one-acre ﬁeld. In A. M. Schreier and
F. Stollnitz (eds.), Behavior of Non-human Primates, pp. 83–153. New York: Academic
Press.
Miklosi, A., E. Kubinyi, J. Topal, M. Gacsi, Z. Viranyi, and V. Csanyi (2003). A simple
reason for a big diﬀerence: wolves do not look back at humans, but dogs do. Current
Biology 13, 763–766.
R. Polgardi, J. Topal, and V. Csanyi (1998). Use of experimenter-given cues in dogs.
Animal Cognition 1, 113–121.
358 Bibliography
Miles, H. L. (1990). The cognitive foundations for reference in a signing orangutan. In
S. T. Parker and K. R. Gibson (eds.), ‘Language’ and Intelligence in Monkeys and
Apes: Comparative Developmental Perspectives, pp. 511–539. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Milinski, M. (1987). Tit for Tat and the evolution of cooperation in sticklebacks.
Nature 325, 433–435.
K. Külling, and R. Kettler (1990). Tit for Tat: sticklebacks (Gasterosteus aculeatus)
‘trusting’ a cooperating partner. Behavioral Ecology 1, 7–11.
Mill, J. S. (1843). A System of Logic, Ratiocinative and Inductive, being a connected view of
the principles of evidence and the methods of scientiﬁc investigation. London: J. W. Parker
and Son.
Miller, B. (2002). Existence. In E. N. Zalta (ed.), The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy,
Summer 2002 edition.
Miller, G. (2000a). Evolution of human music through sexual selection. In N. L. Wallin,
B. Merker, and S. Brown (eds.), The Origins of Music, pp. 329–360. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
(2000b). The Mating Mind: How Sexual Choice Shaped the Evolution of Human
Nature. London: William Heinemann.
Miller, G. A. (1956). The magical number seven, plus or minus two: some limits on our
capacity for processing information. Psychological Review 63, 81–97.
Millikan, R. G. (1987). Language, Thought, and Other Biological Categories: New Founda-
tions for Realism. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(1996). Pushmi-pullyu representations. In J. Tomberlin (ed.), Philosophical Perspec-
tives, Vol. 9, pp. 185–200. Atascadero, CA: Ridgeview. Repr. in L. May and M. Friend-
man (eds.), Mind and Morals, pp. 145–161. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(2004). On reading signs: some diﬀerences between us and the others. In D. K. Oller
and U. Griebel (eds.), Evolution of Communication Systems, pp. 15–29. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Milner, A. D. (1998). Streams and consciousness: visual awareness and the brain. Trends in
Cognitive Sciences 2(1), 25–30.
and M. A. Goodale (1995). The Visual Brain in Action. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Minsky, M. (1991). Logical versus analogical or symbolic versus connectionist or neat
versus scruﬀy. AI Magazine 12(2), 34–51.
Mitani, J. C. and P. Marler (1989). A phonological analysis of male gibbon singing behavior.
Behaviour 109, 20–45.
D. A. Merriwether, and C. Zhang (2000). Male aﬃliation, cooperation and kinship in
wild chimpanzees. Animal Behaviour 59, 885–893.
Mitchell, R. W. and J. R. Anderson (1997). Pointing, withholding information, and decep-
tion in capuchin monkeys (Cebus apella). Journal of Comparative Psychology III, 351–
361.
Mithen, S. (2005). The Singing Neanderthals: The Origins of Music, Language, Mind, and
Body. London: Weidenfeld and Nicolson.
Montague, R. (1970). English as a formal language. In B. Visentini (ed.), Linguaggi nella
Società e nella Tecnica, pp. 189–223. Milan: Edizioni di Comunità.
Moore, J. (1984). The evolution of reciprocal sharing. Ethology and Sociology 5, 5–14.
(2004). The history of human food transfers: Tinbergen’s other question. Behavioral
and Brain Sciences 27, 566–567.
Moriceau, S. and R. M. Sullivan (2005). Neurobiology of infant attachment. Developmental
Psychobiology 47(3), 230–242.
Moss, S. (2005). Birdwatch. Guardian, 19th September 2005, 31.
Bibliography 359
Mountjoy, D. J. and R. E. Lemon (1996). Female choice for complex song in the European
starling: a ﬁeld experiment. Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 38(1), 65–71.
Mulcahy, N. J. and J. Call (2006). Apes save tools for future use. Science 312, 1038–
1040.
Mumford, S. (1996). Virtus dormitiva, ha, ha, ha. The Philosopher 84(2), 12–15.
Munakata, Y., L. Santos, E. S. Spelke, M. D. Hauser, and R. C. O’Reilly (2001). Visual
representation in the wild: how rhesus monkeys parse objects. Journal of Cognitive
Neuroscience 13(1), 44–58.
Munn, C. A. (1986a). Birds that ‘cry wolf’. Nature 319, 143–145.
(1986b). The deceptive use of alarm calls by sentinel species in mixed species ﬂocks of
neotropical birds. In R. W. Mitchell and N. S. Thompson (eds.), Deception: Perspectives
on Human and Nonhuman Deceit, pp. 169–175. Albany, NY: State University of New
York Press.
Myowa-Yamakoshi, M., M. Tomonaga, M. Tanaka, and T. Matsuzawa (2004). Imitation
in neonatal chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). Developmental Science 7(4), 437–442.
Nakayama, K. and G. H. Silverman (1986). Serial and parallel processing of visual feature
conjunctions. Nature 320, 264–265.
Navon, D. (1977). Forest before the trees: the precedence of global features in visual
perception. Cognitive Psychology 9, 353–383.
Neiworth, J., E. Steinmark, B. Basile, R. Wonders, F. Steely, and C. DeHart (2003). A test
of object permanence in a new world monkey species, cotton top tamarins (Saguinus
oedipus). Animal Cognition 6, 27–37.
Nettle, D. and R. I. M. Dunbar (1997). Social markers and the evolution of reciprocal
exchange. Current Anthropology 38, 93–99.
Nishida, T. (1970). Social relationships and relationships among wild chimpanzees of the
Mahale mountains. Journal of Human Evolution 2, 357–370.
T. Hasegawa, H. Hayaki, Y. Takahata, and S. Uehara (1992). Meat-sharing as a
coalition strategy by an alpha male chimpanzee? In T. Nishida, W. C. McGrew, P. Marler,
M. Pickford, and F. B. M. de Waal (eds.), Topics in Primatology, pp. 159–174. Tokyo:
University of Tokyo Press.
Noë, A. (2004). Action in Perception. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Nowak, M. and K. Sigmund (1993). A strategy of win–stay, lose–shift that outperforms
tit-for-tat in the Prisoner’s Dilemma game. Nature 364, 56–58.
Nyberg, L., R. Habib, E. Tulving, R. Cabeza, S. Houle, J. Persson, and A. R. McIntosh
(2000). Large scale neurocognitive networks underlying episodic memory. Journal of
Cognitive Neuroscience 12, 163–173.
O’Connell, S. M. and G. Cowlishaw (1994). Infanticide avoidance, sperm competition and
mate choice: the function of copulation calls in female baboons. Animal Behaviour 48,
687–694.
Odling-Smee, F. J., K. N. Laland, and M. W. Feldman (1996). Niche construction. Ameri-
can Naturalist 147(4), 641–648.
Oliphant, M. (1997). Formal Approaches to Innate and Learned Communication: Laying the
Foundation for Language. Ph.D. thesis, University of California at San Diego.
(1999). The learning barrier: moving from innate to learned systems of communica-
tion. Adaptive Behavior 7(3/4), 371–384.
O’Riordan, C. (2000). A forgiving strategy for the Iterated Prisoner’s Dilemma. Journal of
Artiﬁcial Societies and Social Simulation 3(4). (Online journal.)
Packer, C. and A. E. Pusey (1983). Adaptations of female lions to infanticide by incoming
males. American Naturalist 121(5), 716–728.
Palameta, B. and W. M. Brown (1999). Human cooperation is more than by-product
mutualism. Animal Behaviour 57, F1–F3.
360 Bibliography
Palmer, C. T. (1991). Kin-selection, reciprocal altruism and information sharing among
Maine lobstermen. Ethology and Sociobiology 12, 221–235.
Parnell, R. J. and H. M. Buchanan-Smith (2001). An unusual social display by gorillas.
Nature 412, 293–294.
Parsons, T. (1990). Events in the Semantics of English: A Study in Subatomic Semantics.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(2000). Underlying states and time travel. In J. Higginbotham, F. Panesi, and A. C.
Varzi (eds.), Speaking of Events, pp. 81–93. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Peirce, C. S. (1897/1955). Logic as semiotic: the theory of signs. In J. Buchler (ed.), The
Philosophical Writings of Peirce, pp. 98–119. New York: Dover Books.
Pelamatti, G., M.Pascotto, and C. Semenza (2003). Verbal free recall in high altitude:
proper names vs common names. Cortex 39(1), 97–103.
Pendlebury, M. (1990). Why proper names are rigid designators. Philosophy and Pheno-
menological Research 50(3), 519–536.
Penton-Voak, I. S. and D. I. Perrett (2000). Female preference for male faces changes
cyclically—further evidence. Evolution and Human Behavior 21(1), 39–48.
D. I. Perrett, D. L. Castles, T. Kobayashi, D. M. Burt, L. K. Murray, and R. Minami-
sawa (1999). Female preference for male faces changes cyclically. Nature 399, 741–742.
Pepper, J. W. (2000). Relatedness in trait group models of social evolution. Journal of
Theoretical Biology 206, 355–368.
Pepperberg, I. M. (2000). The Alex Studies: Cognitive and Communicative Abilities of Grey
Parrots. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
M. Willner, and L. Gravits (1997). Development of Piagetian object permanence in a
grey parrot (Psittacus erithacus). Journal of Comparative Psychology III, 63–75.
Pietroski, P. M. (2002). Function and concatenation. In G. Preyer and G. Peter (eds.),
Logical Form and Language. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
(2005). Events and Semantic Architecture. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Pika, S., K. Liebal, J. Call, and M. Tomasello (2005). The gestural communication of apes.
Gesture 5(1/2), 41–56.
K. Liebal, and M. Tomasello (2003). Gestural communication in young gorillas:
gestural repertoire, learning, and use. American Journal of Primatology 60, 95–111.
and J. Mitani (2006). Referential gestural communication in wild chimpanzees (Pan
troglodytes). Current Biology 16(6), 191–192.
Pinker, S. (1997). How the Mind Works. New York: Penguin.
(2003). Language as an adaptation to the cognitive niche. In M. Christiansen and
S. Kirby (eds.), Language Evolution, pp. 16–37. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
and P. Bloom (1990). Natural language and natural selection. Behavioral and Brain
Sciences 13, 707–784.
Plooij, F. X. (1978). Some basic traits of language in wild chimpanzees? In A. Lock (ed.),
Action, Gesture and Symbol, pp. 111–131. New York: Academic Press.
Pöppel, E. (1997). A hierarchical model of temporal perception. Trends in Cognitive Sci-
ences 1(2), 56–61.
and M. Wittmann (1999). Time in the mind. In R. A. Wilson and F. Keil (eds.), The
MIT Encyclopedia of the Cognitive Sciences, pp. 841–843. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Posner, M. I., J. A. Walker, F. J. Friedrich, and R. Rafal (1984). Eﬀects of parietal injury on
covert orienting of visual attention. Journal of Neuroscience 4, 1863–1874.
Poulshock, J. W. (2006). Language and Morality: Evolution, Altruism, and Linguistic Moral
Mechanisms. Ph.D. thesis, University of Edinburgh.
Povinelli, D. J. and J. Barth (2005). Reinterpreting behavior: a human specialization?
Behavioral and Brain Sciences 28, 712–713.
Bibliography 361
J. M. Bering, and S. Giambrone (2003). Chimpanzees’ ‘pointing’: another error of the
argument by analogy? In S. Kita (ed.), Pointing: Where Language, Culture, and Cognition
Meet, pp. 35–68. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Povinelli, D. J. and T. J. Eddy (1996). What young chimpanzees know about seeing. Mono-
graphs of the Society for Research in Child Development 61(2, Serial No. 247).
and T. J. Eddy (1997). Speciﬁcity of gaze-following in young chimpanzees. British
Journal of Developmental Psychology 15, 213–222.
and J. Vonk (2003). Chimpanzee minds: suspiciously human? Trends in Cognitive
Sciences 7, 157–160.
and J. Vonk (2004). We don’t need a microscope to explore the chimpanzee’s mind.
Mind and Language, 19(1), 1–28.
Power, C. (1998). Old wives’ tales: the gossip hypothesis and the reliability of cheap signals.
In J. R. Hurford, M. Studdert-Kennedy, and C. Knight (eds.), Approaches to the Evolution
of Language, pp. 111–129. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Premack, D. (1983). Animal cognition. Annual Review of Psychology 34, 351–362.
and A. J. Premack (1983). The Mind of an Ape. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
and G. Woodruﬀ (1978). Does the chimpanzee have a theory of mind? Behavioral and
Brain Sciences 1(4), 515–526.
Price, J. J. and S. M. Lanyon (2004). Patterns of song evolution and sexual selection in the
oropendolas and caciques. Behavioral Ecology 15(3), 485–497.
Prinz, J. (2006). Putting the brakes on Enactive Perception. Psyche: an interdisciplinary
journal of research on consciousness 12(1). (Refereed online journal.)
Proverbio, A. M., S. Lilli, C. Semenza, and A. Zani (2001). ERP indexes of functional
diﬀerences in brain activation during proper and common names retrieval. Neuropsy-
chologia 39(8), 815–827.
Provine, R. R. (2005). Illusions of intentionality, shared and unshared. Behavioral and Brain
Sciences 28, 713–714.
Pusey, A. E. and C. Packer (1997). The ecology of relationships. In J. R. Krebs and N. B.
Davies (eds.), Behavioural Ecology: An Evolutionary Approach, (4th edn.) pp. 254–283.
Oxford: Blackwell Scientiﬁc.
Pylyshyn, Z. W. (1989). The role of location indexes in spatial perception: a sketch of the
FINST spatial-index model. Cognition 32, 65–97.
(2000). Situating vision in the world. Trends in Cognitive Sciences 4(5), 197–207.
and R. Storm (1988). Tracking multiple independent targets: evidence for a parallel
tracking mechanism. Spatial Vision 3(3), 179–197.
Quine, W. V. O. (1951). Two dogmas of empiricism. Philosophical Review 60, 20–43.
(1960). Word and Object. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Radcliﬀe-Brown, A. R. (1931). The Social Organization of Australian Tribes. Oceania
Monographs I. Melbourne: Macmillan.
Ramachandran, V. S. and S. Blakeslee (1998). Phantoms in the Brain: Human Nature and
the Architecture of the Mind. London: Fourth Estate.
and E. M. Hubbard (2001). Synaesthesia – a window into perception, thought and
language. Journal of Consciousness Studies 8(12), 3–34.
Reboreda, J. C., N. S. Clayton, and A. Kacelnik (1996). Species and sex diﬀer-
ences in hippocampus size in parasitic and non-parasitic cowbirds. NeuroReport 7(2),
505–508.
Reimer, M. (2002). Ordinary proper names. In G. Preyer and G. Peter (eds.), Logical Form
and Language, pp. 444–466. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Rescher, N. (1991). G. W. Leibniz’s Monadology. Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh
Press.
362 Bibliography
Ricciardelli, P., G. Baylis, and J. Driver (2000). The positive and negative of human expertise
in gaze perception. Cognition 77, B1–B14.
Ritchie, G. R. S. and S. Kirby (2007). A possible role for selective masking in the evolution
of complex, learned communication systems. In C. Lyon, C. Nehaniv, and A. Cangelosi
(eds.), The Emergence and Evolution of Linguistic Communication, pp. 387–402. London:
Springer.
Rizzo, M. and R. Hurtig (1987). Looking but not seeing: attention, perception, and eye
movements in simultanagnosia. Neurology 37, 1642–1648.
Rizzolatti, G., L. Fadiga, V. Gallese, and L. Fogassi (1996). Premotor cortex and the
recognition of motor actions. Cognitive Brain Research 3(2), 131–141.
Roberts, G. (1997). Testing mutualism: a commentary on Clements & Stephens. Animal
Behaviour 53, 1361–1362.
Robinson, J. G. (1982). Vocal systems regulating within-group spacing. In C. T. Snowdon,
C. H. Brown, and M. R. Petersen (eds.), Primate Communication, pp. 94–116. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
Ross, E. D. (1981). The aprosodias. Functional-anatomic organization of the aﬀective
components of language in the right hemisphere. Archives of Neurology 38, 561–569.
Rossi, L. N., G. Candini, G. Scarlatti, G. Rossi, E. Prina, and S. Alberti (1987). Autosomal
dominant microcephaly without mental retardation. American Journal of Diseases of
Children 141, 655–659.
Roth, A. E., V. Prasnikar, M. Okuno-Fujiwara, and S. Zamir (1991). Bargaining and
market behavior in Jerusalem, Ljubljana, Pittsburgh, and Tokyo: an experimental study.
American Economic Review 81, 1068–1095.
Rouquier, S., A. Blancher, and D. Giorgi (2000). The olfactory receptor gene repertoire
in primates and mouse: evidence for reduction of the functional fraction in primates.
Neurobiology 97(6), 2870–2874.
Rousseau, J.-J. (1755). Discours sur l’origine et les fondements de l’inégalité parmi les
hommes. (Repr. Paris: Editions Sociales 1983.)
(1781). Essai sur l’origine des langues, où il est parlé de la mélodie, et de l’imitation
musicale. In P. A. du Peyrou (ed.), Oeuvres posthumes de J. J. Rousseau, tome III, pp.
211–327. Geneva.
Rumbaugh, D. M. and J. Pate (1984a). The evolution of cognition in primates: a compara-
tive perspective. In H. Roitblat, T. G. Bever, and H. S. Terrace (eds.), Animal Cognition,
pp. 569–587. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
J. Pate (1984b). Primates’ learning by levels. In G. Greenberg and E. Tobach (eds.),
Behavioral Evolution and Integrative Levels, pp. 221–240. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erl-
baum Associates.
Russell, B. (1905). On denoting. Mind 14, 479–493.
Russell, J. L., S. Braccini, N. Buehler, M. J. Kachin, S. J. Schapiro, and W. D. Hopkins
(2005). Chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) intentional communication is not contingent upon
food. Animal Cognition 8(4), 263–272.
Ryle, G. (1949). The Concept of Mind. London: Hutchinson.
Sanders, M. D., E. K. Warrington, J. Marshall, and L. Weiskrantz (1974). ‘Blindsight’:
vision in a ﬁeld defect. Lancet 20, 707–708.
Santos, L. R., M. D. Hauser, and E. S. Spelke (2001). Recognition and categorization of
biologically signiﬁcant objects by rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta): the domain of food.
Cognition 82, 127–155.
G. M. Sulkowski, G. M. Spaepen, and M. D. Hauser (2002). Object individuation
using property/kind information in rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta). Cognition 83,
241–264.
Bibliography 363
Sarris, V. (1990). Contextual eﬀects in animal psychophysics: a comparative analysis
of the chicken’s perceptual relativity. European Bulletin of Cognitive Psychology 10,
475–489.
(1994). Contextual eﬀects in animal psychophysics: comparative perception. Behav-
ioral and Brain Sciences 17, 763–764.
Sarris, V. (1998). Frame-of-reference eﬀects in psychophysics: new experimental ﬁndings
with baby chicks. Psychologia (Greece) 5(2), 95–102.
(2000a). The bird’s visual psychophysics: a perceptual-cognitive perspective. In Pro-
ceedings of the 16th Annual Meeting of the International Society for Psychophysics. Online
at http://www.psychologie.uni-frankfurt.de/Abteil/sarris/pdf/pdf-sarris/Strasbourg.pdf.
(2000b). Perception and judgment in psychophysics: an introduction into the frame-
of-reference theories. In A. Schick, M. Meis, and C. Reckhardt (eds.), Contributions to
Psychological Acoustics, pp. 36–62. Oldenburg, Germany: BIS.
(2006). Relational Psychophysics in Humans and Animals: A Comparative-
Developmental Approach. London: Psychology Press.
Sassaman, E. A. and A. S. Zartler (1982). Mental retardation and head growth abnormali-
ties. Journal of Pediatric Psychology 7, 149–156.
Savage-Rumbaugh, E. S. (1980). Linguistically-mediated tool use and exchange by chim-
panzees. In T. Sebeok and J. Sebeok (eds.), Speaking of Apes, pp. 353–383. New York:
Plenum Press.
(1986). Ape Language: From Conditioned Response to Symbol. New York: Columbia
University Press.
D. M. Rumbaugh, and S. Boysen (1978a). Linguistically-mediated tool use and
exchange by chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). Behavioral and Brain Sciences 4, 539–554.
D. M. Rumbaugh, and S. Boysen (1978b). Symbolization, language and chimpanzees:
a theoretical reevaluation based on initial language acquisition processes in four young
Pan troglodytes. Brain and Language 6(3), 265–300.
D. M. Rumbaugh, and K. McDonald (1985). Language learning in two species of
apes. Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews 9, 653–665.
D. M. Rumbaugh, S. T. Smith, and J. Lawson (1980). Reference: the linguistic essen-
tial. Science 210, 922–925.
S. G. Shankar, and T. J. Taylor (1998). Apes, Language, and the Human Mind. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
B. J. Wilkerson, and R. Bakeman (1977). Spontaneous gestural communication
among conspeciﬁcs in the pygmy chimpanzee (Pan paniscus). In G. H. Bourne (ed.),
Progress in Ape Research, pp. 97–116. New York: Academic Press.
Sawaguchi, T. (1992). The size of the neocortex in relation to ecology and social structure
in monkeys and apes. Folia Primatologica 58(3), 130–145.
Scerif, G., J. C. Gómez, and R. W. Byrne (2004). What do Diana monkeys know about the
focus of attention of a conspecic? Animal Behaviour 68, 1239–1247.
Schacter, D. L. (1987). Implicit memory: history and current status. Journal of Experimental
Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition 13(3), 501–518.
Schank, R. C. (1982). Dynamic Memory: A Theory of Reminding and Learning in Computers
and People. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Schein, B. (2002). Events and the semantic content of thematic relations. In G. Preyer and
G. Peter (eds.), Logical Form and Language, pp. 263–344. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Scheumann, M. and J. Call (2004). The use of experimenter-given cues by South African
fur seals (Arctocephalus pusillus). Animal Cognition 7(4), 224–230.
Schlottmann, A. and L. Surian (1999). Do 9-month-olds perceive causation-at-a-distance?
Perception 28, 1105–1113.
364 Bibliography
Schuster, R. (2005). Why not chimpanzees, lions, and hyenas too? Behavioral and Brain
Sciences 28, 716–717.
Schwartz, B. L. (2005). Do nonhuman primates have episodic memory? In H. S. Terrace
and J. Metcalfe (eds.), Progress in the Study of Chimpanzee Recall and Episodic Memory,
pp. 225–241. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
and S. Evans (2001). Episodic memory in primates. American Journal of Primatol-
ogy 55, 71–85.
M. L. Hoﬀman, and S. Evans (2005). Episodic-like memory in a gorilla: a review and
new ﬁndings. Learning and Motivation 36, 226–244.
C. A. Meissner, M. L. Hoﬀman, S. Evans, and L. D. Frazier (2004). Event memory
and misinformation eﬀects in a gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla). Animal Cognition 7, 93–
100.
Searle, J. R. (1969). Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
(1975). A taxonomy of illocutionary acts. In K. Gunderson (ed.), Language, Mind,
and Knowledge. Minnesota Studies in the Philosophy of Science, Vol. VII, pp. 344–367.
Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press. (Repr. as ‘A classiﬁcation of illocutionary
acts’ in Language and Society 5, 1–23 1976.)
(1979). Expression and Meaning: Studies in the Theory of Speech Acts. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Sears, C. R. and Z. W. Pylyshyn (2000). Multiple object tracking and attentional processing.
Canadian Journal of Experimental Psychology 54(1), 1–14.
Seddon, N., J. A. Tobias, and A. Alvarez (2002). Vocal communication in the pale-winged
trumpeter (Psophia leucoptera): repertoire, context and functional reference. Behav-
iour 139, 1331–1359.
Segal, G. (2001). Two theories of names. Mind and Language 16(5), 547–563.
Segerdahl, P., W. Fields, and S. Savage-Rumbaugh (2005). Kanzi’s Primal Language: The
Cultural Initiation of Primates into Language. Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
Sells, C. J. (1977). Microcephaly in a normal school population. Pediatrics 59, 262–
265.
Semenza, C. (1997). Proper-name-speciﬁc aphasias. In H. Goodglass and A. Wingﬁeld
(eds.), Anomia: Neuroanatomical and Cognitive Correlates, pp. 115–134. San Diego, CA:
Academic Press.
and M. Zettin (1989). Evidence from aphasia for the role of proper names as pure
referring expressions. Nature 342, 678–679.
M. Zettin and F. Borgo (1998). Names and identiﬁcation: an access problem. Neuro-
case 4, 45–53.
Semple, S., K. McComb, S. Alberts, and J. Altmann (2002). Information content of female
copulation calls in yellow baboons. American Journal of Primatology 56, 43–56.
Senghas, A. (2005). Language emergence: clues from a new Bedouin Sign Language. Cur-
rent Biology 15(12), R463–R465.
Seyfarth, R. M. and D. L. Cheney (1980). The ontogeny of vervet monkeys’ alarm calling
behavior: a preliminary report. Zeitschrift für Tierpsychologie 54, 37–56.
and D. L. Cheney (1982). How monkeys see the world: a review of recent research on
East African vervet monkeys. In C. T. Snowdon, C. H. Brown, and M. R. Petersen (eds.),
Primate Communication, pp. 239–252. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
and D. M. Cheney (2003). The structure of social knowledge in monkeys. In F. B. M.
de Waal and P. L. Tyack (eds.), Animal Social Complexity: Intelligence, Culture, and
Individualized Societies, pp. 207–229. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Shannon, C. E. and W. Weaver (1963). Mathematical Theory of Communication. Cham-
paign, IL: University of Illinois Press.
Bibliography 365
Shapiro, A. D., V. M. Janik, and P. J. B. Slater (2003). A gray seal’s (Halichoerus grypus)
responses to experimenter-given pointing and directional cues. Journal of Comparative
Psychology 117, 355–362.
Shastri, L. (2001). A computational model of episodic memory formation in the hippocam-
pal system. Neurocomputing 38–40, 889–897.
(2002). Episodic memory and cortico-hippocampal interactions. Trends in Cognitive
Sciences 6, 162–168.
Sherman, P. W. (1977). Nepotism and the evolution of alarm calls. Science 197, 1246–1253.
Sherry, D. F. and Schacter, D. L. (1987). The evolution of multiple memory systems.
Psychological Review 94(4), 469–454.
Sherzer, J. (1973). Verbal and non-verbal deixis: the pointed lip gesture among the San Blas
Cuna. Language in Society 2(1), 117–131.
(1983). Kuna Ways of Speaking: An Ethnographic Perspective. Austin, TX: University
of Texas Press.
(1993). Pointed lips, thumbs up, and cheek puﬀs: some emblematic gestures in social
interactional and ethnographic context. SALSA I, 197–212.
Shettleworth, S. J. (1998). Cognition, Evolution, and Behavior. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
and J. E. Sutton (2006). Do animals know what they know? In S. Hurley
and M. Nudds (eds.), Rational Animals?, pp. 235–246. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Shields, J. (1991). Semantic-pragmatic disorder: a right hemisphere syndrome? British Jour-
nal of Disorders of Communication 26, 383–392.
Sidman, M. S., R. Rauzin, R. Lazar, S. Cunningham, W. Tailby, and P. Carrigan (1982). A
search for symmetry in the conditional discriminations of rhesus monkeys, baboons, and
children. Journal of the Experimental Analysis of Behavior 37, 23–44.
Silk, J. B., S. F. Brosnan, J. Vonk, J. Henrich, D. J. Povinelli, A. S. Richardson, S. P.
Lambeth, J. Mascaro, and S. J. Schapiro (2005). Chimpanzees are indiﬀerent to the
welfare of unrelated group members. Nature 437, 1357–1359.
Simmons, L. W. (2004). Genotypic variation in calling song and female preferences of the
ﬁeld cricket Teleogryllus oceanicus. Animal Behaviour 68, 313–322.
Simons, D. J. and C. F. Chabris (1999). Gorillas in our midst: sustained international
blindness for dynamic events. Perception 28, 1059–1074.
and D. T. Levin (1997). Change blindness. Trends in Cognitive Sciences 1, 261–267.
Sinnott, J. M. and T. L. Williamson (1999). Can macaques perceive place of articula-
tion from formant transition information? Journal of the Acoustical Society of Amer-
ica 106(2), 929–937.
Skoyles, J. R. and D. Sagan (2002). Up from Dragons. New York: McGraw-Hill.
Skyrms, B. (1996). Evolution of the Social Contract. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Small, M. F. (1993). Female Choices: Sexual Behavior of Female Primates. Ithaca, NY:
Cornell University Press.
Smith, C. (1995). Sleep states and memory processes. Behavioural Brain Research 69(1-2),
137–145.
Smith, J. D., J. Schull, J. Strote, K. McGee, R. Egnor, and L. Erb (1995). The uncertain
response in the bottlenosed dolphin (Tursiops truncatus). Journal of Experimental Psy-
chology 124, 391–408.
W. E. Shields, and D. A. Washburn (1997). The uncertain response in humans and
animals. Cognition 62, 75–97.
W. E. Shields, and D. A. Washburn (2003a). The comparative psychology of uncer-
tainty monitoring and metacognition. Behavioral and Brain Sciences 26, 317–339.
366 Bibliography
Smith, J. D., W. E. Shields, and D. A. Washburn (2003b). Inaugurating a new area of
comparative cognition research in an immediate moment of diﬃculty or uncertainty.
Behavioral and Brain Sciences 26, 358–369.
and D. A. Washburn (2005). Uncertainty monitoring and metacognition in animals.
Current Directions in Psychological Science 14(1), 19–24.
Smith, K. (2004). The evolution of vocabulary. Journal of Theoretical Biology 228(1), 127–
142.
Snowdon, C. T., C. H. Brown, and M. R. Petersen (1982). Social and environmental
determinants of primate vocalizations. In C. T. Snowdon, C. H. Brown, and M. R.
Petersen (eds.), Primate Communication, pp. 63–66. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Soames, S. (2002). Beyond Rigidity: The Unﬁnished Semantic Agenda of Naming and Neces-
sity. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Sober, E. (1992). The evolution of altruism: correlation, cost, and beneﬁt. Biology and
Philosophy 7, 177–187.
(1993). Philosophy of Biology. Boulder, CO: Westview Press.
Sole, L. M., S. J. Shettleworth, and P. J. Bennett (2003). Uncertainty in pigeons. Psycho-
nomic Bulletin and Review 10(3), 738–745.
Soproni, K., A. Miklosi, J. Topal, and V. Csanyi (2001). Comprehension of human com-
municative signs in pet dogs (Canis familiaris). Journal of Comparative Psychology 115,
122–126.
Sperber, D. and D. Wilson (1986). Relevance: Communication and Cognition. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Stainton, R. (2004a). In defense of non-sentential assertion. In Semantics vs. Pragmatics.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
(2004b). The pragmatics of non-sentences. In L. Horn and G. Ward (eds.), Handbook
of Pragmatics, pp. 266–287. Oxford: Blackwell.
Stamps, J. (1995). Motor learning and the value of familiar space. The American Natural-
ist 146(1), 41–58.
Stander, P. E. (1992). Cooperative hunting in lions: the role of the individual. Behavioral
Ecology and Sociobiology 29, 445–454.
Stanley, J. and T. Williamson (2001). Knowing how. Journal of Philosophy 98, 411–444.
Steels, L. (1999). The Talking Heads Experiment, Vol. I: Words and Meanings. Antwerp:
Laboratorium. Special pre-edition.
Stein, B. E., M. T. Wallace, and T. R. Stanford (1998). Single neuron electrophysiology.
In W. Bechtel and G. Graham (eds.), A Companion to Cognitive Science, pp. 433–449.
Oxford: Blackwell.
Stevenson, J. G., R. E. Hutchison, J. B. Hutchison, B. C. R. Bertram and W. H. Thorpe
(1970). Individual recognition by auditory cues in the common tern (Sterna hirundo).
Nature 226, 562–563.
Stidd, S. C. (2004). Proper names, predicative uses: an essay on logical form. Language
Sciences 26, 173–215.
Strawson, P. F. (1959). Individuals: An Essay in Descriptive Metaphysics. London: Methuen.
Stromswold, K. (2001). The heritability of language: a review and metaanalysis of twin,
adoption, and linkage studies. Language 77(4), 647–723.
Suddendorf, T. and J. Busby (2003a). Like it or not? The mental time travel debate: reply to
Clayton et al.. Trends in Cognitive Sciences 7(10), 437–438.
and J. Busby (2003b). Mental time travel in animals? Trends in Cognitive Sciences 7(9),
391–396.
Suddendorf, T. and M. C. Corballis (1997). Mental time travel and the evolution of the
human mind. Genetic, Social, and General Psychology Monographs 123, 133–167.
Bibliography 367
Symons, L. A., K. Lee, C. C. Cedrone, and M. Nishimura (2004). What are you looking at?
Acuity for triadic eye gaze. Journal of General Psychology 131, 451–469.
Tager-Flusberg, H. and K. Sullivan (2000). A componential view of theory of mind:
evidence from Williams syndrome. Cognition 76(1), 59–90.
Talmy, L. (2000). Toward a Cognitive Semantics (2 vols.). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Tammero, L. F. and M. H. Dickinson (2002). Collision-avoidance and landing responses
are mediated by separate pathways in the fruitﬂy, Drosophila melanogaster. Journal of
Experimental Biology 205, 2785–2798.
Tanner, J. E. and R. W. Byrne (1999). The development of spontaneous gestural commun-
ication in a group of zoo-living lowland gorillas. In S. T. Parker, R. W. Mitchell, and
H. L. Miles (eds.), The Mentalities of Gorillas and Orangutans: Comparative Perspectives,
pp. 211–239. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Tanner, N. M. (1981). On Becoming Human. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Tavares, M. C. H. and C. Tomaz (2002). Working memory in capuchin monkeys (Cebus
apella). Behavioural Brain Research 131, 131–137.
Thierry, B. (1990). Feedback loop between kinship and dominance: the macaque model.
Journal of Theoretical Biology 145, 511–521.
Thompson, R., D. Oden, and S. Boysen (1997). Language-naive chimpanzees
(Pan troglodytes) judge relations between relations in a conceptual matching-to-
sample task. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Animal Behavior Processes 23(1),
31–43.
Thompson, R. K. R. and D. L. Oden (1998). Why monkeys and pigeons, unlike certain
apes, cannot reason analogically. In Advances in Analogy Research: Integration of Theory
and Data from the Cognitive, Computational, and Neural Sciences. Soﬁa: New Bulgarian
University.
and D. L. Oden (2000). Categorical perception and conceptual judgments by non-
human primates: the paleological monkey and the analogical ape. Cognitive Science: A
Multidisciplinary Journal 24(3), 363–396.
Thorndike, E. L. (1898). Animal intelligence: an experimental study of the associative
processes in animals. Psychological Review: Series of Monograph Supplements 2(4), 1–
109.
Thorpe, W. H. (1959). Talking birds and the mode of action of the vocal apparatus of birds.
Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London 132, 441–455.
Tinbergen, N. (1948). Social releasers and the experimental method required for their study.
The Wilson Bulletin 60(1), 6–51.
(1952). ‘Derived’ activities: their causation, biological signiﬁcance, origin and eman-
cipation during evolution. Quarterly Review of Biology 27, 1–32.
(1964). The evolution of signalling devices. In W. Etkin (ed.), Social Behavior and
Organization among Vertebrates. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Todd, J. J. and R. Marois (2004). Capacity limit of visual short-term memory in human
posterior parietal cortex. Nature 428, 751–754.
Tolman, E. (1927). A behaviorist’s deﬁnition of consciousness. Psychological Review 34,
433–439.
(1938). The determiners of behavior at a choice point. Psychological Review 45, 1–41.
Tomasello, M. (1990). Cultural transmission in the tool use and communicatory signaling
of chimpanzees? In S. T. Parker and K. R. Gibson (eds.), ‘Language’ and Intelligence in
Monkeys and Apes: Comparative Developmental Perspectives, pp. 274–311. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
(1993). It’s imitation, not mimesis. Behavioral and Brain Sciences 16(4), 771–772.
and J. Call (1997). Primate Cognition. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
368 Bibliography
Tomasello, M., J. Call, and A. Gluckman (1997). Comprehension of novel communicative
signs by apes and human children. Child Development 68, 1067–1080.
J. Call, and B. Hare (1998). Five primate species follow the visual gaze of conspeciﬁcs.
Animal Behaviour 55, 1063–1069.
J. Call, and B. Hare (2003). Chimpanzees understand psychological states: the ques-
tion is which ones and to what extent. Trends in Cognitive Sciences 7, 153–156.
Tomasello, M., M. Carpenter, J. Call, T. Behne, and H. Moll (2005). Understanding and
sharing intentions: the origins of cultural cognition. Behavioral and Brain Sciences 28,
675–735.
D. Gust, and T. Forst (1989). A longitudinal investigation of gestural communication
in young chimpanzees. Primates 30, 35–50.
Treichler, F. R., M. A. Raghanti, and D. N. van Tilburg (2003). Linking of serially ordered
lists by macaque monkeys (macaca mulatta): list position inﬂuences. Journal of Experi-
mental Psychology: Animal Behavior Processes 29(3), 211–221.
Treisman, A. (1985). Preattentive processing in vision. Computer Vision Graphics, and Image
Processing 31(2), 156–177.
(2004). Psychological issues in selective attention. In M. Gazzaniga (ed.), The Cogni-
tive Neurosciences III, pp. 529–544. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
and G. Gelade (1980). A feature integration theory of attention. Cognitive Psychol-
ogy 12, 97–136.
and H. Schmidt (1982). Illusory conjunctions in the perception of objects. Cognitive
Psychology 14, 107–141.
Trevathan, W. R. (1987). Human Birth. New York: Aldine de Gruyter.
Trick, L. M. and Z. W. Pylyshyn (1993). What enumeration studies tell us about spatial
attention: evidence for limited capacity pre-attentive processing. Journal of Experimental
Psychology: Human Perception and Performance 19(2), 331–351.
and Z. W. Pylyshyn (1994). Why are small and large numbers enumerated diﬀerently?
A limited capacity pre-attentive stage in vision. Psychological Review 10, 1–23.
Trivers, R. L. (1971). The evolution of reciprocal altruism. Quarterly Review of Bio-
logy 46(4), 35–57.
Trut, L. N. (1999). Early canid domestication: the farm fox experiment. American Scien-
tist 87, 160–169.
Tschudin, A., J. Call, R. Dunbar, G. Harris, and C. van der Elst (2001). Comprehension of
signs by dolphins (Tursiops truncatus). Journal of Comparative Psychology 115, 100–105.
Tulving, E. (1983). Elements of Episodic Memory. London: Oxford University Press. 115,
100–105.
(1984). Précis of Elements of Episodic Memory. Behavioral and Brain Sciences 7, 223–
268.
(1985). How many memory systems are there? American Psychologist. 40, 385–398.
(1999). Episodic vs semantic memory. In R. A. Wilson and F. C. Keil (eds.), The MIT
Encyclopedia of the Cognitive Sciences, pp. 278–280. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(2005). Episodic memory and autonoesis: uniquely human? In H. S. Terrace
and J. Metcalfe (eds.), The Missing Link in Cognition: Origins of Self-Reﬂective
Consciousness, pp. 3–56. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
and H. J. Markowitsch (1998). Episodic and declarative memory: role of the
hippocampus. Hippocampus 8, 198–204.
Tyler, H. R. (1968). Abnormalities of perception with defective eye movements (balint’s
syndrome). Cortex 3, 154–171.
Tyler, L. K., H. E. Moss, M. R. Durrant-Peatﬁeld, and J. P. Levy (2000). Conceptual
structure and the structure of concepts: a distributed account of category-speciﬁc
deﬁcits. Brain and Language 75, 195–231.
Uexküll, J. von (1909). Umwelt und Innenwelt der Tiere. Berlin: Springer Verlag.
Bibliography 369
Ujhelyi, M. (1996). Is there any intermediate stage between animal communication and
language? Journal of Theoretical Biology 180, 71–76.
(1998). Long-call structure in apes as a possible precursor for language. In J. R.
Hurford, M. Studdert-Kennedy, and C. Knight (eds.), Approaches to the Evolution of
Language: Social and Cognitive Bases, pp. 177–189. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Uvnas-Moberg, K. (1989). Oxytocin may mediate the beneﬁts of positive social interaction
and emotions. Psychoneuroendocrinology 23(8), 819–835.
Vallar, G. (1998). Spatial hemineglect in humans. Trends in Cognitive Sciences 2, 87–97.
Vallortigara, G., L. Regolin, and F. Marconato (2005). Visually inexperienced chicks
exhibit spontaneous preference for biological motion patterns. PLoS Biology 3(7), e208.
(Public Library of Science, online journal.)
VanRullen, R. and C. Koch (2003). Competition and selection during visual processing of
natural scenes and objects. Journal of Vision 3(1), 75–85.
Vauclair, J. and J. Fagot (1993). Can a Saussurian ape be endowed with episodic memory
only? Behavioral and Brain Sciences 16(4), 772–773.
Veá, J. J. and J. Sabater-Pi (1998). Spontaneous pointing behaviour in the wild pygmy
chimpanzee (Pan paniscus). Folia Primatologica 69, 289–290.
Vehrencamp, S. L. and J. W. Bradbury (1984). Mating systems and ecology. In J. R. Krebs
and N. B. Davies (eds.), Behavioural Ecology: An Evolutionary Approach, pp. 251–278.
Oxford: Blackwell Scientiﬁc Publications.
Victor, M. and P. I. Yakovlev (1955). S. S. Korsakoﬀ’s psychic disorder in conjunction with
peripheral neuritis; a translation of Korsakoﬀ’s original article with comments on the
author and his contribution to clinical medicine. Neurology 5(6), 394–406.
Vogel, E. K. and M. G. Machizawa (2004). Neural activity predicts individual diﬀerences
in visual working memory capacity. Nature 428, 748–751.
von Fersen, L., C. D. Wynne, J. D. Delius, and J. E. Staddon (1991). Transitive
inference formation in pigeons. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Animal Behavior
Processes 17(3), 334–341.
von Frisch, K. (1974). Decoding the language of the bee. Science 185, 663–668.
Vygotsky, L. S. (1988). Development of the higher mental functions. In K. Richardson
and S. Sheldon (eds.), Cognitive Development to Adolescence, pp. 61–80. New York:
Wiley.
Waiter, G. D., J. H. Williams, A. D. Murray, A. Gilchrist, D. I. Perrett, and A. Whiten
(2004). A voxel-based investigation of brain structure in male adolescents with autistic
spectrum disorder. Neuroimage 22(2), 619–625.
J. H. Williams, A. D. Murray, A. Gilchrist, D. I. Perrett, and A. Whiten (2005).
Structural white matter deﬁcits in high-functioning individuals with autistic spectrum
disorder: a voxel-based investigation. Neuroimage 24(2), 455–461.
Walker, S. (1983). Animal Thought. London: Routledge and Kegan Paul.
Wang, P. P., S. Doherty, S. B. Rourke, and U. Bellugi (1995). Unique proﬁle of visuo-
perceptual skills in a genetic syndrome. Brain and Cognition 29(1), 54–65.
Waser, P. M. (1975). Experimental playbacks show vocal mediation of intergroup avoidance
in a forest monkey. Nature 255, 56–58.
(1976). Cercocebus albigena: site attachment, avoidance, and intergroup spacing.
American Naturalist 110, 911–935.
(1977). Sound localization by monkeys: a ﬁeld experiment. Behavioral Ecology and
Sociobiology 2, 427–431.
Washburn, D., R. Thompson, and D. Oden (1997). Monkeys trained with same/diﬀerent
symbols do not match relations. Paper presented at the meeting of the Psychonomic
Society, Philadelphia, PA.
370 Bibliography
Wasserman, E. A., J. A. Hugart, and K. Kirkpatrick-Steger (1995). Pigeons show
same–diﬀerent conceptualization after training with complex visual stimuli. Journal of
Experimental Psychology: Animal Behavior Processes 21, 248–252.
Watanabe, S., J. Sajamoto, and M. Wakita (1995). Pigeons’ discrimination of paintings by
Monet and Picasso. Journal of the Experimental Analysis of Behavior 63, 165–174.
Watson, J., G. Gergely, V. Csanyi, J. Topal, M. Gacsi, and Z. Sarkozi (2001). Distinguishing
logic from association in the solution of an invisible displacement task by children
(Homo sapiens) and dogs (Canis familiaris): using negation of disjunction. Journal of
Comparative Psychology 115, 219–226.
Weiskrantz, L. (1986). Blindsight: A Case Study and Implications. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
(1997). Consciousness Lost and Found: a Neuropsychological Exploration. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Wells, G. L. and E. A. Olson (2003). Eyewitness testimony. Annual Review of Psychology 54,
277–295.
Whitehead, A. N. (1919). An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Natural Knowledge.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Whiten, A. and R. W. Byrne (1988). Tactical deception in primates. Behavioral and Brain
Sciences 11, 233–244.
J. Goodall, W. McGrew, T. Nishida, V. Reynolds, Y. Sugiyama, C. E. G. Tutin, R. W.
Wrangham, and C. Boesch (1999). Cultures in chimpanzees. Nature 399, 682–685.
V. Horner, and F. B. de Waal (2005). Conformity to cultural norms of tool use in
chimpanzees. Nature 437, 737–740.
V. Horner, C. Litchﬁeld, and S. Marshall-Pescini (2004). How do apes ape? Learning
and Behaviour 32, 36–52.
Whittingham, L. A., A. Kirkconnell, and L. M. Ratcliﬀe (1992). Diﬀerences in song
and sexual dimorphism between Cuban and North American Red-winged Blackbirds
(Agelaius phoeniceus). Auk 109, 928–933.
A. Kirkconnell, and L. M. Ratcliﬀe (1996). Breeding behavior, social organization
and morphology of Red-shouldered (Agelaius assimilis) and Tawny-shouldered (A.
humerulis) blackbirds. Condor 98, 832–836.
A. Kirkconnell, and L. M. Ratcliﬀe (1997). The context and function of duet and
solo songs in the Red-shouldered Blackbird. Wilson Bulletin 109, 279–289.
Wilkins, D. (2003). Why pointing with the index ﬁnger is not a universal (in sociocultural
and semiotic terms). In S. Kita (ed.), Pointing: Where Language, Culture, and Cognition
Meet, pp. 171–215. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Wilkins, W. K. and J. Wakeﬁeld (1995). Brain evolution and neurolinguistic preconditions.
Behavioral and Brain Sciences 18, 161–226.
Williams, G. C. (1966). Adaptation and Natural Selection: A Critique of Some Current
Evolutionary Thought. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Williams, J. H., G. D. Waiter, O. Perra, D. I. Perrett, and A. Whiten (2005). An fMRI study
of joint attention experience. Neuroimage 25(1), 133–140.
A. Whiten, and T. Singh (2004). A systematic review of action imitation in autistic
spectrum disorder. Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders 34(3), 285–299.
Wilson, D. (1999). Relevance and relevance theory. In R. A. Wilson and F. C. Keil (eds.),
The MIT Encyclopedia of the Cognitive Sciences, pp. 719–720. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Wilson, D. S. (1998). Hunting, sharing, and multilevel selection: the tolerated-theft model
revisited. Current Anthropology 19(1), 73–97.
and E. Sober (1994). Re-introducing group selection to the human behavioral
sciences. Behavioral and Brain Sciences 17(4), 585–654.
Bibliography 371
Wilson, E. O. (2005). Kin selection as the key to altruism: its rise and fall. Social
Research 72, 159–168.
and B. Hölldobler (2005). Eusociality: origin and consequences. Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences of the U.S.A. 102, 13367–13371.
Wittgenstein, L. (1922). Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus. London: Routledge. (Trans. C. K.
Ogden from the original German ‘Logisch-Philosophische Abhandlung’ in Annalen der
Naturphilosophie 14 (1921), 185–262.).
(1953). Philosophical Investigations. Oxford: Basil Blackwell. (Trans. G. E. M.
Anscombe from the author’s Philosophische Untersuchungen, unpub. in his lifetime.)
Wolpoﬀ, M. H., B. Mannheim, A. Mann, J. Hawks, R. Caspari, K. R.Rosenberg, D. W.
Frayer, G. W. Gill, and G. Clark (2004). Why not the Neandertals? World Archaeo-
logy 36(4), 527–546.
Wood, D. (1988). How Children Think and Learn. Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
Wrangham, R. W. (1975). The Behavioral Ecology of Chimpanzees in Gombe National Park,
Tanzania. Ph.D. thesis, University of Cambridge.
Wu, X. and W. B. Levy (2001). Simulating symbolic distance eﬀects in the transitive
inference problem. Neurocomputing 38–40, 1603–1610.
Wynne, C. D. L. (2001). Animal Cognition: The Mental Lives of Animals. Basingstoke:
Palgrave.
Wynne-Edwards, V. C. (1962). Animal Dispersion in Relation to Social Behavior. London:
Oliver and Boyd.
Young, M. and E. Wasserman (1997). Entropy detection by pigeons: response to mixed
visual displays after same–diﬀerent discrimination training. Journal of Experimental
Psychology: Animal Behavior Processes 23, 157–170.
Zahavi, A. (1975). Mate selection—a selection for a handicap. Journal of Theoretical Bio-
logy 53, 205–214.
(1977). The cost of honesty (further remarks on the handicap principle). Journal of
Theoretical Biology 67, 603–605.
and A. Zahavi (1997). The Handicap Principle: A Missing Piece of Darwin’s Puzzle.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Zak, P. J., R. Kurzban, and W. T. Matzner (2004). The neurobiology of trust. Annals of the
New York Academy of Sciences 1032, 224–227.
Zatorre, R. J., A. R. Halpern, D. W. Perry, E. Meyer, and A. C. Evans (1996). Hearing
in the mind’s ear: a PET investigation of musical imagery and perception. Journal of
Cognitive Neuroscience 8(1), 29–46.
Zentall, T. R., T. S. Clement, R. S. Bhatt, and J. Allen (2001). Episodic-like memory in
pigeons. Psychonomic Bulletin and Review 8(4), 685–690.
Zhang, S., F. Bock, A. Si, J. Tautz, and M. V. Srinivasan (2005). Visual working memory
in decision making by honey bees. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of
the USA 102(14), 5250–6255.
Zuberbühler, K., D. L. Cheney, and R. M. Seyfarth (1999). Conceptual semantics in a
non-human primate. Journal of Comparative Psychology 113(1), 33–42.
Index
Authors of single- and double-authored works are indexed here. For multiple-authored works,
only the ﬁrst author is indexed.
Abbott, B. 6, 139
abstraction 12, 22, 24–29, 56
abstract objects 41
activation potentials 56
active/passive pairs 154
adaptation 4, 248, 250–251
adaptationism 280
aerobic metabolism 247
aerodynamic theory 243
aﬀective content 282
aﬀective prosody 281–282
aﬀordances 62
Agent 45, 142–143, 145–150, 331 See also
Object, participant roles, Patient, role
markers, Theta roles, thematic roles
Agnetta, B. 218
Aich, H. 180
Aitchison, J. xi
alarm calls 225–228, 230–234, 236, 239–240,
257, 276, 332
Alcock, J. 187, 194
Alex (parrot) 28–29, 45
Alexander, R. 191
Allen, C. 9, 18, 44, 46
alliances 292
Allison, A. 295
Allwood, J. 5
Altmann, S. 41
altriciality 196, 322
altruism 211, 234, 243, 252, 254–255, 257,
259, 261–262, 275, 301, 305, 314–315, 322,
324, 333
ambiguity 154
amnesia 66, 68, 87
amodal symbols 59
analogue signals 184
analytic sentences 83–86
Anderson, J. 206, 213
animacy 41–45, 87, 145
anomia 136–137
ants 258
apes 24–25, 27, 39, 40, 50, 72, 82, 138, 199,
203, 206, 210–214, 216–218, 222–223,
237–238, 241, 244, 253, 308–309, 331–332
See also Austin, bonobos, chimpanzees,
gorillas, Kanzi, King, orangutans, Panzee,
Rock, Sherman
Aquinas 103
Arabian babbler birds 286–287
Arbib, M. 95, 186
arbitrariness of signals 183–185, 200, 203,
225–226, 234–235, 237, 320
Arcadi, A. 180–181, 189
Aristotle 83, 103
arms race (evolutionary) 251
Armstrong, D. F. 186
Armstrong, D. M. 101
Arrernte 221, 225
Arrowood, P. 179
Artiﬁcial Intelligence 9
asserting 176
association xiii
asymmetric predicates 148, 151
atomic signals 189
attention 37, 95, 100, 104, 139, 204–205,
224–225, 240, 331
374 Index
attention getting actions 207–208
audience eﬀects 231, 233
audition 99, 106, 113, 125, 127–128, 276
Austin, J. 170, 184, 211
Austin (chimpanzee) 214, 222
Australian aborigines 263
australopithecines ix, 193–194, 238–239, 242
autism 202, 207, 213, 225, 312, 318, 319
autonoesis 69
awareness 46, 56, 76
Avicenna 103
Axelrod, R. 222, 261, 264, 266, 271, 301, 324
babies 201, 203, 211, 220–222, 241, 320,
322, 328
baboons 44, 48–49, 111, 179
Baillargeon, R. 39
Baldwin, D. 221
Barai 222
Barbary macaques 181
Barnard, A. 262
Baron-Cohen, S. 213, 312
Barrett, H. 43–44, 86
Barsalou, L. 55–59, 120, 128
Barth, J. 219–220, 310
Barwise, K. 124
Bates, E. 213
Beaken, M. xi
Beauquin, C. 15
bees 47, 258
begging 209–211
Behne, T. 43, 310
belief 6, 116–117
Belle (chimpanzee) 208
Bellugi, U. 109
Beltman, J. 250
Benard, J. 47
beneﬁt of signalling to the sender 168–169
Bennett, J. 160
Bergen 101
Bergman, T. 49, 81, 135
Bergstrom, C. 283
Bermejo 189
Bermúdez, J. 2, 6, 27, 32, 89, 164
Berntson, G. 238
Bertram, B. 259
Bickerton, D. xi, 34–35, 55, 70, 133–136, 162,
177, 246, 318, 319
Biebach, H. 7
Bihrle, A. 109
biological motion 38, 41–45, 52–54, 65, 149
bipedalism 196
birds See Alex, Arabian babbler birds,
birdsong, bower birds, chickens, cowbirds,
garden warblers, pale-winged trumpeters,
parrots, pigeons, pinyon jays,
red-shouldered blackbirds, red-winged
blackbirds, reed warblers, scrub jays,
starlings, swallows, tits
birdsong 179, 197–198, 280, 282–283
Birkhead, T. 283
Blakeslee, S. 100
Blaschke, M. 212
blindsight 100
Bloom, P. 177
blue jays 273–274, 317
Bodamer, M. 207
Boehm, C. 191
Boesch, C. 316
Bogin, B. 196
Bolhuis, J. 42
Bond, A. 47
Bonda, E. 52–53
bonobos 77, 189, 194–195, 197, 210–211, 213,
215, 236, 240, 259, 321 See also Kanzi
(bonobo)
Bonvillian, J. 213
Borer, H. 144
Boroditsky, L. 67
Bouchard, T. 313
Boutsen, L. 108–109, 152
bower birds 179
Bowles, S. 260
box notation 126–128, 131, 147–153,
155–156, 163, 224, 227–228, 331
Boyd, R. 267, 289–290, 302, 324
Boysen, S. 238
Bradbury, J. 192
brain 17, 124
brain size 239
Brannon, E. 48
Braque, G. 23
Bräuer, J. 205–207
Bredart, S. 136
Bregman, A. 113
Brockmann, H. 258
Brockmole, J. 40
Brosnan, S. 233, 323
Brown, C. 181
Brown, P. 274
Brown, W. 266, 273
Brown, S. 287
Index 375
Brownell, C. 318
bridges (evolutionary) 244–246
Buchanan-Smith, H. 193
Buckingham, G. 262
bumblebees 243, 305
Burge, T. 138
Burgess, N. 70
Burling, R. 176, 183–184
Busby, J. 78
Butcher, C. 241
Butterworth, G. 214, 220–221, 223
Buzsaki, G. 79
Byrne, R. 76, 187, 203–204, 208–209, 213,
215, 308–309
Call, T. 39, 77–78, 207, 213, 215, 218, 237,
310–312
Calvin, W. 246
Camaioni, L. 221
Camerer, C. 325
cancer 294
canids See dogs, hyenas, Siberian foxes,
wolves
captivity 192, 201, 204, 210–216, 221,
223–236, 239–240, 332
capuchin monkeys 26–27, 181, 213, 226, 311,
323
Caramazza, A. 44, 136
Carnap, R. 3, 95
Carrasco, M. 106
Carruthers, P. 33
Carstairs-McCarthy, A. xi, 156
Carter, C. 328
catalytic cycles 14
cats 52, 99
causality 43
Cerella, J. 110
Cezanne, P. 23
Chabris, C. 111
Chalmeau, R. 314
Chalmers, M. 46
Chalmers, N. 181
Chan, W. 18
change blindness 111–112
Cheney, D. 33, 48, 81, 135, 215, 226,
230–232
Cheng, M. 179
Cherry, E. 113
chickens 22, 32, 39, 42, 47, 119, 151, 226,
230–231
childbirth 197
children 38–40, 43–44, 69, 202–203, 310, 312,
318 See also babies
chimpanzees 23, 26–28, 40, 44, 72–74, 79,
82–83, 111, 180–181, 189, 194–195,
197–203, 206–214, 218–221, 224, 233, 236,
238, 257, 259, 272, 310–317, 323 See also
Austin, Panzee, Rock, Sherman
chronology of evolution ix, x
chunking 91–92
Chomsky, N. 87, 90, 156, 174, 177, 246, 285,
328
Churchland, P. 119
Clark, A. 26, 37
Clark, S. 82
clause (size of a simple clause) 94–95
Clayton, N. 7, 71–72, 78, 82
Cleland, A. 182
Clements, M. 272–274, 317
Clore, G. 111
Clutton-Brock, T. 193
co-evolution 67, 188, 194, 240, 278, 301,
319–320, 330
co-evolution of semantics and pragmatics 50
cocktail-party eﬀect 113
code 178
cognition 49, 56–58, 106, 129, 131, 261, 332
cognitive linguistics 5
cognitive resources 304
Cohen, L. 107, 112
Coleman, M. 276
Collins, S. 286
Colombo, M. 26–27
colourblindness 115
common nouns 137
communication 21, 153–154, 167–169
Communicative Act Foundation
Hypothesis 173
communicative cooperation 270–271, 305,
321
communicative repertoire 188–190, 194
comparison 150–151
competence 59, 90
competition 290, 293, 308, 315
complex language 280
components of concepts 53, 54
components of language xi
compositionality 281
computer modelling 51
concepts 5, 7, 9–13, 15–29, 35, 51, 54–56, 60,
63, 96, 97, 113, 115–116, 118–120, 123, 133,
154, 226, 229
376 Index
conjunction 114, 145, 163
Conjunctivist representation 146–147, 155
consciousness 33, 234
contact calls 181
context-dependence 119, 121, 126, 148–151,
331
continuity (between non-humans and
humans) 9–11, 18, 41, 51, 56, 164, 308
convention 115, 203
conventionalization 198
Convergence Zones 54–55
Cook, R. 29, 77–78
cooperation 191, 209, 211, 216–217, 219,
222–225, 234, 243, 247, 250–255, 261–270,
273–275, 288, 290–291, 293, 296, 298, 302,
305, 307–308, 311, 313–317, 319–320, 322,
325, 332
Cooperative environment hypothesis 216
Cooperative Principle 252–253
coordination between signallers 180
copular sentences 146
Corballis, M. 67, 78, 82, 186
Corp, N. 187, 204
Costa, P. 313
costly signals 286, 288–289, 292, 304
cotton-top tamarin monkeys 181–182, 272,
274
counting 91
courtship 197, 277–279
Coussi-Korbel, S. 191
Cowan, N. 92, 112
cowbirds 7
Cowlishaw, G. 180
Cox, C. 180
Craik, K. 51
crickets 279
critical period 301
Crockford, C. 181
Cronin, K. 273
cross-modal representations 54–55
Cruse, D. 145
Csibra, G. 318
cued representations 70
cultural group selection 293, 300–302, 304
culture 158, 249–250, 260
Cunningham, E. 283
Cynx, J. 82
cystic ﬁbrosis 295
D’Amato, M. 24, 26–27
Daly, M. 258
Damasio, A. 54, 57
Darwin, C. ix, 17, 37–38, 211, 278–282, 284,
294, 298–300, 309
Davidson, D. 10–12, 17, 29, 33, 160
Davis, B. 186
Dawkins, R. 135, 177, 256, 260, 262, 288, 294
Deacon, T. 25–26, 237
death 43–44
de Blois, S. 39
de Brazza’s monkeys 188
DeBruine, L. 262, 326–327
deception 187, 192, 204, 208–209, 232, 253,
272, 307
declarative content 63–64
declarative knowledge 81
declarative memory 6, 59, 60, 63, 67
declarative pointing 211–213, 215, 220, 223
declarative sentence type 63
deﬁniteness 154
Dehaene, S. 91, 107, 112
deixis 90, 117, 146, 157, 223–225, 235,
240–242, 332 See also indexicality
Dennett, D. 3, 15, 21, 115, 254
denotation 117, 141, 228–230
Deputte, B. 180, 195
Deruelle, C. 111
Descartes, R. 9, 34, 309
descriptive meaning 170–176
desires 6
despotic-nepotistic societies 190
Dessalles, J-L. 261, 274, 283, 2870–288,
290–293, 297, 302, 304
detached representations 70
de Waal, F. 190, 194, 203, 233, 272, 323
dialect 301
Diana monkeys 206, 227–230
Dickinson, A. 71
Dickinson, M. 18, 243
Digweed, S. 226
digital signals 184
Di Paolo, E. 261
Discourse Representation Theory 125, 139,
140
displaced reference 36, 40–41
displacement (invisible) 38–41
displacement (visible) 38–41
DNA 245–247
Dobzhansky, T. ix
Doctor Dolittle 60
dogs 24, 39–40, 115, 218–219
Doherty, J. 279
Index 377
dolphins 30, 218
domain-speciﬁcity 48, 80
Domb, L. 179
domesticated species 218–219
domestication 218–220, 237
dominance 47–49, 190–191, 203
Donald, M. 69, 80–82, 211
Doré, F. 39
dorsal pathway 99–102, 103, 114, 121, 207,
224
Down Syndrome 109–110
Dowty, D. 145, 148
dreaming (in rats) 75–76
Dretske, F. 169
drift xiii
Driver, J. 106, 107
drosophila 279
Dudai, Y. 101
Dugatkin, L. 266, 272, 296
Dummett, M. 88, 120
Dunbar, R. 187–188, 289, 298, 301
Dupré, J. 9–11
dualism 9, 34
dual attention 209–210, 220
duetting 180, 183, 195, 281, 284
Dusek, J. 47, 48
dyadic communication 167, 173, 176,
183–184, 208
dynamic features 157–159
earthworms 17, 37–38
economics 324
Eda-Fujiwara, H. 283
Eddy, T. 205, 210
Edelman, S. 62
egalitarian-individualistic societies
190
Eggan, F. 263
Egnor, R. 181–182, 186, 234, 323
Eichenbaum, H. 47–48, 70
elaborate signals 278
Ellington, C. 243
Elugardo, R. 138
Emery, N. 206–207
empathy 61–63, 163, 201, 203, 307
emulation 198, 199–202
Enactive Perception 62
Enard, W. 246
Enquist, M. 179, 268
environmental eﬀects 236, 238, 242
‘episodic culture’ 80–81
episodic memory 6, 7, 40, 65–77, 79–83,
85–87, 96, 137, 267, 332
equivalence relation 28
Erdal, D. 191
essentialism 86–87
Etienne, A. 39
Ettlinger, G. 212
eusocial species 258
Evans, C. 226
Evans, H. 258
Evans, S. 72
event identiﬁcation 96
Event Semantics 144, 148–149, 151, 160
events 94, 96, 104–105, 117, 148–151, 153,
157–163
Evolutionary Game Theory 255
evolutionary theory 243–249, 251–252,
254–255, 277, 333
Ewert, J-P. 15
existence 103
existential propositions 89
existential quantiﬁer 114
experimental situations 35
explanation 15
extension 228–229
extensional meaning 4, 20–21, 97
eye-witness testimony 75, 112
face-saving behaviour 274
faces 262, 325–327
facial expressions 186, 201
Fagot, J. 82, 111
fair play 322–325
false belief 307, 312
Fang, F. 102
Farah, M. 58, 107–108, 152
Faust ix
Fay, N. 330
feature-placing 37, 89
features 53, 105–107, 109, 130, 132, 157, 163
feature bundles 132–135, 156
feedback loop (in evolution) 251
Fehr, E. 322
Feinberg, D. 286
Feldman, M. 250
ﬁctitious objects 6, 7
Figueredo, A. 313
File Change Semantics 139–140
ﬁnches 237
Fischer, J. 181
Fiset, S. 40
378 Index
Fisher, R. 278–279
Fitch, W. T. 2, 233, 263–264, 283–284, 304
Flavell, J. 33
ﬂies 18
focal attention 92–93, 101–102
Fodor, J. 5, 10, 12–15, 118
Foley, W. 222
food calls 225–226, 233–234, 236, 239
foraging 50
Fortin, N. 82
Foster, K. 258
four (the magical number) 90–96, 103, 112,
121, 331
fovea 100–101
FOXP2 246
Fragaszy, D. 191
frame-of-reference systems 119
Franco, F. 220
Freedman, D. 218
freewill 18, 29
Frege, G. 98, 102, 118, 123–124
Fremouw, T. 110–111
frogs 179
frontal cortex 225
Frost, P. 286
Fukatsu, R. 136
fumbling 310–311
functional clusters 118, 120, 332
functional similarity 11
function of language 177
Furness, W. 213
fur seals 218
future 50, 72, 76, 78
fuzziness 17, 97
Gabriel, S. 295
Gächter, S. 322
Gagnon, S. 39
Gaillard, F. 15
Galantucci, B. 330
Gallese, V. 56, 60–62, 118, 120, 332
Gallo, A. 314
game theory 222
Gärdenfors, P. 5, 44, 51, 70, 76, 78
garden warblers 7
Gardner, B. 207, 213
Gasper, K. 111
gaze-alternation 209
gaze-following 205–207, 311
Geissmann, T. 195, 281
Gelade, G. 106
generalization 22–24, 28, 65, 118
generative approach to language 90
generativity 46
genes 232–233
genetic control in sexual selection 279
genetic factors 192, 238
gene selection 294–295, 300
Gergely, G. 43, 318
Gerhardt, H. 279
gestural origins of language 186
Geurts, B. 139
gibbons 180, 189, 195, 197, 279, 281
Gibeault, S. 73
Gibson, J. 62, 197
Giedd, J. 239
Gilgamesh 44
Gintis, H. 275, 302, 304, 324–325
Giurfa, M. 47
Glaeser, E. 326
global attention 37, 103–113, 121, 126–127,
151–153, 157, 161, 331
goal-directed action 43
goats 206, 218
Godwin-Austen, R. 108
Goethe, J. ix
Goldenberg, G. 58
Goldin-Meadow, S. 241
Gómez, J. 50, 138, 186, 199, 208, 210, 212, 220
Goodale, M. 100
Goodall, J. 212
Goodglass, H. 109
Gopnik, A. 35, 69
gorillas 73–74, 82–83, 138, 192–194, 202, 210,
213 See also King (gorilla)
gossip 267–268, 289, 291
gradable adjectives 148
Graf, P. 69
Grafen, A. 169, 188, 234, 277, 286–287, 324
grammatical complexity 176, 184
gray-cheeked mangabeys 181
Green Beard Eﬀect 262
Greene, A. 46
Greenﬁeld, P. 241
grey seals 218
Grice, P. 184, 252–253, 270, 290
Griﬃn, D. 11
Griﬃths, D. 7, 71
Grill-Spector, K. 101–102
Grim, P. 261
grooming xii, 187, 188, 214, 215, 272, 289
Grossman, M. 62
Index 379
ground squirrels 257
group membership 181, 198, 262, 271, 298,
301–302, 325–327, 329
group selection 293, 295–300, 303–304, 330
group size 187–189, 191, 197
Gurven, M. 304
Gust, D. 180
Güth 325
Hall, J. 279
Halliday, M. 3–5
Hamao 283
Hamilton, W. D. 256–258, 260–261, 264, 287
Hamilton, W. J. 179
Hamilton’s Rule 256–257, 260
Hampton, R. 11
Handicap Principle 278, 286–290, 303
haplodiploidy 258
happiness 111
Hare, B. 207, 215, 218, 220, 311–312,
315–316, 333
Harms, W. 11, 60–61, 63
Harris, M. 221
Harvey, P. 193
Hauser, M. 6, 18, 23, 30, 38, 42–44, 91,
93–94, 179–180, 186, 198, 232–234, 245,
268, 272, 290, 323
He, S. 102
Healy, S. 7
Heasley, B. 229
Heim, I. 139
Hendry, J. 26
Henrich, J. 302, 323–325
Heraclitus 157
Herman, L. 218
Herrnstein, R. 18, 23
Hess, J. 213
hetero-zygote advantage 295
Hewes, G. 186
Heyes, C. 307, 308, 309
hierarchy 46, 49
hierarchy (semantic) 23
Higginbotham, J. 144–145, 149
Hillis, A. 44
hippocampus 7, 48, 70, 79, 82
Hobson, P. 319
Hockett, C. 41
Hodges, J. 56
Hoﬀman, M. 75
Hogue, M. 47
Hölldobler, B. 258
Homo erectus 194
Homo habilis 237
Honey, R. 42
honeybees 7, 75
Hood, B. 39
hopeful monsters 245, 246, 251
Hopi Pueblo Indians 263
Hopkins, D. 186, 210, 213, 220–221
hormones 326
Horner, M. 66
Horner, V. 202–203
horses 218
Hoy, R. 279
Hubbard, M. 330
Hubel, D. 52
Huber, E. 186
Humboldt, W. 158
Hume, D. 83, 103
Hummel, J. 58
humour 281
Humphreys, G. 104, 108–110, 126, 152
Humpty Dumpty 85
hunter-gatherers 191, 262
hunting (by animals) 316–317
Huntingford, F. 272
Hurford, J. 58, 97, 99, 100, 133–134, 156, 177,
229, 251, 301, 330
Hurley, S. 45, 73
Hurley, K. 218
Hurtig, R. 107
hyenas 317
iconicity 126–127, 152, 183–184
idealization in science 255
ideational meaning 3–5
identity xiii, 27–28, 129–130, 139
illocutions 172–176, 184, 186, 200
illusions 36–37
imagination, imagery 57–58, 62, 106, 117
imitation 198–199, 201–204, 307, 320, 322,
328
imperative begging 211
imperative content 50, 63, 64
imperative pointing 213
imperative sentence type 63
implicature 252
imprinting 42, 65
Inclusive Fitness 255–256, 261
Independent Description Hypothesis 174
indexes (or indices), for tracking objects 92,
107–108, 114, 117, 139–140, 155, 235
380 Index
indexicality 117, 140, 208, 223, 224, 235
See also deixis
indexical connection 25
individual/associative learning 198
individuals 133, 134
individual constants 41, 98, 121, 128–130,
135–136, 138–140, 143
individual selection 294, 297, 300, 304
individual variables 92, 98–99, 103, 114, 117,
121, 125, 128, 155–156, 224
individual variation 36, 238, 331
induction 18, 22
Inequity Aversion 323
infanticide 258
inference (pragmatic) 21 See also implicature
inference of intention 252
inferential promiscuity 45, 73
information 169
information (as currency) 290–291
information transmission 247, 276–277, 291,
333
inhibition 62–63
innate concepts 7
innate signals 226, 230, 234–235, 237
Inoue-Nakamura, N. 213
insects See ants, bees, bumblebees, crickets,
drosophila, ﬂies, honeybees, red ants, wasps
intended eﬀect on a hearer 172
intentionality 5, 320
Intentionality (= aboutness) 5–8, 15, 173,
183, 320
interdisciplinary research 28, 103, 123, 124,
125, 135, 136, 139, 153, 155, 163, 212, 223,
234, 287
interjections 175
interpersonal meaning 3–4, 184
interrogative sentence type 63
intragroup cohesion 181–182
introspection 309
irony 319
Irwin, D. 40
Itakura, S. 218
Iterated Prisoner’s Dilemma 265–266
Itti, L. 95
Jackendoﬀ, R. 13, 54, 59, 239
Janata, P. 113
Jansen, V. 262
Japanese 175
jellyﬁsh 17
Jespersen, O. 279, 281–282, 284
Johanowicz, D. 190
Johanson, D. 193
Johansson, G. 42
John, O. 313
joint attention 224, 321
Jokisch, D. 42, 119
Jolly, A. 194
Jones, B. 286
Julesz, B. 101
Kahneman, D. 93, 139–140
Kaminski, J. 206, 218
Kamp, H. 125, 139, 160
Kant, I. 83, 103, 131
Kanwisher, N. 101–102
Kanzi (bonobo) 21, 50, 204, 217, 235, 241,
321
Kaplan, E. 109
Kaplan, G. 206
Karakashian, S. 33, 226, 231
Kastak, C. 27, 28
Katz, C. 27
Kaufman, E. 91
Kawecki, T. 259
Keddy-Hector, A. 31–32, 116
Keller, L. 262
Keller, Helen 69
Kellogg, W. 213
Kemmerer, D. 54–55, 62
Kim, J. 161
King, J. 313
King (gorilla) 74–75
kin-recognition 261–262
Kinsbourne, M. 108
Kin Selection 232, 254–261, 263–264, 268,
272, 276, 287, 289, 299, 303–304, 324, 326,
333
kinship 49, 190–191
kinship (in anthropology) 262–263
Kirby, S. 237, 251, 330
Kirkpatrick, K. 110–111
Klein, R. 245
Klein, S. 67
Knauft, B. 191
Knight, C. 200–202, 204, 246, 250, 262, 328,
329
Kobayashi, H. 206
Koch, C. 93
Kohshima, S. 206
Konishi, M. 198
Korsakoﬀ, S. 68
Index 381
Kosfeld, M. 327
Kosslyn, S. 57, 58, 58
Kotchoubey, B. 282
Krebs, J. 135, 177, 288
Kripke, S. 130, 138
Kuczaj, S. 26
Kudo, H. 187
Kuhl, P. 276
Kuna 221, 225
Kyriacou, C. 279
Lachmann, M. 288–289, 292
Laeng, B. 107–108, 113
Lakoﬀ, G. 62, 118, 120, 332
Laland, K. 248–249, 250
Langer, S. 95
language and logic 124, 147
language and episodic memory 69, 78
language and pointing 220–221
language and thought 131, 156
language training 26, 28, 213–214, 221, 235,
314, 332
Lanyon, S. 282
larynx-lowering xii
latent abilities 35–36
laughter 182
learning 7, 65, 181–185, 197–200, 202–204,
211, 225, 230–231, 234–237, 239, 249–251,
259–260, 300–301, 317, 329
Leavens, D. 186, 207, 210, 212–216, 220–221,
223
LeBoeuf, B. 180
Leibniz, G. 83
Leimar, O. 179, 268
Lemon, R. 282
Lempers, J. 210
lemurs 206
Levin, D. 112
Levinson, S. 274
Levy, W. 9, 51
Lewis, D. 330
Lewontin, R. 248
lexical syntax 281
Liebal, K. 210
Lieberman, P. xi
Lightfoot, D. 285
Lim, M. 192, 245
Lin, N. 258
linguistic semantics 123, 125, 142, 155, 163
Link, G. 159–160
Linnankoski, I. 282
linkage xiii
lions 258–259, 316–317
lip pointing 221–222
local attention 37, 103–113, 121, 126–127,
151–153, 157, 161, 331
location of an object 103
Lock, A. 199
Locke, J. 196
Lofting, H. 60
logic 90, 94–95, 98–99, 102–103, 105, 114,
120–121, 124–125, 128–130, 135–136, 141,
151, 154, 163
logical reasoning 39, 46, 49
logic (ﬁrst order) 28
logic (second order) 28–29
Lohmann, H. 312
Lombardo, M. 272
Lorenz, K. 22, 66
Louie, K. 75–76
Luria, A. 107–108, 152
Lyons, J. 223, 228
MacDonald, S. 72–73
Machiavellian Intelligence 203–204
Machizawa, M. 93
MacNeilage, P. 186
macaques 26–27, 47, 194, 206
macromutation 245–246
Maestripieri, D. 186, 190–191
magic bullet 245, 251, 318, 328
Magnan, A. 243
Maienborn, C. 161
major transitions in evolution 247
Mandarin Chinese 175
Mandler, J. 44
manipulation 177, 288
manipulation of attention 207–209, 211, 216,
235
Marcel, A. 100
Margulis, L. 194
Markowitsch, H. 6
Marler, P. 23, 227, 281
Marois, R. 93
Marras, A. 16
Martin, A. 62
material cooperation 270–271, 305, 321
mate choice 278–279, 283–284
Matisse, H. 23
Matsuzawa, T. 213
Maynard Smith, J. 247
McAndrew, F. 291, 294
382 Index
McComb, K. 188, 259
McCrae, R. 313
McGonigle, B. 46
McGrew, W. 257
McHenry, H. 193
McKinley, J. 218
McMasters, J. 243
McMullen, P. 113
Meacham, J. 77
Mecklinger, A. 62
Melis, A. 219, 314, 316
Meltzoﬀ, A. 201, 203
Mendel, G. 294
mental models 51
mental states 6, 8, 12, 14, 18, 19, 33, 96, 225,
309–311, 320
mental time travel 67–68, 78, 79
Menzel, C. 40, 72, 74, 79, 82, 208–209, 214
metacognition 29–35, 116
metaphor 281, 319
metaphysics xiii, 158–159
metarepresentation 35
Michener, C. 258
microcephaly 239
midwives 197
migration 76
Miklosi, A. 218
Milenkovic, M. 291
Miles, H. 213
Milinski, M. 272
Mill, J. 138
Miller, B 103
Miller, G. 276–277, 280, 282, 284, 292–293
Miller, G.A. 92
Millikan, R. 60–61, 63, 71–72, 130
Milner 100
Minimalism 285
Minsky, M. 59
‘mimetic culture’ 80
mind-reading 35, 177, 253, 288, 307, 315, 319
minimal subscene 95
mirror neurons 60–62
Missing, C. 286
Mitani, J. 214, 259, 281
Mitchell, R. 206, 213
Mithen, S. 282
Molière, J-B. 15
mode of presentation 118
monkeys 24, 25, 27, 30–31, 39, 94, 138, 203,
207, 210–213, 323 See also baboons,
Barbary macaques, capuchin monkeys,
cotton-top tamarin monkeys, de Brazza’s
monkeys, Diana monkeys, gibbons,
gray-cheeked mangabeys, lemurs, mouse
lemurs, pigtail macaques, prosimians,
rhesus macaques, siamangs, sooty
mangabeys, squirrel monkeys, stumptail
macaques, talapoin monkeys, vervet
monkeys
Monet, C. 23
monogamy 180, 192–193, 195, 197, 284
Montague, R. 3
Moore, J. 203, 254, 272, 274, 304
morality 298–300, 303, 305
Moriceau, S. 328
Morissette, P. 221
Moss, S. 53
mother-infant relations 196, 200–201, 211,
256
motivation 238
motivation to communicate 50
motor-sensory co-involvement in
concepts 60–64
motor neurons 51
Mountjoy, D. 282
mouse lemurs 181
Mulcahy, N. 77–78
multi-level selection 294–295
multisensory information 52
Mumford, S. 15
Munakata, Y. 38
Munn, C. 232
music 281–282
mutation (genetic) 245–246
mutualism 265, 273–274, 304–305, 317
‘mythic culture’ 80
Myowa-Yamakoshi, M. 201
Nakayama, K. 106, 157
naked mole rats 258
naming of individuals 130, 134, 140
naming insight 320
naming of concepts 53, 55, 57, 62, 134
natural kinds 86
natural selection 7, 36, 43, 86, 177–179,
242–243, 248, 257, 260, 293, 295–296,
298–299, 313
navigation 76–77
Navon, D. 104
Neanderthals 244
negation 25, 164
neglect (left spatial) 106
Neiworth, J. 39
neocortex size 187, 204
Index 383
Nettle, D. 298, 301
neural activity 51–52, 97, 99, 117–119, 128,
207, 225 See also functional cluster
neural potentials 16
Neurath, O. 84
neuroscience 15–16, 102–103
niche-construction 248–251, 303
niche (evolutionary) 247–248
Nishida, T. 203, 212
Noë, A. 11, 62
non-propositional meaning 172
notation 13–15, 123–126, 141, 143–144
notational conventions 228–229
noun-classiﬁcation 44
nouns 41
noun phrases 156
Nowak, M. 266
number 238
numerical ability 91
numerosity 90–91
nursing poke 199, 201
Nyberg, L. 70
object-choice task 217–218, 220, 315
objects 36–38, 41, 98, 106–109, 113, 117,
126–127, 129, 131, 147, 150, 156–163, 235
object ﬁles 93
object permanence 36, 38–40, 50, 117, 129,
158
object recognition 131–132, 134
object tracking 40, 92–93, 95, 100, 103, 107,
114, 119, 121, 139–140, 155
Object 143 See also Agent, participant roles,
Patient, role markers, Theta roles, thematic
roles
O’Connell, S. 180
ocular apraxia 107
Oden 27
Odling-Smee, F. 248
oestrus 194
oﬄine storage 155
oﬄine thinking 70
Oliphant, M. 268–270, 330
Olson, E. 75, 112, 222
Omedes, A. 189
one-place predicates 103–105, 112, 121, 125,
140, 144, 147, 148, 152–153
online thinking 70
ontogenetic ritualization 198–202, 250
ontogeny 196
ontology 36, 125, 144–145, 157–163
oppositeness 24–26, 120
orangutans 77, 192, 206, 210, 213
ordered pairs 141–142
ordering of arguments 140–141, 143
ordinary language intuitions 83, 159
orienting reﬂex 101, 207
O’Riordan, C. 266
out of Africa ix
oxytocin 327–329
Packer, C. 258, 267, 317
Pagel 179
Palameta, B. 266, 273
pale-winged trumpeters 226
Palmer, C. 259
Panzee (chimpanzee) 40, 72–74, 79, 82, 214
paralanguage 185
parallel search 105, 106, 112, 113, 126
parietal cortex 93, 100, 114, 117
Parnell, R. 193
parrots 28–29, 39–40, 45
parsimony 123, 125, 133, 140, 143–144, 147,
157, 308–309
Parsons, T. 144, 160
part-whole 36, 110, 150
participant roles 144–149, 151 See also
Agent, Object, Patient, role markers, Theta
roles, thematic roles
past 50, 72, 76, 78
Pate, J. 25
Patient 142–143, 145–149 See also Agent,
Object, participant roles, role markers,
Theta roles, thematic roles
Patterson, F. 56
Patterson, K. 213
Paul, R. 279
peace-keeping 194
Peirce, C. 225
Pelamatti, G. 136
Pendlebury, M. 139
Penton-Voak, I. 286
Pepper, J. 257
Pepperberg, I. 28, 39
perception 7, 20, 36, 40, 49, 51, 55–59, 96,
104–106, 154–155, 157–158, 331
perceptual representation 37
perceptual symbols 55–56, 59, 120, 128–129
performance 59, 90
Perrett, D. 286
personality traits 313–315
perspective-taking 206–207
phenomenology 51
phenotype 246
384 Index
photosynthesis 247
Picasso, P. 23
Pickering, M. 182
picture theory 127
Pietroski, P. 146–147, 155
pigeons 23–24, 29–31, 47, 74, 110–111
piglets 31–32, 35, 116
pigtail macaques 181, 190–191
Pika, S. 186, 202, 213–214
Pinker, S. 133, 177, 246
pinyon jays 47
planning 76, 235, 240, 317, 332
Platonism 12
play 150, 195–196, 208
Plooij, F. 212
plurality 127
pointing 186, 192, 206, 208–209, 211–212,
214–218, 220–222, 224–225, 229, 234–236,
240–241, 332
politeness 274
polygamy 192–193
polygyny 194
polymorphism 277, 296, 302
ponies 218
Pöppel, E. 96
Posel, D. 260
Posner, M. 106
post-natal dependence 196–197, 219, 322, 333
Poulshock, J. 263, 301
Povinelli, D. 205, 210, 212, 215, 310
Power, C. 289
pragmatics 50, 63–64, 90, 166, 170, 184, 225,
252
pragmatics (distinguished from semantics) 3,
4
pre-adaptations 247
pre-attentional processes 101, 103, 114
pre-motor cortex 62
predicate-argument structure 89–91, 95–96,
98–100, 102, 114, 121, 124, 128, 142, 163,
224, 331–332
predicates xiii, 11, 28, 97–99, 103, 121, 124,
128, 130, 132, 135–136, 139–140, 143,
145–147, 154, 155, 157, 175, 228, 235, 331
See also asymmetric predicates, one-place
predicates, predicate-argument structure,
predicate logic, predicating, subject and
predicate, two-place predicates, zero-place
predicates
predicate logic 89
predicating 176
prediction 177
Premack, D. 26, 28, 308
prepositions 153
Price, J. 282
primates 99, 187–189 See also apes, monkeys
primate communication 183
priming 93, 110, 182
Prinz, J. 62
Prisoner’s Dilemma 222, 264–265, 269,
272–275
procedural memory 59, 60–61, 67, 80
production (versus perception) 57
Prolog 95
Promethean hypothesis 216
properties 28–29, 129, 132, 157, 224
proper names 41, 98, 128, 130, 136–140
propositional attitudes 32–33, 50, 95
propositional content 172–176
propositional thought 32
propositions 11, 88–90, 95–96, 98, 113–116,
120–122, 163–164, 235, 331
proprioception 56, 154
prosimians 25
prosodic structure 281
prospective memory 77–78
proto-concepts 12, 16–18
proto-thought 88
Proverbio, A. 137
Provine, R. 309, 310–311
psychologizing 5, 118, 124, 141, 234
psychology 124–125
puberty 284
public nature of concepts 13
punishment 233, 268, 271, 289–290, 298, 302,
322–323, 329
Pusey, A. 258, 267, 317
pushmi-pullyu representations 60–62
Pylyshyn, Z. 92–93, 101–102, 140
questions 175–176
Quine, W. 83–84, 103, 138, 141–142, 333
Radcliﬀe-Brown, A. 263
Ramachandran, V. 100, 330
rapid eye movement sleep 79
Rapoport, A. 266
rats 47–48, 7–78, 83, 328
Real, L. 283
Reboreda, J. 7
reciprocal actions 145, 151
reciprocal signalling 168, 195–198, 200, 202
Reciprocal Altruism 222, 254–255, 264,
267–269, 271–272, 274–276, 287, 289,
Index 385
291–292, 298, 302–305, 324, 333 See also
Tit-for-tat
recognition of individuals 182, 198
reconciliation 194
recursion xii, 285
red-shouldered blackbirds 284
red-winged blackbirds 284
red ants 262
reed warblers 283
reference xiii, 4, 90, 98, 117–118, 122,
156–157, 167, 176, 205, 209, 223–224,
226–229, 234–235, 240, 332
referring 176, 186
reﬂexive sentences 34
reﬂex actions 17–18, 22, 29, 61,
177–178
re-identifying particulars 90, 129, 131
Reimer, M. 139
relatedness (genetic) 256–260, 262
relations (abstract) 18–19, 120, 332
relations between objects 104
relative clauses 154
relativizing function implicit in box
notation 148
relevance 290, 292
Relevance Theory 252–253, 270, 321
Renoir, J. 23
replicator 294
representation xiii
representations (mental) 5, 13, 25, 29, 49,
52–57, 63, 90, 95, 115, 123–125, 130, 136,
140, 147, 154, 162–163, 173, 176–177, 235,
331–332
requesting 235
requests 217, 220
Rescher, N. 83
retina 100
retrospective memory 77–78
reversal learning 24–25, 120
Reyle, U. 125, 139
rhesus macaques 38, 48, 93, 94, 181, 190–191,
196, 212–213, 233–234, 268, 323
rhetorical information 153
Ricciardelli, P. 206
Richerson, P. 267, 289–290
right hemisphere 281–282
rigid designator 130
Ritchie, G. 237
ritualization 178, 183, 185
Rizzo, M. 107
Rizzolatti, G. 60
Rock (chimpanzee) 209
rodents 24 See also naked mole rats, rats,
voles
Rogers, L. 206
role-taking 307
role markers 142–143 See also Agent, Object,
participant roles, Patient, Theta roles,
thematic roles
Ross, E. 262, 276, 282
Rossi, L. 239
Roth, A. 325
Rouquier, S. 24
Rousseau, J-J. 264, 281
Rumbaugh, D. 25
Russell, B. 3, 138
Russell, J. 209
Ryle, G. 59, 160
Sabater-Pi, J. 213, 215
saccades 100–101
Sagan, D. 194, 239
saltation 245
Sambrook, T. 218
sameness 26–29, 120, 152–153
Sanders, M. 100
Santos, L. 23, 40, 156
Sarris, V. 119, 126, 150–151
Sassaman, E. 239
Savage-Rumbaugh, S. 23, 50, 213–214, 217,
241, 314
Sawaguchi, T. 187
scala naturae 20, 211
scenes 104–105, 109, 111–113, 123, 126–127,
131, 147–148, 152–153, 157, 161–163, 235
Scerif, J. 206
Schacter, D. 67, 68
Schank, R. 13
Schein, B. 148, 160
schematization of action 199
Schlottmann, A. 43
Schmidt, H. 105
Schumer, R. 101
Schuster, R. 317
Schustermann, R. 27–28
Schwartz, B. 72, 74–75, 82
sclera 206
scrub jays 7, 47, 71, 82–83
Searle, J. 7, 64, 184, 211, 223
Sears, C. 93
sea lions 27, 192
sea sponges 17
second-order judgement 35, 46
Seddon 226
386 Index
Segal, G. 139
Segerdahl, P. 21, 50
self-awareness 11, 32–35, 68–69
self-recognition (in mirrors) 138, 307
self-regulation 34
Sells, C. 239
semantically selective impairment 44,
136–137
semantics (deﬁnition of) 3–4, 49, 81
semantic ascent 333
semantic content 58, 155, 236, 240–241, 280
semantic memory 49–50, 56, 59–61, 63,
65–66, 68, 70, 80–81, 85–87, 100, 114, 137
semantic primitives 54
semantic universals 44
Semenza, C. 136–137
Semple, S. 179, 188, 259
sense 117–118
sentences 94, 156
sentence meaning 228
serial order 48, 82
serial search 106, 113
sexual dimorphism 192–194, 283, 284, 286
sexual intercourse 180, 194
sexual selection 251, 277–280, 282–283,
285–288, 292, 303–305, 333
Seyfarth, R. 33, 48, 81, 135, 215, 226,
230–232
Shannon, C. 169
shared intentionality 315–321, 333
sharing (esp food-sharing) 203, 209, 214, 233,
257, 272, 304
Shastri, L. 70
Sherman, P. 257
Sherman (chimpanzee) 214, 222
Sherry, D. 67
Sherzer, J. 221
Shettleworth, S. 11, 29, 30, 42, 50, 77
Shields, J. 282
Shillcock, R. 202
short-term memory 92–93
siamangs 195
Siberian foxes 219
sickle-cell anaemia 295
Sidman, M. 27
Sigmund, K. 266
Silk, J. 314
Silverman, G. 106, 157
Simmons, L. 279
Simons, D. 111–112
simultanagnosia (including dorsal and ventral
simultanagnosias) 107–109, 112–113, 152
single-unit signals 236, 278
Singer, J. 77
Sinnott, J. 276
situation-speciﬁc meanings 239–240
situations (wrt events and states) 94, 160
situation of utterance 89–90
Skoyles, J. 239
Skyrms, B. 261
sleep 44, 79
Small, C. 193
Smith, J. 30–31, 33, 79
Smith, K. 330
Snowdon, C. 188
Soames, S. 139
Sober, E. 261, 294, 296–298
social relationships 243
social species 47–48, 132, 247
social standardization 175
social status 290–291, 293
social structure 154, 190–192, 194, 197,
272–275, 333
Social tool use hypothesis 216
Sole, L. 30, 31
solipsism 2, 9, 174–175
sooty mangabeys 206
Soproni, K. 218
spatial organization (of a simulated
population) 261
spatial relations 153
speaker meaning 228
speciation 250
‘species-selection’ 178
speech acts 170–172, 176, 211, 223
speed of evolution 248–251
Spelke, E. 91
Sperber, D. 252, 321
squirrel monkeys 39, 46–47
Stainton, R. 156
Stamps, J. 60
Stander, P. 316–317
Stanley, J. 59
starlings 282
statements 175–176
static features 157–159
Steels, L. 330
Stephens, D. 272–274, 317
Stevenson, J. 134
sticklebacks 117
Stidd, S. 139
stimulus-freedom 97
Stone Age 184
Storm, R. 92
Index 387
Strawson, P. 37
Stromswold, K. 238
Strong Reciprocity 275, 302–304, 322, 324,
329
stumptail macaques 190–191
stylization 178
St John ix
subitizing 91–93, 112, 121, 126
Subjacency 285
subject xiii
subject and predicate 83, 162,
332
Suddendorf, T. 67, 78, 82
Suhonen, J. 7
Sullivan, K. 307
Sullivan, R. 328
Surian, L. 43
Sutton, J. 11, 30
swallows 22
Symons, L. 206
Szathmáry, E. 247
syllable structure xii
symbolic (versus connectionist)
representations 59
symbolic connection 25
symbolic knowledge 81
symbolic thinking 238
symmetric relations 148, 151
synaesthesia 330
synonymy 234
syntactic ability 82
syntax 8
synthetic sentences 83–86
taboo words 175
Tager-Flusberg, H. 307
talapoin monkeys 188
talkativeness 276–277, 293
talking to oneself 168, 174–175
Talmy, L. 5
tamarins 38–39, 42–43
Tammero, L. 18
Tanner, J. 193, 213
Tavares, M. 26
teasing 310–311
temporal cortex 100
terns 134–135
Terrace, H. 48
terrestrial animals 247
territorial behaviour 195
territorial calls 180, 182, 186
Thaler, R. 325
thematic roles 144, 146, 148 See also Agent,
Object, participant roles, Patient, role
markers, Theta roles
‘theoretic culture’ 80
Theory of Mind xii, 44, 177, 215–217, 233,
307–313, 319, 333
Theta roles 144, 146 See also Agent, Object,
participant roles, Patient, role markers,
thematic roles
Thierry, B. 190
Thompson, R. 26–27
Thorndike, E. 199
Thorpe, W. 197
thought without language 6
Tietz, R. 325
Tinbergen, N. 22, 178
tits 7
Tit-for-tat 254, 264, 266–267, 269, 271–272,
274–275, 292 See also Reciprocal Altruism
Todd, J. 93
Tolman, E. 31
Tomasello, M. 39, 82, 198,-202, 206–207,
213–215, 217–218, 312, 315–316, 318–321,
333
Tomaz, C. 26
Tomonaga, M. 111
tools 62
topicalization 154
touch 106
transitive inference 45–48
tree frogs 279
Treichler, F. 47
Treisman, A. 93, 101, 104–106,
139–140
Trevathan, W. 197
triadic communication 205, 208–210
Trick, L. 101
Trivers, R. 222, 264
Troje, N. 42, 119
trust 204, 262, 288, 325–329, 333
truth 6, 114–117, 122, 156–157, 176
truth conditions 154
Trut, L. 219
Tschudin, A. 218
Tulving, E. 6, 66, 70–71, 76, 79–81,
85
turn-taking 180, 183
twins 129, 130
two-element communication 241
two-place predicates 148, 152–153
Tyler H. 108
Tyler L. 51, 56
388 Index
Uexküll, J. 20
Ujhelyi, M. 195, 281
Ultimatum Game 324, 325
Umwelt 20
uncertainty-monitoring 30–33, 72
uniqueness 41, 128–129, 131–135, 138
unit of selection 232, 293–294
Universal Grammar 90, 300
universe of discourse 89, 98, 125
utterances 228
Uvnas-Moberg, K. 328
vagueness 154
Vallar, G. 106
Vallortigara, G. 42
VanRullen, R. 93
van Baalen, M. 262
van Sant, P. 24
variables 126
Vauclair, J. 82
Veá, J. 213, 215
Vehrencamp, S. 192
ventral pathway 99–101, 103, 114, 121
Venus ﬂytrap 17
verbs 45
vervet monkeys 17, 32, 97, 226, 229–232, 237
Victor, M. 68
virtus dormitiva 15
vision 24, 52, 92–96, 99–100, 106, 113, 125,
127, 139–140
vocabulary learning 8, 236, 242, 329–330
vocal ability 4
Vogel, E. 93
voles 192, 245
volition 169
voluntary behaviour 231–233, 235
von Fersen, L. 47
von Frisch, K. 7
Vonk, J. 215, 310
Vygotsky, L. 220
Waiter, G. 225
Wakeﬁeld, J. 237
Walker, S. 134
Wang, P. 109
Warrington, E. 108
Waser, P. 181
Washburn, D. 26, 30
wasps 258
Wasserman, E. 29
Watam 222
Watanabe, S. 23
Watson, J. 39
Weaver, W. 169
Weiskrantz 100
Wells, G. 75, 112
‘whichness’ 129
White, T. 193
Whitehead, A. 158–159
Whiten, A. 191, 199, 202–204, 207–208, 215
Whittingham, L. 284
Wiesel, T. 52
Wilkins, W. 221–222, 237
Williams, G. 202, 296–297
Williams, J. 225
Williamson, T. 59
Williamson, T. L. 276
Williams Syndrome 109–110
Wilson, D. 252, 270, 321
Wilson, D. S. 294, 296–298
Wilson, E. 258
Wilson, M. 258
Wilson, M. A. 75–76
Wittgenstein, L. 3, 5–6, 16, 21, 89, 127,
169
Wittmann, M. 96
Wixted, J. 29
Wolpoﬀ, M. 245
wolves 218, 317
Wood, D. 199
Woodruﬀ, G. 308
Wrangham, R. 272
Wu, X. 51
Wynne, C. 23, 47
Wynne-Edwards, V. 296
Yakovlev, P. 68
Yeshurun, Y. 106
Yimas 222
Young, M. 29
Zahavi, A. 278, 286, 287, 290
Zak, P. 328
Zartler, A. 239
Zatorre, R. 57–58
Zentall, T. 74
zero-place predicates 89, 98
Zettin, M. 136
zeugma 145
Zhang, S. 75
zooming in 127
Zuberbühler, K. 215, 226–229
Studies in the Evolution of Language
General Editors
Kathleen R. Gibson, University of Texas at Houston
James R. Hurford, University of Edinburgh
Published
1
The Origins of Vowel Systems
Bart de Boer
2
The Transition to Language
Edited by Alison Wray
3
Language Evolution
Edited by Morten H. Christiansen and Simon Kirby
4
Language Origins
Evolutionary Perspectives
Edited by Maggie Tallerman
5
The Talking Ape
How Language Evolved
Robbins Burling
6
Self-Organization in the Evolution of Speech
Pierre-Yves Oudeyer
translated by James R. Hurford
7
Why we Talk
The Evolutionary Origins of Human Communication
Jean-Louis Dessalles
translated by James Grieve
8
The Origins of Meaning
Language in the Light of Evolution 1
James R. Hurford
9
The Genesis of Grammar
Bernd Heine and Tania Kuteva
In Preparation
The Evolution of Linguistic Form
Language in the Light of Evolution 2
James R. Hurford
The Invisible Miracle
The Evolutionary Origins of Speech
Peter MacNeilage
Published in Association with the Series
Language Diversity
Daniel Nettle
Function, Selection, and Innateness
The Emergence of Language Universals
Simon Kirby
The Origins of Complex Language
An Inquiry into the Evolutionary Beginnings of Sentences, Syllables, and Truth
Andrew Carstairs McCarthy
