3
Biolinguistics yesterday,
today, and tomorrow
Massimo Piattelli-Palmarini
3.1 Introduction
Much too generously, Noam Chomsky (Chomsky 2007c, 2009) credits me
for having coined the term biolinguistics, and for having organized, in May
1974, at Endicott House in Massachusetts (Piattelli-Palmarini 1974), the
first meeting in this (then) new field. He is too generous on two counts,
because I did not think I was coining a new term, but rather that I was just
spelling out in an obvious way what existed already, at MIT, and because
Noam and Salva Luria organized that meeting at least as much as I did
(Chomsky 2007c). Chomsky and Luria (a Nobel laureate and one of the
main architects of modern molecular genetics) had organized a weekly
seminar at MIT where biologists and linguists engaged in a constructive
exchange of ideas. What could that have been, if not bio-linguistics?
Later that month, during a grand tour of private foundations in the US,
trying to raise funds for the Royaumont Center in Paris, of which I was the
director and Jacques Monod (French Nobel laureate and a main participant
in the Endicott House meeting) the president, I learned that one of those
foundations only gave grants to institutions in the US, but not to entities
outside the US. I mentioned the biolinguistics venture started at MIT and
the officer in charge instantly manifested great interest in it and the
concrete possibility of giving a grant. I contacted Luria and suggested
that a grant application be sent. It was sent and it was accepted, and it
fueled research, fellowships, and meetings in biolinguistics at MIT for
several years to come.1
One episode that happened the following year is, I think, sympto-
matic of the early development of the field. While on a short visit of
two weeks to the Department of Linguistics and Philosophy of MIT, an
undergraduate student in biology came to see me and said he was
greatly interested in working on biolinguistics. I suggested that he con-
tact Luria, and he did. He told me a few days later, to my astonishment,
that Luria had discouraged him from entering the field. I then asked
Luria why he had been so dismissive, and he told me candidly that no
results were to be expected for many years to come, the problems were
too complex, the possibility of real experiments too remote, and a
young researcher was destined to be disillusioned. Luria added (in
Italian, I am translating): “When you start a career as a scientist, you
want to tackle a problem that has a good chance to be solved in three or
four years, not in decades. It’s ok for old schnooks like myself to have a
side interest in big problems, but a young researcher must not be
encouraged to tread into those waters.” Being then young myself, and
thoroughly enthusiastic about the new field, I was disappointed, but
Luria did not budge from his pessimistic forecast. Nonetheless, soon
after, he and Chomsky sent me a glowing letter of reference for Mary
Louise Kean, an MIT post-doc who had done seminal work on the pho-
nological aspect of aphasia, and who would be spending a semester in
Paris, thanks to the grant I mentioned above. So, after all, young
researchers could get results in a short time. I was delighted.
There was, however, wisdom in what Luria told me. In hindsight, almost
40 years later, one must confess that the development of biolinguistics has
indeed been slow, though fascinating, and that it’s still an inchoate field of
inquiry. Inevitably, as time went by, it has been conditioned by several
major changes in biology, in linguistics, and in the difficulty in bridging
the gap between them.
3.2 Biolinguistics: The early years (Lenneberg’s dream)
The pioneering monograph by Eric Lenneberg on the biological founda-
tions of language (Lenneberg 1967) reviewed what was then known, and
sketched a “dream” (Wexler 2003) of the integration between biology and
linguistics. In the mid 1970s, biology was starting an exploration of the
regulatory mechanisms that determine the activation and inactivation of
genes. The pioneering work of Jacques Monod and François Jacob in the
1960s had startled the field by revealing that genes could be switched on or
off by other genes, that one string of DNA acted as a comptroller of the
expression of another string of DNA. For a long time, historically, genes
had been conceptualized as catalysts. Indeed, when genes code for
enzymes, their products, though not the genes themselves, are literally
catalysts. That idea had long passed its time, in the early 1960s, but the
notion that there existed genes acting as switches was indeed revolution-
ary (the 1965 Nobel Lectures of Jacob and Monod retrace this experimental
as well as conceptual development). Moreover, Jacob had explicitly
stressed the universality of the basic molecular components of all living
organisms, from the fruitfly to the elephant, and the crucial role in evolu-
tion of the different ways to recombine and shuffle the fundamental
Biolinguistics yesterday, today, and tomorrow 13
bricks. His masterful metaphor was evolution as tinkering (bricolage).
(Jacob 1977).
This suggested to Chomsky the very idea of parametric change as a
model for linguistic variation (Chomsky 2009), which was to find its way
first in his Kant lecture at Stanford in 1978 and then in Rules and
Representations (1980). The technical developments of linguistic theory
in those years pointed to increasingly abstract principles, covering appa-
rently heterogeneous phenomena in a variety of languages and dialects.
The requirement of explanatory adequacy became a sine qua non, ground-
ing all linguistic hypotheses onto what is naturally accessible to the
child, that is, at least implicitly, on the biology of our species. A further
interesting parallel between biology and linguistics in those years is to
be found in what can count as the syntactic equivalent of switches,
independently developed. New analyses of phenomena like syllabifica-
tion, the assignment of tonic accent, and prosody (Bromberger and Halle
1994; Chomsky and Halle 1968) and affix hopping (for a later review and
historical reconstruction see Lasnik 2007), steered syntactic theory away
from the traditional notion of applying rules to that of highly con-
strained computations, activated (in a sense, therefore, switched on) by
the very nature of the input. The notion of syntactic movement was
progressively transformed, from an optional transformation, to a man-
datory computation, driven by the need to locally assign thematic roles
and Case.
As a result of this progress, the very idea that communication might
have been the shaping factor in language evolution faded more and more.
Growing emphasis was given to the poverty of the stimulus, internal
computational constraints, modularity and innateness (for a recent update
and counters to criticism see Berwick et al. in press). Other ways to account
for language evolution seemed inevitable, but as yet poorly defined.
The study of language pathologies, notably aphasia, became increas-
ingly relevant and researchers with a solid background in linguistic theory
started having a closer look. Agrammatic aphasia became a field of inquiry
and it was possible to collect evidence from pathology bearing on rather
specific syntactic hypotheses. (For a later review, see Grodzinsky 1985.)
The study of sign languages from the perspective of universal grammar
soon came of age (Klima and Bellugi 1979), showing that the fundamental
principles of language design were largely independent of the modality of
externalization.
Early studies in language acquisition contributed to divorce the sponta-
neous growth of language in the child from any kind of inductive trial-
and-error mechanism. Remarkable discontinuities in the acquisition of
syntactic processes and the identification of critical periods, uniform
across children and across languages, stressed the crucial role of brain
maturation, making the traditional notion of learning inapplicable. An
early anthology of such studies (Wanner and Gleitman 1982) made all this
14 M A S S I M O P I A T T E L L I - P A L M A R I N I
transparent. As to the genetics of language, detailed studies of the differ-
ences between monozygotic and fraternal twins for different components
of language (notably lexicon versus syntax) did show a clear pattern of
heritability (corroborated by the rediscovery of early studies, published in
the 1930s, by Ella J. Day (Day 1932) (for a later comprehensive review, see
Stromswold, 2001, 2006). The identification of language-related genes,
however, was yet to come.
In view of what we will be seeing here below, it needs to be stressed that
the kind of genetics on which linguists based their collaboration was of a
rather traditional, Mendelian kind. In hindsight, we see that the attempt
was to grasp (in Sean Carroll’s felicitous expression (Carroll 2005a) “the
low-hanging fruits of the tree”). That is, the one-mutation/one phenotype
model, so prevalent until very recently.
3.3 The middle period (circa 1985–2000: the low-hanging
fruits of the tree)
The genetic regulation of higher cells, unlike that of bacteria (the
domain studied by Monod and Jacob) soon appeared to present an
altogether higher order of complexity (Britten and Davidson 1969).
Over and above “operator” genes controlling other genes, there were
inducers, integrators, sensors, promoters, batteries of genes. Further
regulatory mechanisms were to come, but it was already acknowl-
edged that this complexity in gene regulation was bound to have
decisive and innovative consequences for evolution. Regulatory ele-
ments or factors were rapidly turning into whole regulatory networks
(Davidson 2006, 2010). Evolution appeared increasingly to have been
the evolution of these networks. The intimate integration between the
study of evolution and the study of development (later to be called evo-
devo) was rapidly developing, on its way to becoming a whole new
field (Raff 2000).
Linguistic theory had consolidated further and had found a compre-
hensive framework (the Theory of Government and Binding). The idea of
parametric variation had been refined and had found several applica-
tions. A restricted number of syntactic modules had been identified and
their fine inter-digitation explained the nature of distinct levels of repre-
sentation, and the licensed operations on these. The detailed analysis of
agrammatism revealed specific disruptions, establishing solid bridges
between linguistic theory and neuroscience (Grodzinsky 2000). It was
becoming more and more frequent, and more and more relevant, to
find evidence pro or con specific syntactic hypotheses in brain data and
in data on language acquisition (Wexler 1994). Continuing progress in
brain imaging (PET, fMRI, EEG, then MEG) started producing numerous
publications on brain and language, of unequal level of interest.
Biolinguistics yesterday, today, and tomorrow 15
Basically, however, it became clear that distinct linguistic tasks were
differently localized in the brain, confirming what had been known all
along, but on different bases.
Language pathologies other than aphasia were discovered and finely
analyzed: Specific Language Impairment, Williams Syndrome, Turner
Syndrome, Spina Bifida, and the case of savants. Cumulatively, these
data corroborated the notion that language is modular, both at the
“large” level and the “fine” level (for an impressive recent review see
Curtiss (in press)). On the front of the genetics of language, a new case
opened up, that of FOXP2, raising both legitimate interest and exaggerated
hopes (Piattelli-Palmarini and Uriagereka 2011).
The rise of the Minimalist Program (ever since Chomsky 1995b) created
new opportunities for a biolinguistics concerned with more abstract
properties of language and their plausible correlates in brain and in
acquisition. The mandatory character of linguistic computations and of
their natural constraints (criteria of no-tampering, last resort, strict
locality) became evident, further corroborating an implicit parallel with
the biological notion of switches and regulation. This opened the present
period.
Painting with a broad brush the scene of the intermediate period, I think
that we have witnessed the end of any lingering doubts about the legiti-
macy and the interest of exploring the biological correlates of language.
The initial program of biolinguistics had become, as a matter of fact, a full
domain of inquiry, with several anthologies and, later on, its own scholarly
journal (Biolinguistics). Evidence from different sources had converged
onto a better picture of modularity, maturation, and the poverty of the
stimulus. The “low-hanging fruits” had been collected. A very fine sum-
mary of this period and its main successes is to be found in a book by Lyle
Jenkins and in a volume edited by him (Jenkins 2000, 2004), terminating
with a most illuminating chapter: a synthesis and a brief historical recon-
struction by Chomsky (for a comprehensive recent panorama see
Di Sciullo and Boeckx 2011).
3.4 The present period (ever since circa 2000: the higher
fruits)
Biology is undergoing a further revolution. Not only is the study of gene-
environment interactions becoming a puzzle of increasing difficulty, but
the issue of “missing heritability” (Maher 2008; Manolio et al. 2009) lingers
and is, for the time being, unresolved. This means, in extremely simple
terms, that the classical Mendelian picture of one gene/one phenotype is
rather the exception than the rule, and that, typically, the identification of
dozens of genes related to a disease (the best studied case, for obvious
reasons) only accounts for 3% or 7% of the genetic risk for that disease.
16 M A S S I M O P I A T T E L L I - P A L M A R I N I
No one has doubts that there is a genetic component to the disease, but the
complete picture of the interaction is presently “missing.” The key appears
to be several complex interactions between common variants and rare
ones for each of those genes, and how those genes interact with the rest of
the genome.
Over 25 genes have been identified already as being, in one way or
another, linked to language, some of which regulate other genes also
linked to language (as is the case of FOXP2). Moreover, epigenetics is
actually a field in full expansion, and it’s far from evident how this will
one day connect to linguistics (Vercelli 2009). Collecting the higher fruits
of the tree seems to require a significantly greater effort than ever
imagined.
The panorama of evolutionary theory is slowly but significantly moving
away from classical neo-Darwinism (Fodor and Piattelli-Palmarini
2011), though there is great resistance to admitting that it is so, and this
momentous change, destined to accelerate in the years to come, is
conveniently and prudently presented as an “extension” of the classical
theory (Pigliucci 2009).
The increasing success of evo-devo suggests entirely new ways of
looking at the evolutionary relation between genes, mostly paying atten-
tion to regulatory genes, across species and phyla (Carroll 2005a). The
invariance of the fundamental bricks in evolution goes way beyond what
Jacob had intuited, now covering whole developmental and evolution-
ary modules that we find highly conserved even across distant species
and phyla (Schlosser 2004; Wagner 2005). A consequence is that, in the
domain of language, as in other domains, it is perfectly legitimate, and
often very productive, to compare genes, phenotypes, and patterns of
regulation in distant species. For instance humans and songbirds for the
development of the control of complex vocalizations (Scharff and
Haesler 2005; White et al. 2006), just as is the case for vertebrates and
jellyfish for the development of globular eyes (Piatigorsky and Kozmik
2004). Moving away from the poor analogies between human language
and the painful learning of sign languages by chimps, surely close rela-
tives, we may want to explore more productive comparisons with song-
birds, of which we are only distant relatives.
In fact, one consequence of the modularity of development and the
modularity of mind, is that one module, once activated, may well remain
encapsulated, regardless of its utility for the species, and regardless of the
lack of other organs that may profitably interface with it. The many
complete globular eyes of the box jellyfish encounter no optic nerve and
no brain, though they each have a lens, a cornea, and a retina. The genetic
explanation of what has happened in evolution to produce this anomaly is
well reconstructed. Further surprises of this kind are likely to come from
evo-devo. Evolution and development will probably be better understood
in the future one module at a time.
Biolinguistics yesterday, today, and tomorrow 17
Brain imaging has reached greater sophistication and new methods
are available (such as MEG and near infrared imaging). We may, thus,
hope to go beyond the brain confirmations of long-held hypotheses,
interesting as these confirmations are. It has been reassuring to ascer-
tain, via separate brain activations, that real syntactic computations are
different from superficially similar ones, only possible as an abstract
exercise (Musso et al. 2003) and that real sentences, as well as
Jabberwocky sentences, activate brain areas that are quite distinct
from those activated by a list of words (Pallier, Devauchelle, and
Dehaene 2011). In the future, it will be even more interesting to learn,
perhaps, that linguistic tasks about which we are not so sure (deriving a
phase versus a nonphase) are indeed different, or are not, at the brain
level. But, just as only the revolution in the more basic science (physics)
has once produced a revolution in the less basic one (chemistry), so we
can expect that only a revolution in the neurosciences will produce a
major one in biolinguistics. No one knows at present why the different
brain modules, whose existence leaves no doubt, do different things. All
we can do at present is to link, phenomenologically, one brain region to
a cognitive task, but that’s where the buck stops. Unlike, say, the eye or
the kidneys, whose different functions can be seen directly in their
different structure, the brain looks to us much the same everywhere.
Surely this is not the case, deep down, but we do not know why. Possibly
the key will be the synchronicity of signals, phase slippages, selective
group coordination, micro-cascades of excitations, or the reverberation
of quantum phenomena inside neurons. The younger generations will
one day know.
On a different front, quite encouraging are, in my opinion the studies
of the abstract invariants of language, at different levels, from the syllable
to phases. (Medeiros, 2008; Piattelli-Palmarini and Uriagereka 2008). These
are the “third factor” in language design (Chomsky 2005), more akin to
a physico-linguistics than to biolinguistics. The road to travel is still
long, but we have the impression of having opened a Pandora’s box.
More and more, such deep regularities, instances of optimization, do
appear in language as we look into it (Medeiros 2012; Uriagereka 2012).
Synergistically, though for the time being mostly independently, deep
invariants and instances of optimization emerge also elsewhere in biology
(Cherniak et al. 2004) (for a brief census, see Part 1 of Fodor, and Piattelli-
Palmarini 2011 reviving a tradition of search for structural invariants that
dates back to D’Arcy Thompson).
A question comes to mind, when witnessing that so much of biological
structure is derived “for free, from physics” (as Chris Cherniak likes to
say) and that there is so much that is explained by a “non-genomic nati-
vism.” The question, simply and radically put, is: why do we also need
DNA and proteins? This is a very hard question to answer, for anyone.
In fact, one of the modern pioneers in this field, Stuart Kauffman,
18 M A S S I M O P I A T T E L L I - P A L M A R I N I
acutely says (Kauffman 1993) that “no body of knowledge” today can
combine the physical and computational deep invariants of biological
systems with the mechanisms of genetics and development. Kauffman’s
characterization is important: no body of knowledge does it, a much more
serious default than that of just lacking a theory or hypothesis, or even a
whole discipline. The future generations, bless them, will one day fill
this great gap.
3.5 Design for a curriculum in biolinguistics
Speaking of future generations, when hopefully biolinguistics will turn
into a domain such that BS or BA majors will exist in some universities,
I will indulge in designing a curriculum, in broad terms. Most of these
courses will have to be created from scratch, as the telegraphic description
I am giving may make clear. So, it’s an ambitious plan, as the new disci-
pline requires.
3.5.1 Basic courses
Introduction to language. Covering the main components: phonology,
morpho-lexicon, syntax, and semantics. With special emphasis on
invariants, universal grammar, and parametric change.
Introduction to biology. With special emphasis on common Baupläne,
gene regulatory networks, developmental, and genetic modules.
Introduction to computational mechanisms. Quite different from the
standard computer science basic courses (where students are mostly
taught to program in Java). Mechanisms for divide-and-conquer and
recursion; memorization (remembering the results of repeated com-
putations); dynamic programming and data organization (for efficient
access and search, indexing, graphs); parallelism (process communi-
cation, embarrassingly parallel problems, map-reduce); functions and
their inverses (one-to-many, many-to-one, one-way, cryptographic
basis); finite state machines, stacks, tapes; Turing computability
(how to think about these mechanisms or building blocks). Key rele-
vant concepts include: determinism/non-determinism, computa-
tional complexity, etc.
Introduction to physics. Basically, the physics needed to understand the
nervous impulse, and the principles of functioning of MRI, fMRI, MEG,
EEG, and near infrared.
Basic calculus. The analysis of functions, elementary differential equa-
tions, maximization and minimization, variational calculus.
Introduction to logic. Sets, operations on sets, propositional calculus,
predicate calculus, quantifiers, scope.
Biolinguistics yesterday, today, and tomorrow 19
3.5.2 Intermediate level courses
Neurobiology. Special emphasis on the modular evolution of the nervous
system. Synaptogenesis, stability and instability of neuron networks,
interactions of synaptic potentials. Neuroimaging techniques.
Human genetics. History of the domain, from inborn errors of metabo-
lism to the present scene. Special emphasis on the different kinds of
genotype–phenotype relations and on gene-environment interac-
tions. The study of twins. Epigenetics, the case of missing heritabil-
ity, main techniques of gene identification and of estimating
variation, common variants versus rare variants, estimates of
genetic risk.
Brain imaging. The different techniques, their advantages and their limi-
tations with special attention to language-related data. Critical evalu-
ation of the statistical analyses adopted and of the conclusions they
allow or do not allow.
Language pathologies. Various kinds of aphasia, SLI, Williams Syndrome,
the case of savants, Turner Syndrome, Spina Bifida. All these cases
analyzed in the light of precise linguistic hypotheses, as evidence pro
or con such hypotheses.
Linguistics. Intermediate courses, with special emphasis on syntactic
theory and the semantics of natural language.
Language acquisition. With special emphasis on the relation between
linguistic hypotheses and longitudinal data on acquisition, in several
languages.
3.5.3 Advanced courses
Theories of evolution. A critical historical panorama of evolutionary theo-
ries, from early Darwinism to neo-Darwinism and the modern synthe-
sis. Evo-devo and its consequences. Modularity, robustness, and
evolvability. The search for the laws of form, deep invariants, instances
of optimization.
Neuroscience. Principles of brain evolution. The physics of neurons and
neuronal networks. Comparative ontogenesis of the brain across
phyla. Ablation, regeneration, gene regulatory mechanisms. Computer
models of brain modules.
Philosophy of linguistic theories. Critical historical reconstruction of the
central concepts in linguistic theory. Representations, derivations,
constraints, locality. Principles and parameters yesterday and today.
Formal analyses (the hierarchy of automata) versus virtual conceptual
necessity. Explanatory adequacy and beyond.
Quantum physics. Room at the bottom, inside the neuron. Microtubules
and quantum coherence. Fundamentals of quantum computation and
its biological correlates.
20 M A S S I M O P I A T T E L L I - P A L M A R I N I
The mathematics of life. Fractals, attractors, strange attractors. Fibonacci
series. Bifurcations, instabilities, pattern formation. Scale invariants.
Biolinguistics. Bringing all this together. Revisiting the canonical cases
with a new eye. Classics of biolinguistic inquiry, old and new prob-
lems, puzzles, and mysteries.
Biolinguistics yesterday, today, and tomorrow 21
4
The philosophical
foundations of
biolinguistics
James McGilvray
4.1 What is biolinguistics?
There are various ways to study how language is related to biology. Few,
however, proceed on the assumption that language is a biologically based
“organ” inside the head of humans that perhaps results from a single
mutation, an organ that develops automatically in normal humans to –
apparently – yield a virtually “perfect” solution to the issue of how to take
“atomic” concepts and combine them to yield the elements and structures
of complex thoughts. This is the approach of the minimalist research
program of Chomsky and others. Its ultimate success is, of course, an
empirical issue. But it is by no means an outré program. It is a reasonable
naturalistic and mentalistic research program, representing the most
advanced study of a part of the mind in a successful line of naturalistic,
internalist, and nativist research programs (Chomsky 2007a; Chomsky and
McGilvray 2012; Jenkins 2000).
Before trying to speak to what the philosophical foundations for biolin-
guistics are, it is important to specify what kind of “entity” biolinguistics
is. It is a research program that encompasses several specific lines of
research, all of which proceed on the assumption that human language
is, at least in significant measure, a domain-specific biologically based
system, a cognitive “organ” of the mind that interchanges specific forms
of “information” with other mental systems. This research program in
turn proceeds within the scope of a justified research strategy for the
study of mind and its various components, including language. And this
strategy is in turn again a variety of a proven naturalistic scientific method-
ology that is appropriate for all forms of naturalistic research. These levels
of description of scientific study move from the more specific to the more
general, but even at the most general level – that which constitutes a
methodology for constructing a (natural) science – they do not by any
means encompass the full range of human cognitive capacity or, indeed,
what is for most people now and an even greater majority before around
1600, the only cognitive capacity they need deploy. Common sense suf-
fices for getting along in the world, and by far the great majority of people
was, is and probably will continue to be content to employ common sense
and its ways of understanding the world alone, however different the view
of the world they yield might for theoretical and explanatory purposes be.
Indeed, for most of their lives, naturalistic scientists default to these
commonsense tools too.
In the following, I speak to the issue of what the philosophical under-
pinnings of biolinguistics are in reverse order. That is also the chronolog-
ical order. Natural science as we understand it had its beginnings early in
the seventeenth century with the work of Galileo, Descartes, and to an
extent Francis Bacon and others. Others might wish to trace science back
to Leonardo da Vinci or John Bacon, perhaps even earlier to Aristotle, the
atomists, Plato with his mathematization of substances and the world
order, and the Pythagoreans who wanted to geometrize the world. It was
not until the seventeenth century, however, that the kinds of explanation
offered by natural science began to be possible with the quantification and
formalization in theories of natural processes and the rejection of final
causes.
In detailing the origins of natural science methodology, I focus on
Descartes. Galileo’s contributions to methodology were significant too,
but not – I believe – as systematic as Descartes’s, nor as far-reaching.
There is another reason to focus on Descartes. Unlike Galileo or any
other early “natural philosopher,” he also made a significant contribution
to the strategy to adopt in studying the mind, especially with regard to
language. And he even made suggestions concerning “innate ideas” that
suggest adopting what became a biological research program. So his work
serves to unify the discussion. I should remark that I do not see my task as
trying to faithfully represent Descartes’s actual views: while I think I can
show that he did hold what I attribute to him, he was also a creature of his
time and held views about the mind, language, and method that should be
abandoned. These include his mind–body substance dualism, which was,
however, a reasonable view to maintain, given the options Descartes had
available.
4.2 The methodology of naturalistic research
As suggested above, human cognitive (“problem-solving”) capacities
appear to fall into two general areas – commonsense understanding on
the one hand and what Chomsky calls “science formation” (constructing
sciences in accord with a naturalistic methodology) on the other (Chomsky
1975, 1995a, 2000a, 2007b). All humans mobilize the first kind of capacity;
The philosophical foundations of biolinguistics 23
they must, in order to survive. It is rather easy for them to do so because
humans who exercise commonsense understanding can rely heavily on a
rich and apparently innate resource of concepts such as PERSON, TREE,
STONE, RIVER, TABLE and many thousands of others, plus the innate
combinatory resources of a natural language.
These concepts are of little to no use in advanced formal sciences.
Formal sciences are, of course, the kind of sciences the biolinguist aims
to construct. They cannot employ the concepts of common sense. That is
because these seem to be designed to serve human anthropocentric inter-
ests, not objective description. That provides benefits, of course: concepts
such as these allow for acceptable and reasonably swift and interest-
sensitive solutions to the problems of our practical (sometimes called
“moral”) life – those of walking the dog, constructing states and other
social institutions, and so on, plus those of assessing the value of cooper-
ative and individual actions, of economic distributions, of art – in general,
virtually everything having to do with what it is to be an agent or actor and
an assessor of actions and the results of actions. They do not provide for the
objective descriptions and explanations of events and “things” that one
hopes to offer in the sciences.
From this perspective, the social sciences are not among the natural
sciences, for they continue to use at least the central concepts of what
is sometimes called “folk psychology,” such as belief and desire. Efforts
to formalize and quantify applications of concepts such as these do not
yield context-independent, frame-independent, and non-anthropocentric
descriptions and explanations in the way that applications of ELECTRON
or HOX GENE do, however much one might want them to.
The distinction between common sense and science, and the need to
make it, goes back to the beginnings of the scientific revolution as we
understand it. The distinction and reasons to maintain it are found in one
of Descartes’s major works on what he calls “the method,” specifically, his
Discourse on the Method of Rightly Conducting the Reason, and Seeking Truth in the
Sciences, first published in 1637.1
In the first paragraph of the main text he
notes that what he calls “bon sens” or “the power of distinguishing truth
from error” is available to all. To be available to all it must, of course, rely
on innate (readily available/readily triggered) concepts (for Descartes’s
plausible view of innateness, see below). That is necessary to allow the
concepts/ideas to be largely shared, without undergoing extensive training
or education. Judgments presuppose the capacity to distinguish truth from
error, and to be able to judge is to be able to put concepts together in
sentential form and – adding to these “forces” such as assertion – to make
judgments.2
The capacity to distinguish truth from error is revealed in
employing judgments that are appropriate to the circumstances in which
they are applied. As the discussion of the use of language at the end of Part
V of the Discourse clearly indicates, these circumstances include discourse
(and surely coherent thought) circumstances, not just those present to
24 J A M E S M C G I LV R A Y
hand. It is this complex capacity to employ language to put together and
make judgments, apparently, that comes “for free” to everyone. The
results are context-dependent and sensitive to human interests and sen-
sory capacities, but still truths.
This readily available capacity and its exercise cannot, though, be what
is involved in science, for in Descartes’s view and in ours, scientific con-
cepts and the capacity to make scientific judgments by relying on the
resources of a theory are by no means readily available “to all.” If they
were, Descartes would have recognized that the method that he was so
pleased to have developed, a method that he believed to reliably through
the construction of sciences (scientific theories) and their concepts yield
interest-independent objective truths about natural events, not merely
practical truths, was already not just readily available to all, but often
employed by at least some. Indeed, if it were readily available, it would
have to be because concepts such as MUON and the combinatory opera-
tions of the standard model of elementary particle physics (or of optics, to
take an example of an area in which Descartes made a contribution) were
innate and readily activated, and the theories in which they are lodged
readily acquired. That is, of course, not the case at all. It took centuries of
efforts to make progress to reach the point we have even in the advanced
science of physics, a science that is still far from complete. Perhaps the
capacity to do science after or in conforming to “the method” is available to
all; that is, by honoring the method, anyone can come to develop reliable
theories. But the method was definitely not followed by very many and at
the time there was little sympathy for its results, which were almost
universally rejected by stalwart defenders – clerics, philosophers, politi-
cians – of the misconceptions about what is “out there” that common
sense can lead to. (Note that often still one finds defense of commonsense
notions of mind, and especially language, in the work of various varieties
of cognitive scientists.) None of this is surprising: commonsense notions
are attractive because they are readily understood and applied (not readily
defined, but readily understood). And as noted above, humans can and
have survived and sometimes thrived for millennia without any more
insight into the world and other people and their minds than that afforded
by unaided common sense and its innate concepts and flexible and often
appropriate judgments.
What, then, is the method as Descartes saw it? I begin by outlining what I
suggest are the distinctive features of the method of naturalistic scientific
investigation as understood now, and then return to Descartes (and
Galileo, where appropriate)3
to point to strains in his thought about
method and its application that could plausibly have developed into cur-
rent understanding of scientific method. I ignore Francis Bacon entirely,
for while he was influential in developing something that these days is
often associated with John Stuart Mill (“Mill’s Methods”), his thought on
the matter was less comprehensive than what is found in Descartes, and he
The philosophical foundations of biolinguistics 25
did not place Descartes’s emphasis on employing formalization (mathe-
matization) and seeking simplicity, coherence, and comprehensiveness in
the construction of what we would now call empirical theories. In ignoring
Bacon (and Mill), I am also going against what in the popular mind these
days is thought of as “the scientific method.” For many, that method is
fairly straightforward: observe, note contrasts and similarities, construct
hypotheses/models, test … Something called “induction” is given a central
place, even in the task of producing hypotheses, for which (as Charles
Saunders Peirce emphasized) one really needs “abduction” instead.
Generally, while something like Bacon’s and Mill’s prescriptions might
have roles in (say) developing generalizations that a theory can explain and
in gathering data and evidence in a fair and statistically adequate way, they
say little substantive about the nature and role of theory and fail to address
central matters of theoretical adequacy. They do little but point in the
direction of seeking good observational evidence, posing problems for
theory to explain, and offering reasonably reliable observational
generalizations.
We can describe the method of naturalistic scientific theory-
construction by outlining the desiderata for a naturalistic theory – what
makes a theory a good one. Natural scientists when constructing theories
are engaged on reaching a reasonably well-understood and uniform –
although not necessarily articulated – set of goals. Listing these goals
indicates what such a scientist is looking to construct/discover when
they engage in constructing and providing evidence for a set of hypoth-
eses/theory. By outlining those goals, we can also – given the theory’s
subject matter – come to understand what a scientist must do in order to
satisfy the desiderata. In compressed form, I suggest that the relevant aims/
desiderata are these: to seek descriptive and explanatory adequacy;
employ explicit, formal symbols; aim towards simplicity in the theory
and look for it in the theory’s subject matter; ensure objectivity in the
theory and its characterization of its subject matter (avoid anthropocen-
tricity, perspective-dependence, and dependence on context); aim your
efforts at constructing a theory towards ensuring that it can be accommo-
dated to other relevant – and usually more basic – theories that bear on
your subject matter; and finally, never assume that your theory is com-
plete and – in connection with that – ensure that your efforts at construct-
ing a theory make progress in better satisfying one or more of the
desiderata mentioned above.
Descriptive adequacy and explanatory adequacy need comment. In any
mathematical/formal science and/or a science that deals with infinite
domains (such as grammars, or theories of language) descriptive adequacy
has to do with adequately enumerating and describing all the “elements”
that constitute the “things” or “events” of the theory’s domain and assign-
ing them the “right” properties or features, where none of the properties
or elements need be observable in any everyday sense. Natural sciences in
26 J A M E S M C G I LV R A Y
advanced forms are generally speaking postulational sciences – that is,
their theories postulate or hypothesize an unobserved system of entities
with various theory-assigned properties or features. It is these entities,
structures, properties, and features that need to be adequately described.
No doubt one of the tasks for the postulated system(s) is to in some way
“account for” relevant observations and evidence. They might do so by
indicating how microstructures in various states reliably lead to specified
observed phenomena, or by indicating how sequences of events linked by
laws within an unobserved microsystem reliably lead to changes in
observed phenomena. (By “observed” and “observable” I have in mind
what the human sensory systems and the deployment of commonsense
concepts accomplish and can accomplish. That suffices for current purpo-
ses.) In the case of the science of language, one set of observations a
postulated system should account for is the poverty of the stimulus obser-
vations; another is the creative aspect of language use observations.
As for explanatory adequacy: it includes much more than yielding reli-
able predictions, even where it is a causal theory at stake. It can include
ensuring that puzzle cases are resolved, clarifying the bounds of a theory
(its assumptions about background and boundary conditions), identifying
and adequately speaking to “crucial experiments,” suggesting fruitful
ways to look for evidence and engage new data, attempting to say why
things are the way they are, reconciling differences with other theories,
ensuring coherence, dealing with “global” matters, and the like. That is a
very full slate, but as a rule, coming up with a good answer to one issue can
lead to coming up with a good answer to others. Sometimes, however,
focusing on a single difficult issue and providing an inadequate account
can block consideration of other issues.
To illustrate both of these points from the science of language: while
coherence and an effort to deal with puzzle cases, among other factors,
played roles in the Aspects’ (Chomsky 1965) view of explanatory adequacy,
the core of the explanatory adequacy issue was seen at the time to be that
of coming up with a solution to the grammar acquisition issue in a way
that made sense of the poverty of the stimulus observations. There is
nothing unusual in this, as indicated above: any natural scientist tries –
typically by postulating a hidden system or structure – to “explain the
appearances,” which in this case amount to the facts of acquisition, the
poverty of the stimulus observations. Chomsky’s (1965) proposed solution
to that problem, a proposal found also in his earlier work (Chomsky 1951/
1979, 1957, 1955/1975), employed an “evaluation” procedure that “chose”
between alternative grammars for the input to a child’s mind (that is,
linguistic experience) by appealing to a postulated innate mathematically
based measure of the “internal” simplicity of a theory/grammar. The
postulated measure yields an “evaluation procedure,” a way to assess the
relative complexity of two grammars to which the measure is applied. Like
many proposals in the early days of a science, it was the best available at
The philosophical foundations of biolinguistics 27
the time, all things considered. But it also cried out for a better solution.
Not only did it do only a fair job of making sense of the observed poverty
facts, but because it made it difficult to see how to deal with other explan-
atory matters, it blocked efforts to deal with them.
Remember that the aim of the scientist of language is to satisfy as well as
possible the goals of the natural scientist. Arguably for Chomsky from the
early 1950s, and certainly for him (see, for example, Chomsky 1972b/2006,
originally published in 1968) and for Eric Lenneberg and Morris Halle from
the mid 1960s on (Chomsky 2007a; Chomsky and McGilvray 2012), it was
apparent that the study of language would have to somehow be coordi-
nated with the study of biology. If there were to be an adequate account of
the poverty of the stimulus facts, that account would have to somehow be
based on an account of biologically based growth and development.
Coordination with biology would help provide answers to other funda-
mental explanatory questions and also provide a route to accommodate
the science of language to another science, to make the science of lan-
guage objective, and better meet other methodological desiderata for
natural science. You can, for example, get at least a partial answer to the
issue of why language is the way it is if you have available a defensible
account of what language is (descriptive adequacy) and language’s evolu-
tion. “God did it” might have satisfied Descartes (although I doubt it really
did), but no natural scientist since should be satisfied with that answer, at
least in his or her working life. Yet a defensible account of language
evolution (and not merely a just-so story) appeared to be well out of sight
in the 1960s because the solution to the acquisition question offered in
Chomsky (1965) and earlier depended on assuming a rich and complex
biologically based innate “format” for any possible language. You need
something like that to – at the very least – provide a way to make sense of
how the child’s mind manages to construct alternative grammars to which
an evaluation procedure could apply. The format’s richness and complex-
ity, however, made it all but impossible to conceive of how the acquisition
of language could depend on an evolved biological growth procedure. For
how could evolution within a single species without precedent in homo-
logues or even analogues come to yield a genomic specification for any one
of many languages conforming to a complex and rich format? And the
matter was complicated further by the fact that – as Lewontin (1998) points
out – no evidence for the gradual evolution of language was available, and
given what was known about the evolution of the human species which
uniquely has language (Hauser, Chomsky, and Fitch 2002), it appeared that
it was very unlikely that any could be found. There was no plausible
answer to the issue of how a complex format could have evolved, nor, as
a consequence, were there answers to related questions, such as why
language is the way it is. To even begin to conceive of how to get an answer
to the evolutionary issue of a sort that made sense of what was known
about the evolution of the human species, and the human species alone,
28 J A M E S M C G I LV R A Y
biology’s (the genome’s) contribution to grammar growth (to the develop-
ment of a grammar in a child’s head) would on the face of it have to be
greatly simplified, and ideally, reduced sufficiently that language – or at
least the basic combinatorial system – could have come to be introduced as
the result of a single mutation in a single humanoid individual.
One key to opening the door to coordination with biology and to dealing
with other explanatory issues came in the early 1980s with the Principles
and Parameters picture of acquisition (Chomsky 1981a, 1986b). That pic-
ture made options available for alternative grammars where these options
were seen as subject not to a relative evaluation procedure of already
available grammars, but to an innate and automatic “selection,” perhaps
even “decision” procedure. In effect, the child’s mind (not the linguist’s)
has available to it a “mechanical” way of providing what in the early days
of Chomsky’s work was called a “discovery procedure” that (quickly)
creates a grammar from a set of inputs or data. The set of grammatical
options is conceived to be fixed (perhaps not just in UG, but also in other
nature-based “formative” factors constraining growth that need not be
under genomic control), and acquisition is portrayed not as a construction
and comparison procedure, but as merely a procedure of setting
“switches” or toggling between fixed options. The child’s mind does not
hypothesize alternative grammars, but just grows a single one. A second
key was provided by the minimalist program’s insistence on meeting
solely “bare phrase structure” requirements and eliminating all “artifacts”
such as DS and SS from grammars, making grammars as simple as possible
(Chomsky 1993, 1995b). The apparent need for a complex architecture for
grammars disappeared. A third key came with the introduction of Merge
and Move as the sole grammatical operations and – thereafter – further
simplification with the inclusion of Move within (Internal) Merge accom-
panied by the “copy” account of movement, which isn’t movement at all,
followed then by phases (Chomsky 2001, 2002b, 2008). There were other
keys too, but the ones mentioned suffice for illustration.
There were also apparent obstacles. For one, the introduction of micro-
parameters and the possibility that there are an infinite number of them
appeared to complicate the descriptive task and made a “switching” pro-
cedure involving only a finite and preferably small set of parametric
options look unrealistic. Two proposals contributed to overcoming this
block, and doing more besides. First, parameters came more and more
plausibly to be seen as restricted to the computational path that led to the
production of sound/sign (essentially, to “linearizing” an expression in
such a way that it could be presented in temporal sequence), and not
involved on the path to the “semantic interface,” allowing – in principle –
for a uniform computational procedure for all I-languages on the path to
the semantic interface, if not the phonetic one. That allowed for the
possibility that evolution of the combinatory system of language began
with the introduction of the capacity to generate complex thoughts, with
The philosophical foundations of biolinguistics 29
this capacity amounting only to a simple form of recursion like that found
in the natural number system. Links to sound/sign might have come later.
And in a connected vein, second, it allowed for the possibility that param-
eters (including non-finite scalars?), or at least most of them, could be
removed entirely from the genome (UG) and all located instead in “third
factor” (Chomsky 2005) constraints on growth. Taken together, these
proposals placed the apparent complexity and diversity of language in
the externalization or linearization path and removed the apparent need
to clutter UG with a large number of options. It was also congenial to some
insights of the growing biological science of evo-devo (Carroll 2005b, Fodor
and Piattelli-Palmarini 2011; see also Waddington 1940, 1942 and his
views on canalization). And it allowed for the possibility that UG consists
in Merge alone. If so – and also by placing the acquisition of phonological/
phonetic features and semantic ones too outside the scope of the job UG
had to perform – the evolution of language could be conceived to have
occurred as the result of a single mutation in a single individual that was
capable of producing progeny with the mutation intact, with that muta-
tion consisting in the introduction of Merge and thereby a very simple but
apparently human-unique version of recursion (Berwick and Chomsky
2011; Chomsky and McGilvray, 2012; see also Hauser, Chomsky, and
Fitch 2002; Chomsky 2007a,b,c; for a dissenting view, see Pinker and
Jackendoff 2005) that in the first instance joins concepts to each other to
yield thoughts or what Chomsky (1995a, 2000) prefers to call “perspec-
tives.” Recursion leading to these complexes of “semantic information”
affords considerable survival value, of course, although that is of little
interest as such. Selection does not build structure; it merely notes the
continuation of a structure made available by mutation. And perhaps the
recursive procedure central to language’s combinatory capacity is some-
how “anticipated” or allowed for in biophysical options (Thompson 1917/
1942/1992; Turing 1992; Fodor and Piattelli-Palmarini, 2011).
The saltational account of the evolution of language that this story
allows for might even – unlike virtually every other story told about the
evolution of language and more generally cognitive capacities (Lewontin
1998; one of his targets is Pinker and Bloom, 1990) – prove to be one for
which one can find evidence in (among other things) archaeological and
anthropological studies. Obvious examples include various pieces of evi-
dence of “the great leap forward” (as Jared Diamond called it) in human
cognitive range. Plausibly, the extraordinary degree to which humans
enjoy cognitive advantages compared to their close primate relatives is
due primarily and perhaps exclusively to the introduction of language, or
at least recursion over concepts, which appears to be unique to humans.
Other explanatory issues that can now at least begin to be addressed
include the “design” issue and why language appears to be a “perfect” (or
at least nearly perfect) answer to it. There is also the issue of “words” and
why they have the “edge” characteristics that they appear to have
30 J A M E S M C G I LV R A Y
(Chomsky 2008). Even just opening up ways to begin to address these and
other issues represents progress of the sort that one hopes for in construct-
ing a natural science – quite remarkable progress in a science of language
that has been in place for only a little more than half a century, I suggest.
Returning now to the other desiderata for a (natural) science and not
illustrating in anything like the detail found above, formalization or insist-
ing on employing formal, explicit theoretical “language” in a theory
should need little comment. It is a general characteristic of all well-
developed mathematized theories and it is often connected with matters
of quantification of values. But it is more than that. In the case of gram-
mars, it has little to do with quantification, but a lot to do with generativ-
ity; and one reason lexical study is still in its infancy is that we lack a
reasonably good account of the theoretical terms to employ when dealing
with semantic features.
Then there is simplicity, which is a recognizable trait in a theory,
although the subject of much discussion because it is an elusive desider-
atum of scientific methodology. It appears in several forms, some exam-
ples of which appear above: elegant formalization, efficiency and
effectiveness, minimizing primitives, efforts to eliminate extraneous arti-
facts, computational minimalization, and the like. While some minimalist
program practices already mentioned reflect some of these, it is important
to remember that both “theory general” simplicity and what Chomsky in
Aspects called “internal” simplicity have played prominent roles in gram-
mar construction efforts for decades. Similar strains of thought are found
in Chomsky’s (1955/1975) Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory, in different
form in Chomsky (1957), and in different form again in his very early
Goodman- and Quine-inspired efforts to explore the prospects of nominal-
ism, now on a distant back burner. Improvements in simplicity (of the
relevant sorts) are signs of a theory making progress. That is actually quite
a surprising fact: there is no guarantee that nature itself is simple.
The demand for objectivity is, or should be, obvious: eliminating appeals
to anthropocentric concerns has been a central feature of efforts to con-
struct theories from the beginning of the scientific revolution. It can
mislead – as, for example, with Frege and his assumption that the right
way to ensure objectivity (as with what he called “senses”) is to make them
into abstract objects. Arguably, it mattered little in his case because he was
constructing a semantics for mathematics, not for a natural language. It
would be a much more serious mistake to assume that it would be an
appropriate way to ensure objectivity in constructing a naturalistic theory
of language, taking this (and its meanings) to be a natural object.
As for accommodation to other theories, I use Chomsky’s (1995a, 2000a)
term “accommodation” to – as he does – employ a term that encompasses
various specific ways to relate one theory and its primitives and principles
to another. Reduction is one such relation, but only one. Accommodation
in some form has long been a desideratum of science; a twentieth-century
The philosophical foundations of biolinguistics 31
example of how important it is is found in the effort to launch and carry
out a series of publications beginning in 1938 with Charles Morris’s
Foundations of the Theory of Signs and later including several central texts in
the philosophy of science. The motivation for the series is obvious in its
title, the International Encyclopedia of Unified Sciences. Accommodation is
clearly related to other desiderata, such as simplicity and explanatory
adequacy, but it also deserves independent mention.
Finally, there is progress. This – progress in one or more of the desiderata
mentioned above – is a hallmark of a good theory. It distinguishes theories
from conjectures following conjectures with no evident progress in the
one that follows another, and distinguishes it too from virtually all philo-
sophical and like “theories.” Progress of the relevant sorts is a sign that a
theory does to at least a degree “cut nature at its joints.”
With what is, I hope, a reasonable sketch of the methods and desiderata
of naturalistic research as conceived today in mind, I return to Descartes.
The Discourse compresses Descartes’s “method” into four rules. The first
insists that one never accept as true anything that does not meet a test of
certainty, where the test consists in allowing nothing but that which
“presented itself to my mind so clearly and so distinctly that I had not
occasion to doubt it” (Descartes 1984–5, vol. I: 120). This passage has
received a great deal of highly critical attention, and usually for good
reason: it has little merit as a general principle, and is presented as a
subjective psychological demand, not one that somehow constrains the
workings of the human mind. Looked at in the context of how to go about
constructing a theory, though, one can make sense of it. Certainty has to
go; that is irrelevant to science. But clarity and distinctness make some
sense when thought of as desiderata for scientific theory-construction,
where they can be seen as mind-imposed (not personally or subjectively
imposed) demands to break things down into “simples,” employ precise
formalization, and seek simplicity in theories. Perhaps something like this
is what Colin McGinn (1993) has in mind in his CALM principle (combina-
tory atomism and lawlike mappings). He proposed it as a limitation on
human (scientific) thought – although he is after quite different targets.
The demand to satisfy “clarity and distinctness” does not typically gen-
eralize outside of science. Trying to satisfy these demands in the common-
sense domain typically distorts. As Wittgenstein asked, what do you
“analyze” a broom into? A handle and a brush? How about each bristle/
straw/whatever makes up the brush? Also the binding material? Do any of
this “analysis,” and the broom and its well-understood functions – ones that
virtually define what it is to be a broom – disappear? In contrast, “analysis”
works, and is needed, in the sciences. Similar points apply to Descartes’s
view that in science one be guided by the “light of nature”; this is much like
Galileo’s view that one assumes that nature is “perfect” and well arranged,
along with his view that idealization and simplification that focus on ele-
mental processes are necessary in order to construct sciences.
32 J A M E S M C G I LV R A Y
Also consider Descartes’s use of skepticism in arguing for his method. It is
important, I think, to look at Descartes’s skepticism in light of the fact that it
is probably motivated, in part, by his realization that the world as it appears
to the senses and to commonsense understanding is not the world as it is
understood by using the different route to understanding offered by science.
Descartes’s skepticism (and his solution to it) was unlike traditional versions
including those of the academic skeptics and the Pyrrhonians such as Sextus
Empiricus. It was rather aimed at indicating that by adopting a method that
human beings were capable of developing and applying, one could come to
know more about the nature of a world that differed a great deal from that
accessible through bon sens. No doubt aspects of his efforts to avoid skeptical
doubt, such as his reliance upon an all-perfect and good God, can only be
taken seriously when reinterpreted in terms of something like Galileo’s
suggestion that the scientist think of nature as perfect. But by way of
partially excusing Descartes, keep in mind that he had to live in a world
with clerics and compliant governments that were not averse to using
physical and mental punishments to get individuals to conform to official
dogma. Descartes was well aware of Galileo’s fate.
The second rule is “to divide each of the difficulties I examined into as
many parts as possible as may be required in order to resolve them better”
(Vol. I: 120). Treating this again as not a global recommendation but one
that might yield knowledge in the domain(s) of science, it looks essentially
like an addendum to the way I suggested construing the first rule. It needs
little further comment. The third rule is “to direct my thoughts in an
orderly manner, by beginning with the simplest and most easily known
objects in order to ascend, little by little, step by step, to knowledge of the
most complex, and by supposing some order even among objects that have
no natural order of precedence” (Vol. I: 120). This rule is more problematic.
It clearly shows the influence of Descartes’s notion of proof in geometry
and logic and it is fundamental to his foundationalist project, one that is
difficult to take seriously today, given the failures of logical positivism’s
efforts, as well as the failures of like projects.
That aspect of the third rule is of little current interest, however impor-
tant it might have been to Descartes in his effort to indicate that
mathematized-formal “connections” and theories are central to science,
and despite the role it might have played in his criticism of Galileo.4
The
more important (for our purposes) aspect of the third rule appears in the
final phrase, “by supposing some order even among objects that have no
natural order of precedence.” Construed as an early suggestion that the
various sciences and their subject matters need to be unified in some
way, and the demand that one look for “first principles” that can unify
and support a coherent and comprehensive theory, it is both interesting
and apropos. It is relevant here that Descartes had no doubt himself that he
had in his contact mechanics offered what would these days be thought of
as a theory of everything except for – as we will see – the mind and its free
The philosophical foundations of biolinguistics 33
actions. As he rather foolishly believed, unification of different theories of
nature would not be needed; he already had something that in his view
encompassed everything from neural signaling to the orbits of solar and
planetary satellites. Perhaps that is another reason he thought order of
argument to be closely linked to comprehensiveness-completeness-
unification.
And finally, the fourth: “throughout to make enumerations so complete,
and reviews so comprehensive, that I could be sure of leaving nothing out”
(Vol. I: 120). This looks like a demand for descriptive and explanatory
adequacy and, once again, comprehensiveness and unity or coherence.
As noted, he thought that his contact mechanics left no room for any other
theories, so the task of theory accommodation that is so obvious today
would not have arisen. That said, it is still plausible, I think, to suggest that
he believed unity and comprehensiveness to be a crucial desideratum for
scientific investigation.
On the whole, I believe Descartes constructed and advocated a method
for the naturalistic scientist that with some charity can be seen as antici-
pating modern practices. I have left two of the stated desiderata out. One is
the demand for objectivity. That can, however, be taken as presupposed in
the distinction between common sense and science. There were already in
place in Galileo’s and Copernicus’s works significant challenges to
Aristotle’s anthropocentric picture of the cosmos and of causation, and
already atomism or corpuscularianism were dominant themes of “natural
philosophy.” Boyle exploited their resources when he developed his chem-
istry shortly after Descartes. The other is progress. In that regard, had
Descartes lived long enough, he would have found that his supposedly
all-encompassing contact mechanics was fundamentally flawed. Among
other things, its account of gravitation – as Newton’s inverse square law
showed – was hopeless. That would have indicated that a contact mechan-
ics is neither descriptively nor explanatorily adequate, and far from com-
prehensive. It would also have demanded a complete re-assessment of
what Descartes took “objects” to be, and more fundamentally, challenged
his notion of a physical science and his view of nature to the exclusion of
the human mind (all other minds – God’s and angels’ excepted, no doubt,
could – he thought – be captured by his contact mechanics, including its
account of neural signaling and coordination).
Some aspects of Descartes’s scientific work survive. One is his view of
neural structure and signaling. He thought of the nervous system as a
system of interconnecting and valved/gated pipes that carried not electri-
cal signals in the form of spikes, but something like a fluid (“animal
spirits”) under pressure. Means apart, however, Descartes’s account is
close to contemporary views. Another bears on the limits of scientific
theory-construction. Stipulations, misguided assumptions, and expres-
sions of hope aside, his observations on language use and its creative
aspects in the fifth part of the Discourse remain in place essentially
34 J A M E S M C G I LV R A Y
unchallenged.5
It is quite clear that what can also be called “free will”
remains outside the bounds of scientific investigation. That topic comes up
below in my outline of the philosophical background of the research
strategy that biolinguistics adheres to.
4.3 A research strategy for the naturalistic study of mind
Moving now from naturalistic methodology to an appropriate research
strategy for the naturalistic study of mind and of language in particular,
the study of mental systems should be both nativist and internalist. Here
is why.
The naturalistic science methodology outlined above applies to the
subject matters of all naturalistic scientific research (Chomsky speaks of
“methodological monism”). No distinction is made between studies of
systems inside the head or mind as opposed to those outside, nor are
there other subject-matter-dependent restrictions. Perhaps if it turned
out that studies of what is inside the head were not successful – as suc-
cessful as one can expect any naturalistic science to be, that is: not every
puzzle or mystery responds to the methodology in question – there would
be need for a distinction. But so far, that is not the case. Philosophers might
complain that natural science does not yield an account of the person’s
point of view. But that is irrelevant. That is not what a study aimed towards
objectivity can be asked to do (cf. Russell 1948). For that purpose, go to
literature, poetry, and perhaps other forms of art, not natural science.
Natural sciences seem to work where their subject matters are “fixed by
nature.” They have little to offer in the domain of human artifacts, includ-
ing states, economies, and other institutions – and even less (in fact, likely
nothing) in the case of individual human actions, including those actions
that we call “using language.” These are products of choice, meeting
interests and desires. Excluded from dealing with choice and action, the
natural scientist of mind looks for the natural systems and connections
between them that underlie and allow for choice. In effect, then, when
applied to the study of mind and mental systems, natural science method-
ology assumes nativism. The nativism in question is a nativism of “machi-
nery.” Assuming that humans are biological organisms, the machinery is
the machinery of development and growth – morphogenesis and onto-
genesis. Biolinguists proceed on nativist assumptions of this sort and
include among the issues that they have to address the details of the
mechanisms that yield what is aptly called “the language organ.” They
also seek to answer how this mechanism and its product came to be
introduced into the human species (evolution), why there are obvious
differences in languages (parameters and microparameters), plus how the
organ functions (satisfying descriptive adequacy in an objective way), and
in that vein, whether this functioning represents “good design” (whether
The philosophical foundations of biolinguistics 35
it is a near-perfect “solution” to the “task” it performs as the organ of
language) or is rather the product of biological “tinkering.” There has been
some progress on all these fronts; there is some illustration of this above,
and other contributions to this volume provide considerably more detail.
For my purposes, the central point is that naturalistic methods applied to
the mind presuppose a form of nativism, and that nativism is one of at
least two basic research assumptions of what is often called a “rationalist”
approach to the study of mind.
Not everyone is willing to assume that language (apart from its use) is a
natural object. For some – the “common man” and many cognitive scien-
tists still – it is primarily a social institution invented by humans over
millennia and – a few rather minor concessions to nativism aside – acquir-
ing a language is not a matter of automatic growth or development, but a
matter of “learning” that proceeds by getting a child’s linguistic “prac-
tices” found in his or her use of language to conform to those of a “speech
community.” For those who believe this is the correct view of language and
its learning, strong nativist assumptions are rejected and the aim is to get a
child to conform in its “speech habits” with those in his or her “linguistic
community.” This anti-nativism is characteristic of what is often called the
“empiricist” approach to minds and their contents.6
Empiricists are anti-
nativist. In placing language outside the head, moreover, they are “exter-
nalist”: language is designed by humans, and its form and rules are fixed
not by nature, but by the shapes given it by the humans who create it.7
Now, if empiricists are anti-nativist and externalist in their view of how to
go about studying a crucial mental system, one might expect that in
contrast, rationalists are not just nativist but also internalist in their
strategies for the study of mental systems. Generally, they are. There are
independent reasons for adopting this strategy, but Descartes led the way
by divorcing the study of whatever in the mind is involved in language
from the use to which a person puts his or her language.
Descartes and other rationalists built nativist assumptions into studies of
mind well before anyone undertook to apply naturalistic research tech-
niques to the study of mind and its components (see Chomsky 1966/2002/
2009 and my introduction to the 2009 edition, Chomsky 1980/2005, 1995a,
2000a). That is not surprising. It was not until later that the mathematical-
formal tools needed to construct computational theories of the operations
of the language faculty were invented, and also not until later that miscon-
ceptions about language and mind that include empiricist ones – but also at
least one that Descartes himself introduced – were overcome. A central
argument of the Discourse (part V) was instrumental in introducing
Descartes’s misconception of study of the mind. Since – besides nativism
and some hints of a computational approach mentioned later – this argu-
ment was also Descartes’s one positive contribution to the study of language
(and mind) and because it helps emphasize why Descartes and other ration-
alists take an internalist approach to mind so seriously, I look at it in some
36 J A M E S M C G I LV R A Y
detail. The argument turns on some observations of how ordinary people
routinely use language. These observations constitute what Chomsky calls
“the creative aspect of language use.”
The observations are found near the end of the fifth part of Descartes’s
Discourse. Earlier in that part, he touted what he thought to be the descrip-
tive and explanatory advantages of his contact mechanics. Reading what
he had to say, it is obvious he believed that this mechanics applied to
everything in the “material” world. The creativity observations at the end
offer his grounds for not including the mind (“reason”) in the scope of his
“mechanical philosophy.” In compressed form they are as follows: neither
machine nor non-human animal, he held, “could [ever] use words, or put
together other signs, as we do in order to express our thoughts to
others. . . . [For] it is not conceivable that such a machine [or animal] should
produce different arrangements of words so as to give an appropriately
meaningful answer to whatever is said in its presence, as the dullest of men
can do.” These compressed observations are expanded upon in Cordemoy’s
more detailed study, but the relevant features of what Chomsky calls the
“creative aspect of language use” are found in the Cartesian text, so I focus
on that alone. Decompressing: language use is not tied to circumstance nor
caused – it is stimulus-free. It is also unbounded: respondents to questions
can and do produce “different arrangements of words” with no restrictions
on which, or on how many, or on their combinations. And yet even while
neither tied to circumstance nor limited in number of words and their
combinations, the responses produced by even “the dullest of men”
remain “appropriately meaningful” with regard to the (discourse) context
in question. In contrast, if they were caused “mechanically,” one could
expect fixed or random responses to questions, not just one of an
unbounded set of different but still appropriate responses. And while a
fixed response might under certain assumptions be appropriate to circum-
stance, that is as the observations indicate irrelevant, for again, it is any of
an indefinitely large number of different responses that can be appropri-
ate. In effect, the creative aspect of language use creates a puzzle that a
contact mechanics or for that matter any deterministic story about exter-
nal or internal causation cannot address. One could perhaps speak of what
a person produces in the way of an answer to a question as having been
“rationally caused.” But that is a cheat. While people “produce” the rele-
vant answers, this is not causation of a sort that is subject to any kind of
treatment as the result of an algorithm that links what is said to a specific
circumstance, contextually or discourse-fixed. You can get stimulus free-
dom by isolating the system that yields judgments – for present purposes,
the language faculty, which can be conceived of as modular. And you can
get novelty by introducing a randomizing mechanism in a device that
yields strings that we (reading them) interpret as expressions. But isolation
and randomness do not in any way yield appropriateness to discourse
circumstances of the form observed. Descartes’s conclusion from all this
The philosophical foundations of biolinguistics 37
depended on his (misguided) belief that his contact mechanics exhausted
the scope of naturalistic science. Since contact mechanics could not
explain appropriate language use, Descartes assigned the job of producing
the facts of appropriate use observed to an entity out of reach of his contact
mechanics. That entity was a non-physical mind. While not to be taken
seriously today or even 50 or so years after the Discourse appeared in 1637,8
his grounds for making this move were reasonable, given his assumptions
and the options available to him.
As suggested, Descartes’s observations had temporary and unproductive
and also continuing and salutary effects. Given that his “explanation” for
ordinary creative language use excluded a science he assumed to exhaust
naturalistic explanation, it is no surprise that Descartes resisted the idea
that one could offer a naturalistic theory of the mind, or of any of its
components. That commitment could no longer be supported some 50
years later. As Chomsky (1995a, 2000a) points out, Descartes’s account of
matter (“body”) and “the physical” went out the window when Newton
introduced the inverse square law of gravitation. When that happened,
contact mechanics became hopeless and theories of mechanics had to
depend on forces that are for Descartes “natural science” and for common
sense mysterious. After Newton’s law, “the physical” could no longer
mean “the material.” After Newton (although with considerable resistance
still) natural science (called “natural philosophy” at the time) took on a
different cast: the “natural” is whatever the best naturalistic theory says,
however mysterious nature might appear to be to commonsense intu-
itions about “body” and “the physical.”
The continuing salutary effect was to divorce the study of language in
particular from its use or application by people to the world, a move that
instituted and continues to support an internalist commitment to the
study of mind. Much later, and when joined to efforts to construct natural-
istic theories of mind, it likely played a role in suggesting that one pursue
modular approaches to not just language, but to other components of the
mind. Descartes himself seems in some of what he writes to have thought
the mind to be unitary, although that may be deceptive. Not only did he
allow for distinctions between perception, imagination, will, and “under-
standing,” and in addition acknowledge distinctions between the powers
of the senses, but his discussions of a unitary mind tended to appear in
contexts where he treats the mind taken as a whole as a unitary agent
thinking and acting, not as a subject for study. Further, in his discussion of
how the blind can sense depth, he came close to developing a computa-
tional theory of vision that attributes to this “faculty” unique forms of
computation – an important aspect of a plausible notion of modularity.
I do not pursue the matter further here.9
The important and salutary
consequence of Descartes’s observations was to divorce the study of what-
ever in the mind makes the use of language possible from the study of its
use or application to the world and other forms of “problem solving.”
38 J A M E S M C G I LV R A Y
By now, the view that the naturalistic study of the mind must focus on
mind-internal systems, and on modular forms of them at that, can also be
justified pragmatically. On the face of it, the only successful naturalistic
sciences of the mind thus far have a computational form and do in fact
focus on internal systems that operate in accord with their own “laws”
(principles, algorithms, rules) over unique “inputs” that yield system-
unique results. These systems are prima facie modular: uniqueness in
principles, inputs, and outputs suffices to make them so without (pace
Fodor) being encapsulated, or peripheral, or highly localized in the brain.
Marr’s theory of vision and various linguistic and biolinguistic computa-
tional theories of language are among these modular, internalist sciences.
The fact that so far success in constructing naturalistic sciences of mind
has these characteristics, and that attempts to offer anything like “gen-
eral” theories of mind never get beyond an initial stage, suggests that at the
least, anything that will count for us as a naturalistic theory of mind is
likely to have this form. It also seems to undermine the idea that anything
like a generalized learning procedure could suffice to yield a system that
naturalistic scientific methodology can deal with. And it suggests that the
mind must operate by relying on the “cooperation” of several systems that
operate in accord with very different computational procedures.
I emphasize that while unlike Descartes we now recognize that the mind
can be the topic of naturalistic research, the facts of the creative aspect of
language use remain unchallenged; see note 5. A plausible conclusion to
draw from their persistence is not just that empiricist assumptions and
efforts are unlikely to yield a science of language, and in addition that
language is both modular and inside the head, but also that language use is
not only now, but probably always will be out of reach of the methods and
mental strategies of naturalistic scientific research. This should not be a
surprise. The use of language is a form of human action, and like all human
action, it resists naturalistic scientific study. No doubt by using the re-
sources of folk psychology we can make reasonably good judgments con-
cerning people’s intentions and offer reasonably reliable guesses about
what they will do. But we do not do that by employing the tools of natural
science. Descartes, Cudworth, the romantics, von Humboldt, and
Chomsky recognize that. You can put a label on the problem that seems
to explain why there is a barrier: “free will.” And you can say what it
involves: the exercise of a “rational cause.” You can even in the case of
language point to some of the factors that make it possible: a modular
faculty of language that can yield indefinitely many ways of understanding
and proceeding. But you do not get to have a natural science of the
phenomenon.
It is an open question whether this barrier to natural science is to be
explained metaphysically by appeal to the nature of “free will,” whatever
that might be, or rather explained by appeal to biologically based facts
about the natures of our minds and the kinds of ways of understanding the
The philosophical foundations of biolinguistics 39
world and ourselves that it makes available. The latter is the more inter-
esting, or at least the much more readily addressed way to approach the
matter. It is more readily addressed first because – despite Descartes’s
misguided belief that reason (presumably in the form of science) provides
us a universal problem-solver – it is prima facie plausible that our minds
have limitations. Not just the problem of free will but other apparently
well-understood and not merely confused or specious issues escape our
grasps. These limitations appear to be built into our species: individual
minds may differ in talents, but some barriers appear to be insurmount-
able, no matter how talented or gifted a scientist. So it is surely likely that
these limitations are built into our biological natures. Those natures pro-
vide us a flexible and readily available common sense that, however, solves
no scientific problems. And they provide us with a fruitful but apparently
limited scientific methodology that can deal with causal systems or with
randomness, but not with “free will.” It can be no accident that we are the
only organisms to have not just language, which allows us to put innate
commonsense concepts together in various ways, but the capacity to “do
science” too. If the limits are biological, they can in principle be inves-
tigated. That is the second reason it is easier to address the issue of the
limitations of the human mind by adopting an internalist approach and
looking for facts about our cognitive systems that impose the limitations.
4.4 The biolinguistic research program
Finally, let us turn to the biolinguistic research program. So far, we have
looked at the philosophical underpinnings of naturalistic scientific meth-
odology and those of naturalistic methodology applied to the mind, where
natural science appears to yield scientifically respectable results when
dealing with a mental system that is inside the head, is innate, and is
modular, or at least is – and likely must be – treated as modular in the
sense specified above. Now we look at the philosophical foundations for
employing the tools of the science of biology in the study of language and
other internal, modular, innate systems.
Surprisingly, given that there was nothing like a science of biology
during his time, Descartes has a role to play even here. He suggests that
for a mental entity or system to be innate is for it to result on being offered
appropriate input in the growth or development of the mental entity or
system. Specifically, in his 1648 Comments on a Certain Broadsheet in speak-
ing of errors that an interpreter of his called Regius had made in under-
standing his work, Descartes explains what he has in mind by an innate
idea. He says: “This is the same sense as that in which we say that gener-
osity is ‘innate’ in certain families, or that certain diseases such as gout or
stones are innate in others: it is not so much that the babies of such
families suffer from these diseases in their mother’s womb, but simply
40 J A M E S M C G I LV R A Y
that they are born with a certain ‘faculty’ or tendency to contract them.”
This explanation clearly calls for some sort of mechanism by which a
condition is transmissible from members of a family to another member.
He did not have anything like modern biology in mind, of course, but it is
difficult to understand the mechanism he envisaged unless it is seen in a
way that invites what we would call genetic and epigenetic transmission of
a characteristic that on being appropriately stimulated or “triggered,” by
either distal or proximal means, develops in a way “anticipated,”10
in the
relevant developmental machinery. Moreover, an at least similar under-
standing of innateness of a mental “entity,” one that calls for a mechanism
linked to inheritance, appears to be called for by Cudworth when in his
extensive and still relevant discussion of “innate ideas” in his Treatise
Concerning Eternal and Immutable Morality, begun in 1662 but not published
until 1731, well after his death in 1688, he spoke of an “innate cognoscitive
power” that on an “occasion” presented with some input to the system or
“power,” automatically and immediately yields an “idea” relevant to the
understanding of the occasioning (we would say triggering) occasion. This
“power” is one that all creatures share to an extent, although human
beings have a special form of it that is available to no other creatures.
We, unlike other creatures, quickly and automatically develop ideas like
MECHANISM, WATCH, TRIANGLE, and HOUSE. No doubt he (and
Descartes too) attributed this cognoscitive power to God, not biology;
that was to be expected at the time. But even assuming that this explan-
ation were taken seriously, occasionalists aside, most assumed that God
would not him-, it-, or herself bother to do the deed each time a person
needed a new “idea” of some relevant sort, but would have built into
human minds in some way a mechanism to provide the relevant ones
when needed, thereafter to be stored in memory. Innate ideas in this
sense (DOG, RIVER, WATER, etc.) are not as popular these days as innate
general principles, such as Merge in its several forms. It is not clear why,
however. Many of our “ideas” or concepts – those that constitute the
conceptual range of commonsense understanding – appear to develop as
automatically and at least as quickly as the combinatory principle Merge.
The pre-verbal child already has available a rich and rather diverse set of
concepts (Hirsh-Pasek and Golinkoff 1996; Woodward 2008), and generally
speaking, the child’s ready acquisition of “ideas” as revealed in their swift
and appropriate application offers thousands of examples of poverty of the
stimulus observations. The issue should not be whether many of our
“ideas” are innate; given the observations, we should assume that they
are, unless shown otherwise. The issue is what these ideas or concepts are,
what the mechanism(s) that yields them is, how they come to be associated
with linguistic “sounds” (for which there must also be an acquisition
mechanism), and how they are “represented” in the mind–brain. They
do, after all, represent “information” that when employed through the
use of language is applied by ordinary speakers in all sorts of appropriate
The philosophical foundations of biolinguistics 41
ways. They constitute an important part of the knowledge of language that
a person with an I-language has available.
In the same essay in which Descartes appealed to some kind of innate
“mechanism” to make sense of how ideas develop, he also introduced a
tripartite distinction between what he called “innate” ideas (those
“thoughts within me which neither came to me from external objects
nor were determined by my will, but which came solely from the power
of thinking within me”), “adventitious” ideas, and those that are “made
up.” In a letter to Mersenne in June of 1641 he gives examples of each. The
innate include GOD, MIND, BODY, and TRIANGLE. The one adventitious
idea he mentions is “the idea we commonly have of the sun.” And for a
made up or constructed idea, he suggests “the idea which the astronomers
construct of the sun by their reasoning” (all examples at Descartes 1991:
183). The distinction between the “made up” ideas and the other two is
clear: it is the distinction between scientific concepts that are introduced
by scientists through “reasonings,” presumably systematic – that is,
through constructing theories that among other things place the sun and
not the earth at the center of the solar system and, more recently, attribute
the radiation the sun produces to fusion reactions. These do not figure in
the adventitious everyday idea of the sun, which we can take to be the one
that is triggered during development. Adventitious ideas include virtually
all of our commonsense concepts. The puzzle is why Descartes introduced
the distinction he does between innate and adventitious ideas. In the essay
denouncing Regius’s misunderstandings again, and immediately after he
introduces his tripartite distinction (Descartes 1984–5, Vol. I: 304),
Descartes places all “common notions” (thus, the “idea we commonly
have of the sun” as a body that moves around the earth, etc.) inside the
mind, and thus places them among the innate ideas, albeit needing trig-
gering or what Descartes calls an “occasion to form these ideas by means of
the faculty innate to it.” Compounding the puzzle, it is difficult to under-
stand why ideas such as GOD and MIND do not need triggering. A cynical
interpretation is that these “ideas” just happen to be central to Descartes’s
philosophical work, so he gives them a special status. Or perhaps he
thought that these ideas were so “clear and distinct” that they could not
possibly have required experience or “input” of any sort. Fortunately, I do
not need to pursue the issue. For our purposes, the “occasioned” ideas are
innate, and they are distinct from those introduced in the sciences. We
find, then, a clear connection in a founder of the rationalist tradition
between the innateness of (commonsense) ideas and their exclusion
from the concepts or ideas developed in the sciences.
What about the notion of a Euclidean triangle, though, should it not be in
the toolbox of the scientist? Plausibly, the idea of a Euclidean triangle is not
only in science’s toolbox, but is a distinctively scientific concept, for to
emphasize “Euclidean” presupposes a distinction between Euclidean trian-
gles and non-Euclidean forms that require different notions of parallels.
42 J A M E S M C G I LV R A Y
That there are distinct forms of triangle (Euclidean, hyperbolic, and elliptic)
does not come automatically. Nor, perhaps, does even the idea that the sum
of the internal angles of a triangle must equal 180 degrees. Alternatively, of
course, one could argue that it is in fact innate, but that does not prevent its
use as a tool in constructing a science, and it is the object of a science only if
one attempts a science of human concepts and how they develop.
Later work too assumed some kind of “mechanism” built into humans at
birth that yield “common ideas” and even the structure of specific mental
systems and the overall organization of the mind. That theme is found
throughout the seventeenth century in the Cambridge Platonists. I have
already mentioned Cudworth. Another was Herbert of Cherbury. Herbert
in 1624 anticipated contemporary work on an innate moral faculty that is
now being done by John Mikhail (2010) and others. Herbert insisted that
innate “common notions” must underlie our capacity to make moral judg-
ments, shaping them and preventing “vacant forms, prodigies, and fearful
images” from dominating. As for language, and now extending into the
eighteenth century, Chomsky in Cartesian Linguistics (Chomsky 1966/2002/
2009) emphasizes the Port-Royal Grammarians’ work on the internal rule-
based organization of language and thought. While they were influenced
not only by Descartes but by others – Sanctius among them – they
remained well within the Cartesian rationalist tradition by virtue of an
effort to construct a “Philosophical” (scientific and universal) grammar
with its “immutable and general principles” (Beauzée quoted at Chomsky
1966/2002/2009: 93 [page references are to the 2009 edition]) that clearly
called for these principles to be innate in some kind of device. This kind of
grammar could go beyond the descriptive to offer “explanation,” provid-
ing what D’Alembert (94) called the “true metaphysics of grammar.” That
can be understood, using contemporary terminology, as an effort to offer a
science of a part of the human mind – moving from “natural history” to
“natural philosophy” or what we think of as natural science (97) of the
mind. Their success is another matter, but for the time with its limited
scientific resources, and against background assumptions about the rela-
tion of thought and language plus lingering medieval views about the
nature of reason that were bound to mislead, their accomplishments
were remarkable. Little progress could be made unless confusions and
misunderstandings such as those found also in Descartes’s work were
removed and, as mentioned above, only with the introduction of formal
methods such as recursive functions and their application – along with the
rest of the machinery of naturalistic scientific research – in an effort to
construct an explicit formal theory of universal grammar that met descrip-
tive and explanatory demands. Von Humboldt, for example, while he
offered some extremely suggestive and interesting observations, never
managed to construct a theory of the “internal mechanism” (or mecha-
nisms) that must provide the resources of sound, meaning, and combina-
tory operations on which language relies. Thus, it was not until Chomsky
The philosophical foundations of biolinguistics 43
and others working within the assumptions of naturalistic method and
rationalist strategy for the study of mind that a naturalistic theory of
language could begin to emerge. And as found later, attempting to address
and satisfy the full range of naturalistic methodology desiderata could
only really begin once the issue of acquisition could be seen as sufficiently
well addressed. That began with the introduction of the principles and
parameters model. Only with it and other considerations in place, and
with the naturalistic scientist’s effort to simplify cashed out in a “minimal-
ist” program that was also now capable of addressing “third factor” con-
tributions to evolution and ontogenesis, could accommodation to biology
begin to be taken seriously. The linguist could now attend to matters such
as finding a clear and explicit account of the function of the language
organ (rather, of its core: meeting bare output conditions) and addressing
the “design” issue of how well the actual system carried out this function
(the matter of perfection). Liaisons with developments in biology, found
especially in what is called “evo-devo,” could now be explored, genetic
coding matters could now be put on the table, and so on. After principles
and parameters, and with the aid of minimalism and recognition of third
factor considerations, the specific lines of research that linguists pursued
could begin to yield theories that more nearly satisfied the full range of
desiderata and thereby make more progress than was possible before.
It is not particularly surprising that linguists began to recognize the
importance of “third factor” considerations – constraints on growth and
development that go beyond experience and genetic coding, and recogni-
tion that evolution involves contributions from physical, chemical, and
other structuring sources – only recently. It might now seem an obvious
point: surely, for example, there cannot be enough information in the
genome to determine the growth pattern of every nerve cell’s axons, nor
ensure that each connects in the “right” way to ensure signal transmission
efficiency (cf. Cherniak 2005, Cherniak et al. 2004). But while it is now a
common theme of evo-devo research, it took a while to sink in even among
biologists, and it sank in only rather slowly. In the twentieth century, some
of the credit should go to mathematical biologist D’Arcy Thompson (1917/
1942/1992) and philosopher-polymath Alan Turing (1992) in their insist-
ence that not just growth, but evolution is constrained by factors other
than what Turing disparagingly called “history” – by, among other things,
constraints imposed by physical and chemical law, including general con-
straints on the possible forms that natural objects and events can take.
Credit also goes to the work of Waddington in the 1940s on growth. For a
summary of more recent developments, see Carroll (2005b). Some back-
ground is available in Gould’s monumental 2002 book.
As for earlier origins: arguably, Johann von Goethe first broached the
core ideas in his pursuit of the “Urpflanze,” the formula that he thought
could predict all possible shapes of annual flowers. In a letter to Herder in
1787, he told of what he declared to be a marvelous invention of his, an
44 J A M E S M C G I LV R A Y
Urform or basic formula with which he believed he could predict the
shapes or morphologies not just of existing annual flowers, but of all
naturally possible such flowers (Chomsky 1966/2002/2009: 72). A plausible
analogy to what Goethe had in mind is found in using the Fibonacci series
to predict the shapes of sunflower seeds in the flower. Goethe also seems to
have assumed that his basic approach could yield a means by which the
morphologies of all naturally possible plants could be predicted. It is
possible that his contribution led to some of the “formal” work done on
biology in Europe; for discussion, see Gould (2002: 271f.).
It is worth keeping in mind that when third factor considerations are
coordinated with Darwinian and neo-Darwinian views of natural selec-
tion, we find a rather different view of evolution. No doubt only some
mathematically and formally possible organisms and shapes have “sur-
vival value,” so only some will be found among extant species, now and
before.11
But that might be Darwinian selection’s only role in structure-
building. Its contribution in a specific case could reduce to “selecting” the
shapes or forms that can in a specific kind of environment or environ-
ments persist. At the least, Darwinian selection with or without genomic
supplementation by no means fully explains the “shapes” of organic
entities or – as in the case of language – the organs within organisms,
including their possible variants. And as for differences between lan-
guages: as suggested before, physically (and computationally, etc.) possible
non-genomic considerations might fully explain variation in languages,
effectively constituting the parametric options of the principles and
parameters approach (cf. Chomsky and McGilvray 2012).
With that, I conclude discussion of philosophical precedents and foun-
dations for biolinguistics. I know of no philosophical antecedents for the
now-plausible assumption that language – or at least, what is needed for
the computational mapping from “atomic” concepts to SEMs within
phases – developed as the result of a single transmissible mutation that
turned out to be useful, for it provided humans the capacity to think
complex, structured thoughts, even if they were not conscious of them
before linking to sounds or signs came to be the case. Nevertheless, there
were – as indicated – some precedents for looking to biology to make sense
of how language and the concepts it expresses (and sounds it employs)
could be seen to be not just inside the head, but innate. And the minimalist
version of biolinguistics can be traced to the natural scientist’s demand for
simplicity.
4.5 Conclusion
I have tried to outline scientific methods and research strategies for the
study of mind that have yielded successful naturalistic scientific programs
in the last few centuries, and indicated their philosophical origins and
The philosophical foundations of biolinguistics 45
underpinnings. Given this, and given that the biolinguistics program
launched in recent years as the result of work by Chomsky and others
appears to conform to the successful methods and strategies for the natu-
ralistic scientific study of mind, it is plausible, I think, to expect that this
program is on the right course to continue to develop successful sciences
of language in the human mind.
On the whole, it is unlikely, I think, that there will be major changes in
naturalistic scientific methodology, and I suspect that a nativist and inter-
nalist strategy for the study of mind will continue to yield good naturalistic
theories of components of the mind. I am reasonably confident about
these predictions because I suspect that the method and strategy outlined
have the characters that they do because their characters reflect facts
about the way in which the human mind works – and fails to work. As
for the biolinguistic research program, it is already obvious that the term is
a bit of a misnomer. Perhaps a better, although very awkward one might be
“bio-chemico-physico-compulinguistics.” Because of the need to reach into
and accommodate to several non-biological areas, it is, I think, likely to
undergo several changes and to explore unanticipated directions for
research. But it should remain a viable program; it has a good provenance.
And certainly at the moment it has exciting prospects.
46 J A M E S M C G I LV R A Y
Part I
Language
development
5
(Evidence for) the
language instinct
Ianthi Maria Tsimpli
5.1 Introduction
One of the most influential aspects of modern formal linguistic theory is
the shift of focus from language as a product of social or behavioral habits
to language as a mental state of the human individual. The implications of
this shift have extended to all areas of linguistic research including those
that are interdisciplinary by name and nature (sociolinguistics, psycholin-
guistics, and pragmatics) but also those concerned with levels of linguistic
analysis, from phonology to semantics. In essence, formal linguistics is
viewed as a discipline concerned with human cognition and brain struc-
tures. In this respect, syntax and semantics aim to account for mental
representations in the same way that psycholinguistics dealing with lin-
guistic behavior in typical and atypical circumstances aims to describe
mental representations which underlie and dictate this behavior.
This shift in linguistics from epiphenomena and external factors to
mental architecture and properties of human cognition coincided with a
similar shift in many other areas of scientific research which attempt to
account for knowledge, abilities, and developmental deficits, primarily of
a non-linguistic nature (Novick et al. 2005, 2010; Dibbets et al. 2006). This
more general shift of perspective is related to and probably accounted for
by rapid developments in brain and cognitive sciences as well as in gene-
tics (e.g. Sakai et al. 2002; Kinno et al. 2008; Lai et al. 2003).
The investigation of language as a mental construct does not exhaust the
fundamentals of Chomskyan linguistics, however. It is the special status of
Language in human cognition as an innate, autonomous, domain-specific,
and, partly, modular system that justifies the revolutionary flavor of the
shift of focus described above (Chomsky 1986b; Fodor 1983; cf. Karmiloff-
Smith 1992). The stronger the claim for innateness the more controversial
and falsifiable it becomes; at the same time, the stronger this claim is the
more appropriate it becomes to speak of a language instinct (Pinker 1994).
5.2 Instincts and language
Instincts characterize a species as a whole: they presuppose biologically
determined predispositions in the form of genetic programming and
they trigger implicit and inevitable development which does not involve
any “learning” process. We speak of the instinct for survival, reproduc-
tion, etc., all of which are based on facts of species evolution as well as on
research on brain properties related to hormonal changes in maturation,
aging, and pathologies. Instincts underlie biologically triggered develop-
ment and determine shared aspects of species behavior (Birney and
Teevan 1961). In humans, instinctive behavior may not be directly recog-
nized as such given that the power of higher cognition in the form of
conscious or subconscious thinking may mask the instincts’ workings.
In this respect, instinctive behavior may be quite complex which is one of
the reasons why the notion of an “instinct” in psychology seems insuffi-
ciently constrained to be genetically identified. Similar objections to
the lack of precision in defining instincts are made in connection to the
usual, and occasionally sloppy, links between instincts, innateness, and
genetics. Finally, instincts have been compared and confused with habits
although the role of experience may not be causally involved in either
(Darwin 1859). In the case of language, experience is indispensable. In
fact, it is the crucial role of experience in language development that has
been put forward as the major counterargument to language being an
instinct (cf. Tomasello 1995).
Instincts should, by definition, be part of the genetic code of the species.
Accordingly, the idea of a language instinct invites discussions on the role
of genetics, such as the relatively recent debate about the “gene for
language.” Discussions on the FOXP2 gene in the work of Enard et al.
(2002) and Lai et al. (2003) initially associated this gene with speech.
It was later suggested that the FOXP2 is also relevant to language and
communication. The empirical support came from the extensive study
of three generations in a family known as the KE family, in which half
of the family members suffered from speech and language disorders while
the remaining individuals were unaffected by the deficit (Gopnik 1990a).
The deficit was characterized as being language specific and the affected
members as individuals with Specific Language Impairment (SLI), an
inherited disorder. Lai et al. (2001) linked this deficient behavior with a
part of the non-sexual chromosome of the FOXP2 gene, giving rise to
interpretations of this finding as the discovery of the gene for language
(and for syntax, in particular).
However, further research led to the abandonment of the idea that
FOXP2 or any other gene could be the “gene for language” (Vargha-
Khadem et al. 1995; Marcus and Fisher 2003). It was established that the
language problems in the affected members of the KE family were not
50 I A N T H I M A R I A T S I M P L I
exclusively with syntax and grammar: mouth and face dyspraxia (leading
to articulation problems) as well as other aspects of language were
affected. Furthermore, the role of FOXP2 as a transcription factor is to
regulate the amount of a particular protein produced. This has cascade
effects on other proteins in its pathway making it impossible to isolate the
FOXP2 as the gene for language, although, according to Newbury and
Monaco (2002), “it is feasible that another gene within the FOXP2 pathway
will be involved in the SLI phenotype.” As a result, the question of whether
there could be “a gene for language,” let alone whether it has been iden-
tified, has been dismissed as simplistic (Smith 2005). Nevertheless, the link
between genetics and language is still sought and considered highly rele-
vant to current research. What needs to be established is a set of plausible
alternatives for the genetic coding of language based on what biology and
genetics can offer. We consider some of these alternatives, suggested in
Moro (2008), below.
Can instincts be selectively impaired? Language, arguably, can, as in
cases of developmental language disorders (Leonard 1998; Clahsen 1989;
Kail 1994, Miller et al. 2001) but also in acquired disorders such as agram-
matism (Friedmann and Grodzinsky 1997; Grodzinsky 1995). The question
remains however as to whether in these pathologies individuals have no
language instinct to start with, or lose it as an acquired effect. In other
words, the link between language pathology and language instinct could
be established if linguistic representations in pathology altogether lack
whatever neurological structure genetically defined underlies the lan-
guage instinct. If the answer to this is negative, then the alternative
possibility suggests that only certain aspects of language can be impaired,
sometimes massively. With respect to agrammatism, the answer is easier
to provide: since partial or full recovery is possible, the language instinct
should be in place irrespective of impairment. If we consider instincts
other than language, it is difficult to show that any developmental disor-
der, even of the most severe type, can be reduced to a selective, genetically
encoded disorder thereof. In other words, when the genetic code is so
atypical that basic properties of the species – defined as instincts – cannot
be identified, the affected member (embryo or newborn) may not be viable
anyway (cf. Moro 2008).
The possibility of selective impairment is one of the criteria proposed for
those cognitive systems which are not only domain-specific but modular
as well (Fodor 1983). The fact that aspects of language can be selectively
impaired in inherited, developmental disorders implies that linguistic
properties are indeed biologically, hence genetically, encoded. As argued
above, though, the dedicated status of one or more genes to language
properties has not been substantiated; if anything, the opposite holds, in
that the genes related to language problems do not exclusively code speech
or language. The criticism in fact extends to the innateness of linguistic
modularity although this notion primarily refers to cognitive rather than
(Evidence for) the language instinct 51
neurological descriptions, neuropsychology attempting to bridge the gap
(cf. Karmiloff-Smith 1992).
The selectively intact status of language in individuals with impaired
non-verbal cognition presents the opposite side of the coin. A small
number of case studies have been reported in the literature (Yamada
1990; Smith and Tsimpli 1995; Smith et al. 2011) showing that disorders
affecting a whole spectrum of cognitive abilities may leave language
unaffected. Looking more closely into the case of Christopher, for exam-
ple, allows us to illustrate the point. Christopher is an individual who has
been institutionalized all his adult life because he is unable to look after
himself. On standardized measures of non-verbal cognition he scores
between 40 and 70 while his verbal abilities are within the upper range
of the scale (O’Connor and Hermelin 1994; Smith and Tsimpli 1995 and
references therein). Furthermore, Christopher is an atypical autist, show-
ing an inconsistent pattern of performance on standard “false-belief”
tasks while, at the same time, he consistently fails to interpret non-
literal language in expressions of metaphor, irony, humor, and rhetorical
questions. Christopher’s profile becomes unique when one turns to
language. Apart from English, his native language, Christopher speaks
and/or understands twenty other languages to different degrees. His
language learning abilities exhibit an extremely fast and accurate pattern
mostly for languages which have a written form, although his ability
to learn signed languages lacking written feedback, although overall
weaker, still reveals a special talent for language compared to non-verbal
abilities (Smith et al. 2011).
Nevertheless, a valid criticism of the asymmetrical pattern attested
between cognition and language can be made at least for Christopher’s
case: an in-depth investigation of his linguistic abilities reveals asymme-
tries within his native language: while morphology and vocabulary are
intact, syntactic abilities show a diverse pattern. Specifically, although
subordination, in the form of relative and adverbial clauses, interrogatives
and parasitic gaps, is clearly part of Christopher’s grammar, topicalization
and left-dislocation are not. Other aspects of language performance are
also affected; Christopher’s translations into English (from a variety of
languages) occasionally fail to meet the criteria of coherence and prag-
matic plausibility. Similarly, recovery from locally ambiguous structures
exhibiting garden-path effects is very hard for Christopher while interpret-
ing non-literal language is distressing.
This picture reveals that, within Christopher’s native language, certain
areas are impaired while others are spared. In fact, if we draw a compar-
ison between Christopher and the SLI individuals mentioned above, the
loci of the contrast are in the domain of morphology and language-specific
rules of syntax. What about discourse-conditioned structures in SLI indi-
viduals, which seem to be impaired in Christopher? Performance varies
(Bishop and Adams 1992; van der Lely 1997) and the problems in morpho-
52 I A N T H I M A R I A T S I M P L I
syntax are bound to confound the results. What we are left with, then, is
some demarcation of internal boundaries in the spectrum of language
abilities distinguishing between more and less discourse-sensitive lan-
guage use. In other words, the attested contrast lies in the spared or
impaired status of formal aspects of language, narrowing them down to
Syntax and excluding other aspects of linguistic performance which may
be affected or unaffected for independent reasons, e.g. at the interface of
language and discourse (i.e. when communication disorders are also at
stake, as is the case with Christopher’s atypical autistic profile). However,
even having narrowed down the relevant domain of language which
shows selective impairment or development, to Syntax, we are still far
from being specific enough in identifying the purported distinctive feature
of language that is the best candidate for expressing the language instinct.
Syntax, the derivational or computational component of language
(Chomsky 1995b, 2000b), is characterized by a single operation, Merge,
responsible for structure-building, otherwise known as recursion.
Recursion is an intrinsic, not learnable, fundamental property of
human language which is blind to semantic categorization or communi-
cative constraints. Recursion operates on syntactic objects which can be
categories, words, or features. As such, it constitutes a defining property
of any natural language in the sense that no variation across languages is
expected to be found with respect to the availability of recursion. As soon
as linguistic representations are formed in the child’s cognition, recur-
sion determines the nature of the representation. Moreover, recursion is
assumed to be the invariable but also unique option available to natural
languages. Accordingly, recursion satisfies the definition of instinctive
behavior – shared by every member of the species – and, in this respect,
could be a good candidate for the language instinct.
Two problems arise with this suggestion: first, it has not been convinc-
ingly shown that there are pathological grammars, as in Specific Language
Impairment, which can be so fundamentally impaired that they lack
recursion or constraints associated with it, such as locality (cf. van der
Lely 1996; Rice 2000). Although SLI may be characterized by problems with
processing object relative clauses, object clefts, or passive formation (van
der Lely and Harris 1990; van der Lely 1996), the selective pattern of
impairment points to difficulties in establishing the dependencies formed
but not to the implementation of processing strategies beyond natural
language options, such as linearly based dependencies.
Furthermore, and more importantly, the property of recursion has
been shown to characterize other cognitive abilities, such as music, arith-
metic, theory of mind, and visuo-spatial processing (Hauser et al. 2002).
Accordingly, recursion is neither modular nor domain-specific. Along sim-
ilar lines, Tettamanti et al. (2009) provide evidence from fMRI studies on
healthy adults processing structural dependencies formed between visuo-
spatial symbols. The structures were designed to bear similarities with
(Evidence for) the language instinct 53
dependencies formed in natural language. On the assumption that all
syntactic structures in any natural language involve non-rigid, i.e. not
linearly fixed, distances between words involved in any dependency,
Tettamanti et al. (2009) designed such dependencies using visuo-spatial
symbols rather than words. Their findings show that Broca’s area is cru-
cially involved in the processing and the acquisition of both visuo-spatial
and linguistic structures, thus arguing that the nature of the task, i.e.
sequential processing, rather than domain-specificity, can account for
the brain region involved in input processing and acquisition. The more
general argument in this research is that non-rigid structural depend-
encies characterize human cognition in a unique way, distinguishing
human from non-human primates. On these grounds, and consistent
with Chomsky’s hierarchically structured symbolic sequencing consti-
tutes a good candidate for the defining property of human cognition,
thus, also, of a specifically human instinct; but not of a language
instinct as such.
To summarize the discussion so far, human language fulfills some of the
properties attributed to instincts, such as the inevitable, implicit, and
universal status it enjoys in the species. The quest for a dedicated gene
for language, however, has not been fruitful and may eventually prove to
be futile. In relation to this question, Moro (2008) presents a number of
alternative reasons for why there is no “Mendelian” linguistics as yet. The
first has to do with the possibility that genes which contribute to the
cortical structures crucial for language are also involved in the building
of other vital organs, the implication being that any malformation will
lead to the non-viability of the affected member. The second possibility
Moro considers is that language is a necessary by-product of other, selected
features, which have nothing to do with language (borrowing the term
“spandrel” from Gould 1997). The third possibility is even more radical:
language is perceived by humans as a real object, although it does not
really exist as such. By language, Moro refers to the rule-governed status of
grammar which we perceive as having an independent existence,
although this may be just a Gestalt phenomenon.
In summary, the claim for a language instinct cannot as yet be substan-
tiated by genetics in the form of having isolated genes specialized for
language. Furthermore, it appears that what constitutes the quintessential
property of language in the formal sense, namely recursion, is not a
defining characteristic of language alone, but of other aspects of human
cognition too.
Nevertheless, the search for the genetic basis for language is still actively
open. There is sufficient evidence from various scientific fields which
sustains the metaphor Chomsky proposed for language being an “organ”
(and Darwin’s (1859) view that language is an instinct): (a) language is
localized in the human brain, (b) language “grows” in the human mind
through a deterministic and implicit process of acquisition, (c) the nature
54 I A N T H I M A R I A T S I M P L I
of experience required for language development is sufficient for language
“growth” but not for language “learning,” in the sense of building knowl-
edge through a general-purpose learning mechanism. Thus, there are at
least three domains of inquiry which provide indirect evidence for a
language instinct: research on the neural correlates for language, on
language acquisition, and on language learnability in the face of under-
determined input. In the following sections we will consider some of the
relevant evidence from these domains.
5.3 The locus of syntax in the brain
In recent years, the use of functional neuro-imaging in brain studies has
included the study of language knowledge and language processing as
well. Although there is a considerable body of functional imaging research
looking into lexical retrieval and processing (Damasio et al. 1996;
Blumstein 2011), phonology (Heim and Friederici 2003), prosody as well
as semantic memory and retrieval (Martin and Chao 2001, for a review), we
will concentrate on studies investigating brain regions activated in syntac-
tic representations and processing. The reason for this rather restricted
choice has hopefully become apparent from the discussion in the previous
section: in our search of evidence for the language (or, more generally, the
human) instinct, we concentrate on the basis of linguistic computation,
namely recursion.
The processing of syntactic dependencies either in structures which
include movement of an element (displacement) as in interrogatives,
relatives or passives, or in binding dependencies where antecedent–
anaphor dependencies are established, have been investigated. Syntactic
theory considers displacement structures, also referred to as “filler–gap”
dependencies, as distinct from binding relations where no real “gap” is
included. Moreover, differences between passives on one hand and inter-
rogatives on the other are also postulated on the grounds that passives rely
more heavily on lexical relations expressed in terms of argument structure
alternations.
Behavioral data on the processing of filler–gap dependencies such as
interrogatives have repeatedly shown that such dependencies are psy-
chologically real in terms of their online computation (Nicol and
Swinney 1989; Traxler and Pickering 1996). The processing of passives
in adult monolinguals has also shown online effects differentiating them
from active sentences (Ferreira 2003; Rohde and Gibson 2003). Crucially,
the online differences extend to other populations such as child vs. adult
and monolingual vs. L2 learners. Thus, L1 children and L2 adult learners
have been shown to differ from monolingual adults in the processing
of interrogatives or passives. The differences revealed are both quanti-
tative in terms of processing speed but also qualitative in decision
(Evidence for) the language instinct 55
making for grammaticality preferences or judgments (Marinis et al. 2005;
Marinis 2007; Felser et al. 2003; Felser and Roberts 2007; Stromswold et al.
1996). Online processing data from agrammatism examining the proce-
ssing of structural dependencies of both the filler–gap and the binding
type have also been used to establish the locus of the deficit in impaired
language processing (Friedmann et al. 2006; Thompson and Shapiro 2005;
Dickey, Choy, and Thompson 2007; Choy and Thompson 2010; Dickey
and Thompson 2009). Interestingly, eye-tracking studies by Dickey et al.
(2007) and Dickey and Thompson (2009) point to a real-time filler–gap
strategy for both impaired and unimpaired adults in the comprehension
of object displacement in wh-movement structures but not in the case of
passives.
Language processing data from functional neuro-imaging in healthy
adults converge on the finding that Broca’s area is crucially involved in
the processing of syntactic dependencies (Moro et al. 2001; Musso et al.
2003, Grodzinsky and Friederici 2006; Santi and Grodzinski 2007b). In
addition, as shown by Santi and Grodzinsky’s (2007b) study, structural
dependencies formed by displacement/movement activate a different
part of the Broca area (BA44) from binding dependencies (BA45/47). The
two types of dependencies differ further in that binding also activates a
right-hemisphere region, the right middle frontal gyrus, while each type of
dependency activates different regions in Wernicke’s area. These findings
are important for two reasons; first, they point to a convergence between
formal linguistic theory and neurological structures in the human brain,
substantiating the shift in the focus of inquiry from language use to the
cognitive representation of linguistic knowledge. The second reason is
that they can compromise differences between theoretical constructs
mapped onto neurological structures of language “knowledge” and how
this may be affected as evidenced in lesion studies, and those neuro-
anatomical areas of the brain that implement this knowledge in real-
time language use (Grodzinsky and Friederici 2006). Syntactic processing
assumes three phases of computation: local phrase-structure building,
expressed by the Merge operation in minimalist terms, the computation
of syntactic dependencies involving displacement but also linearization
strategies, and finally the syntactic integration phase where, for example,
recovery from garden-path effects takes place (Friederici 2002; Friederici
et al. 2006b). The brain area activated in the third phase, i.e. during syntac-
tic integration, is the left posterior superior temporal gyrus while in the
first phase, local phrase-structure building, the left inferior frontal gyrus.
Overlap in the brain regions activated during language processing and
those identified in lesion studies strengthen the picture of dedicated
domains for language loci. On the other hand, divergent findings might
imply that more than one function (e.g. working memory as well as
structural dependencies) is neurally localized in the same region (Santi
and Grodzinsky 2007b).
56 I A N T H I M A R I A T S I M P L I
The dedicated status of particular brain regions for structural depend-
encies of movement/displacement is further supported by fMRI evidence
obtained from the processing of embedded wh-questions and topicaliza-
tions (Ben-Shachar et al. 2004). In both cases, a set of brain regions was
activated which was not involved in the processing of sentences without
movement dependencies, such as the dative shift alternation. There is thus
converging evidence supporting the existence of neural correlates for
processing filler-gap dependencies in language.
Independent, and convergent, evidence from neuro-imaging studies is
drawn from language learning paradigms. Tettamanti et al. (2002) inves-
tigated the neural correlates of (second) language acquisition in a group of
healthy adults whose task was to discover novel syntactic rules in a lan-
guage phonologically similar to their native language (Italian). The use of
pseudo-words allowed researchers to exclude lexical semantic effects and
concentrate on the process of syntactic acquisition. The experimental
conditions distinguished between the target rule being structure-
dependent or not, i.e. falling inside or outside natural language borders.
The results were robust and particularly encouraging for establishing
neural correlates of natural language acquisition of syntactic structures.
In particular, Broca’s area was selectively activated in the acquisition of
the structure-dependent rule only. Moreover, the comparison between
high- and low-proficiency learners revealed an increase in the activation
of the left perisylvian cortex, previously shown to be implicated in syntac-
tic processing. In Musso et al. (2003) adult native speakers of German were
exposed to Italian and Japanese in two experiments consisting of a series of
five learning sessions. One learning experiment involved samples of these
two languages which instantiated “real” grammar rules while the other
experiment included “unreal” rules for language, namely rules which
were based on linear rather than hierarchical relations. The behavioral
results obtained through grammaticality judgments and accuracy rates in
the learning curve showed that all subjects were able to learn both types of
rules. The reaction times measured throughout the learning sessions
showed a decrease for both natural and unnatural rules. However, the
reaction times in judgments were significantly faster for the “real” rules.
Turning to the functional imaging results the two experiments showed an
interesting neural discrepancy in that Broca’s region was activated only
during the acquisition of “real” rules while it was gradually disengaged
in the learning of the “unreal” Japanese or Italian rules. This finding is
consistent with Tettamanti et al. (2002) reported above. A significant
negative correlation between the blood oxygen-level dependent signal in
the left inferior frontal gyrus and the level of accuracy in the “unreal” rule
condition was attested while a positive correlation was found in the “real”
rule condition.
The findings of Tettamanti et al. (2002) and Musso et al. (2003) have
important implications for foreign language learning as well: the conditions
(Evidence for) the language instinct 57
in which learning took place in the experimental session clearly involved
the implicit or explicit discovery of rules of language(s). The brain region
activated in both learning conditions was in the right inferior frontal gyrus
which has been independently shown to be relevant to episodic memory
recognition and retrieval. The fact that this region was activated in both
conditions indicates that in explicit learning, any type of dependency (linear
or hierarchical) is monitored; however, acquisition of language competence
cannot rely on this type of monitoring. In all, the relevance of these experi-
ments to foreign language learning vs. first language acquisition implies
that hierarchical dependencies of the natural language type are automati-
cally and implicitly processed in Broca’s area.
It is important to point out that Musso et al.’s experiments which
revealed a selective engagement of Broca’s area in the “real” rule type, is
reminiscent of a language learning study, conducted offline, with the
polyglot-savant Christopher and a control group of first year linguistics
undergraduates (Smith and Tsimpli 1995). An artificial language, Epun,
was presented to the participants in a series of learning sessions, through
the written form primarily (since this was Christopher’s preferred modal-
ity for language input). Epun included rules involving hierarchical struc-
tures but also some “unreal,” linearly based rules. Although this was a
behavioral study, the results revealed that structure-independent opera-
tions were not mastered by Christopher but were mastered by the control
participants who presumably used general-purpose learning mechanisms
to deduce the rule on the basis of the controlled input presented. On the
grounds that Christopher has, independently assessed, deficits in central
cognition while, at the same time, his language system is intact insofar as
the formal component is concerned, the results obtained can be “trans-
lated” into the brain imaging results that Musso et al. (2003) report in
healthy adult foreign language learning.
The convergence of the results from behavioral and brain-imaging stud-
ies is particularly encouraging for identifying a plausible domain for the
language instinct, namely the implementation of discovery mechanisms
(in learning or acquisition) specific to language. Combining this with the
findings from lesion studies and from functional imaging data on language
processing by healthy adults, we can also conclude that natural language
sentences involving hierarchically based dependencies implicate a specific
brain region, namely Broca’s area. On the other hand, the findings
reviewed by Grodzinksy and Friederici (2006) and the study of Santi and
Grodzinsky (2007b) establish different brain regions activated for syntactic
processing depending on the nature of the dependency involved (move-
ment versus anaphoric dependencies) with working memory effects spe-
cific to filler–gap dependencies only. Local structure-building operations
(namely Merge), and integration processes of lexical and syntactic infor-
mation also activate partly different brain regions, a finding which appears
to reconcile, to some extent, theories of localization of syntactic
58 I A N T H I M A R I A T S I M P L I
knowledge in the brain with theories concerned with real-time language
processing. In all, neuropsychological findings appear to support the
exclusive role of Broca’s area in the representation, processing, and acquis-
ition of structural dependencies, particularly those which involve dis-
placement (a shared property of all natural languages).
Is this conclusion then sufficient to identify the language “organ” as the
main biological construct of the language instinct? The answer is, for the
moment, inconclusive. Having identified one or more brain regions which
are critically involved in language processes does not establish neuro-
anatomical separability of these regions. What can be established is that,
for some computational aspects of language, there is neural specificity in
Broca’s region, reflecting the cognitive notion of domain-specificity for
language. However, in the absence of cases of individuals with spared
cognition but language abilities radically impaired with respect to the
fundamental property of recursion (see Section 5.2 above), we can remain
sceptical about the claim for neural specificity of one or more brain
regions for language.
5.4 The instinct for syntactic categories
As discussed in Sections 5.2 and 5.3 above, recursion is not specific to
language alone. It characterizes other aspects of human cognition such
as music, arithmetic, and theory of mind (Hauser et al. 2002). For example,
the parallelism between language and music structures (Lerdahl and
Jackendoff 1983; Jackendoff 2009) involves their hierarchical and headed
nature – evincing the application of Merge – but extends to structural
recursion as well. In this respect, both local phrase-structure building
and higher-level computations as in structural dependencies are common
to music and language.
This parallelism is further analyzed on the grounds of similar processing
resources which have received supporting evidence from neuroimaging
studies (Maess et al. 2001; Patel et al. 1998; Levitin and Menon 2003).
Specifically, harmonic music processing has been shown to involve
Broca’s area and its right hemisphere homologue. On the other hand,
neuropsychological evidence reports many cases of acquired or develop-
mental impairment in music (amusia) not accompanied by language
impairment (Peretz et al. 1994; Ayotte et al. 2000). Similarly, the polyglot-
savant Christopher showing intact syntactic processing abilities in, overall,
impaired cognition shows no special abilities or disabilities in music
perception (Smith et al. 2011).
To accommodate the contradictory facts, Patel (2003) proposed the
Shared Syntactic Integration Resource Hypothesis (SSIRH) arguing for a
distinction between brain regions responsible for processing as opposed
to those responsible for knowledge representation. This distinction is
(Evidence for) the language instinct 59
reminiscent of the quest for overlapping regions in the brain map of
syntactic knowledge as compared to syntactic processing (Grodzinsky
and Friederici 2006), discussed in Section 5.3 above. The SSIRH suggests
that language and music processing share frontal brain regions respon-
sible for the computation of hierachically structured sound sequences
while the distinct representational systems for music and language
involve posterior brain regions (Patel 2003, 2008). The attempt is thus
to compromise the neuropsychological evidence that reveals dissocia-
tions between language and music in impairment with the brain imaging
evidence from processing regions by identifying differences at the repre-
sentational level.
A plausible candidate for representational differences is the building
blocks of the representation, i.e. the units which trigger the operation
Merge in each domain: tones in music and grammatical features,
morphemes and/or words in language (Pinker and Jackendoff 2005;
Jackendoff 2009). Abstracting away from morphological expressions of
linguistic units, one defining feature of natural languages is the nature of
the categories which participate in syntactic structures. Based on beha-
vioral data from acquisition and impairment, two general classes of
categories were proposed, the open-class (content, lexical) and the closed-
class (functional).
The distinction between lexical and functional categories was based on
a number of criteria such as semantic content and productivity, while
typical language acquisition data from a large number of languages usually
showed that the earliest utterances consist mostly of open-class items
(Gleitman and Wanner 1982). In the SLI literature it has been repeatedly
shown that functional categories are primarily affected both in terms of
omission and commission errors in production, and in terms of incom-
plete or deficient syntactic analysis in sentence comprehension tasks
(e.g. Schuele and Tolbert 2001; van der Lely and Harris 1990). These
descriptions are largely indisputable although the theoretical approaches
proposed to account for the attested linguistic behavior as well as the
underlying causes may be fundamentally different (Leonard 1989; Rice
and Wexler 1996; Clahsen 1989). Finally, agrammatism in Broca’s aphasia
crucially affects morpho-syntactic production in that speech dysfluency is
accompanied by errors (omission or substitution) affecting functional
categories primarily. Although in both SLI and agrammatism word-finding
problems are also attested, the primary cause of the deficit is associated
with the developmental delay or inaccessibility of the set of functional
categories and features (Gopnik 1990a, 1990b; Grodzinsky 2000).
Since Borer’s (1983) seminal work on the exclusive role of the inflec-
tional system in parametric variation, formal linguistic theory shifted its
attention to functional categories and the parametric values encoded on
their respective lexical entries (Chomsky 1986b, 1991). Syntactic variation
was therefore regarded as variation in the formal features of individual
60 I A N T H I M A R I A T S I M P L I
lexical items belonging to the functional category set, rather than to
properties of constructions as such. The Minimalist Program (Chomsky
1995b) moved several steps further with respect to syntactic computa-
tions; distinctions between (abstract) morphological features, such as
+/− interpretable, +/− intrinsic, and +/− valued (Chomsky 2001) motivate
the formation of dependencies, their legitimacy, and the status of the
derivation at the two interface levels, the phonetic (sensory-motor) and
the semantic (conceptual-intentional). Accordingly, each lexical item is
specified for a cluster of features, not all of which are instrumental for
the derivation: interpretable features do not trigger operations but they
participate in dependencies formed with uninterpretable features for the
latter’s benefit.
The shift from functional and lexical categories to features specified on
lexical items has allowed linguists to examine in far more detail subtle
properties of syntactic structures, cross-linguistic differences as well as
atypical grammars such as first or second language grammars, bilingual-
ism, developmental or acquired language disorders. This shift also allows
us to escape from the usual problems with the classification of many
lexical items as functional or lexical. For example, prepositions in many
languages but also within the same language exhibit a range of “lexi-
cality” (Kayne 1994); even within the traditionally lexical categories of
verbs and nouns there are “light” members which are more readily
classified as functional on the basis of their semantic content and syn-
tactic role (Kayne 2009).
This level of sophistication in the linguistic analysis, however, is not
easily translated into neurophysiology or brain imaging findings. There
has been extensive research on the processing and impairment patterns of
the major syntactic categories, verbs and nouns, which has revealed a
consistent advantage for nouns in typical first language development
(Fenson et al. 1994; Nelson 1973) – although there are exceptions
(Korean; Choi and Gopnik 1995 and Mandarin; Tardiff 1996) – and SLI
(Conti-Ramsden and Jones 1997; Black and Chiat 2002), while double dis-
sociations have been found in acquired language disorders (McCarthy and
Warrington 1985; Miceli et al. 1984). In SLI children, verbs are the affected
category in terms of exhibiting reduced production compared to nouns
and in being used uninflected. Moreover, verb production by the SLI
children in Conti-Ramsden and Jones’s (1997) study was heavily input
dependent in that the verbs children produced were used in the same
session by the parents.
Impairment with verbs and nouns (anomia) doubly dissociates in
acquired language disorders, as shown by various studies. Verb retrieval
difficulties are usually associated with non-fluent aphasia (Broca type)
while noun retrieval difficulties typically characterize fluent aphasics,
although language-specific effects of, for example, morphological trans-
parency or complexity on nouns and verbs may play a role (Kehayia and
(Evidence for) the language instinct 61
Jarema 1991; Kambanaros 2008). In general, evidence in favor of a link
between noun versus verb impairment and lesion site has been found:
lesions in posterior areas of the left hemisphere usually characterize
anomia while lesions in frontal areas characterize verb retrieval difficul-
ties (Goodglass and Kaplan 1983; Daniele et al. 1993, 1994; Damasio and
Tranel 1993). Nevertheless, these links are not without exceptions as
shown by other studies (Tranel et al. 2001).
Differences between nouns and verbs in acquisition and impairment are
intriguing for various reasons. First, they challenge the notion of a homo-
geneous class of lexical categories. Second, they trigger questions about
universal properties of verbs and nouns across languages, regardless of
morphological features specified on each category in language-specific
ways. Third, they trigger questions as to whether the problems with verb
or noun retrieval are problems with syntactic categories or problems with
different types of information attached to the lexical entry of a verb or a
noun – phonological, semantic, or syntactic.
It is well known that certain semantic and perceptual features can create
saliency and accessibility distinctions within the noun class (Kiehl et al.
1999), such as concreteness and imageability. Similarly, in the verb class,
action verbs differ from psychological or mental state verbs in both con-
creteness and imageability. One of the open questions is whether these
features are expected to create differences in the representation of syntac-
tic categories of nouns and verbs or in their processing and retrieval (this is
the question we considered earlier with respect to Syntax). There are
proposals which capitalize on the semantic (Bird et al. 2000), the syntactic,
or the lexical differences (Caramazza and Hillis 1991). The more general
question is whether these differences between nouns and verbs reflect
grammatical category differences or some of the semantic, perceptual, or
other features of lexical items (Shapiro and Caramazza 2003).
There is some evidence that points to the independence of semantic
features (e.g. imageability) from grammatical category distinctions (Berndt
et al. 2002). Furthermore, Shapiro et al.’s (2000) study of two patients
exhibiting double dissociation in noun and verb production failed to use
nonce words of the affected category in a sentence-completion task. Since
lexical semantics was not involved in this case, the suggestion is that at the
level of syntactic computation, grammatical category is processed inde-
pendently of meaning. This claim is compatible with the minimalist idea
that Merge should include categorial features of lexical items drawn from
the Numeration, but at the same time predicts that categorial features
become accessible earlier than other morphological, semantic, or the-
matic features.
To summarize the verb–noun distinction, the findings are on one hand
revealing in showing that verbs and nouns are discriminated in pathology,
acquired or developmental, although the pattern in SLI is consistently in
favor of noun production. In acquired language disorders, either category
62 I A N T H I M A R I A T S I M P L I
may be affected although the locus of the lesion and the deficit in noun or
verb retrieval are related. The question as to whether the grammatical
category distinction itself is the driving force of the dissociation or
whether semantic and perceptual feature distinctions in nouns and verbs
are responsible for the effects is not resolved yet. However, there is evi-
dence from a few studies showing that grammatical category distinctions
are “real” neuropsychological notions, relevant at the level of syntactic
processing.
Going back to the traditional distinction between lexical and func-
tional categories, it was shown to have been abandoned by the current
version of generative theory in favor of a feature-driven analysis of lexical
items and syntactic derivations. It is interesting to note that evidence
from an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging study
undermines the lexical–functional distinction as well. Friederici et al.
(2000) examined this distinction using concreteness and task demand
(syntactic versus semantic) as added variables. Functional categories
included prepositions (locative and abstract) and adverbs (of location
and abstract) while lexical categories included concrete and abstract
nouns. An issue of prototypicality also arises, since abstract content
(lexical) categories are non-prototypical in the same way that concrete
function words are non-prototypical. The main findings supported the
distinction in brain regions based on the nature of the task, i.e. semantic
vs. syntactic, rather than on the lexical–functional distinction itself,
although prototypicality effects were also attested: BA 44 which has
been shown to be active during syntactic processing in other studies
(Stromswold et al. 1996) showed increased activation in the syntactic
task of Friederici’s study in the processing of abstract nouns. This finding
is explained by reference to the fact that syntactic processing involves
processing of grammatical categories and as such non-prototypical
members of a grammatical category induce higher activation. The rele-
vance of this study to our discussion is primarily that it undermines the
functional–lexical distinction but, on the other hand, it suggests that
some semantic features such as concreteness are processed together
with grammatical category information during syntactic processing.
In all, although there is some evidence for specific brain regions being
responsible for the processing and representation of grammatical cate-
gories, this evidence is not conclusive insofar as the noun–verb or the
functional–lexical distinction is based on syntactic or semantic features
or a combination of the two. What is clear is that syntactic categories are
processed as such in the brain region (Broca’s area) activated during
syntactic processing (discussed in Section 5.3). In this respect, the co-
occurrence of categorial with other features on lexical items prevents us
from isolating the possibly unique status they enjoy in human cognition.
A related but different possibility would be to generalize further and
abstract away from noun–verb, lexical–functional, concrete–abstract and
(Evidence for) the language instinct 63
so on, despite the evidence for double dissociations and/or activation of
distinct brain regions in the processing of these features. Instead, we can
concentrate on the fact that any word in natural languages is specified for a
number of features which, nevertheless, do not appear to be decomposed
by the child learner during the process of lexical acquisition. Thus,
although certain features on words do seem to take priority over others
in the schedule of development (e.g. concrete before abstract, nouns
before verbs etc), lexical acquisition has been argued to exhibit the more
general property of “fast mapping” (Carey and Bartlett 1978). Fast mapping
refers to the ability to learn aspects of meaning of a word (primarily of
concrete nouns or colors) on the basis of very few exposures without
training or feedback. Although fast mapping has been considered a
domain-general ability (Tomasello 1999; Bloom 2001), others suggest that
a more elaborate version of it which includes both “easy” and “hard” words
is tuned to language alone (Gleitman et al. 2005). This property at the
lexical level arguably encompasses the spirit of the poverty of the stimulus
(PoS) argument; PoS is the nativist answer to language learnability ques-
tions and perhaps, as discussed in the following section, the most powerful
candidate for a language instinct (Pinker 1994).
5.5 The poverty of the stimulus argument and the language
instinct: Lexical acquisition
One of the main arguments for linguistic nativism concerns the outcome
of language acquisition: the language acquired is underdetermined by the
input, i.e. the data available to the child (Chomsky 1980). In essence, the
claim is that native speaker competence cannot be accounted for by
reference to linguistic experience that the learner is exposed to through-
out development, exclusively. The PoS argument has been discussed both
with respect to the acquisition of grammar and the acquisition of the
lexicon (although the lion’s share has been given to the acquisition of
syntax; Lightfoot 1989; Crain 1991; Wexler 1991). In order to test the PoS
argument many studies have concentrated on various syntactic (Kimball
1973; Baker 1978; Crain and Nakayama 1987; Lidz et al. 2003) phenomena,
with few studies discussing morphological word-formation (Gordon 1986).
Abstracting away from the search for PoS evidence for specific syntactic
phenomena, language acquisition on the whole implies the ability to
produce and understand an infinite number of sentences most of which
have not been encountered in the learner’s previous linguistic experience
(input). Thus defined, the PoS argument is hard to counteract while, at the
same time, it is generalizable to other types of knowledge humans acquire
which happens also to be underdetermined by experience. In this respect,
domain-general innate properties of human cognition could be held
responsible for acquisition (Berwick et al. 2011).
64 I A N T H I M A R I A T S I M P L I
The PoS argument can be empirically evaluated on the grounds of
four notions (Pullum and Scholz 2002). First, one needs to establish the
acquirendum, i.e. to define the phenomenon that needs to be learned.
Second, the notion of indispensability defines the critical input which
will be necessary for the learner to acquire the phenomenon in question.
The third point is the inaccessibility question, i.e. that the necessary
input is not really accessible to the learner, thus creating a poverty of
the stimulus learning context. This is where most of the PoS reasoning
stems from: the degeneracy, incompleteness, and paucity of the input
(Hornstein and Lightfoot 1981; Haegeman 1994; Seidenberg 1997).
Finally, the acquisition of the phenomenon discussed should be identi-
fied at the earliest possible stage, thus signaling the active involvement
of inherent constraints which aid the learner to form a hypothesis space
and consider a restricted set of alternatives within that space; this is the
learnability question (Laurence and Margolis 2001; Stromswold 1999;
Yang 2000).
Most of the criticism against the PoS argument for language acquis-
ition comes from empiricist-based approaches which seek to establish
the close (if not causal) link between the statistical analysis of the input
(probability counts) and the learner’s outcome (Tomasello 2003; Bates
and McWhinney 1989). In most of these studies, the emphasis is placed
on syntax since the generative PoS argument was primarily established
or exemplified by reference to syntactic phenomena, such as the distinc-
tion between Aux and V (Stromswold 1999) or auxiliary raising in yes–no
interrogatives (Crain and Nakayama 1987; Berwick et al. 2011). The
Lexicon is not prima facie a candidate for the PoS argument, since the
mapping between concepts and word labels can include a process of
association between an observable object and its name uttered during
the observation. Still, questions as to how many instances of this expo-
sure and whether cross-situational learning for statistical analysis are
needed, pertain to PoS: if it is established that lexical acquisition in the
cases of observable objects can be accomplished on the basis of limited
exposure and in a context where unambiguous reference is hard to
establish (the word-to-world mapping problem), the PoS argument
holds for lexical acquisition as well (Gleitman et al. 2005). Furthermore,
the acquisition of words which are not concrete, observable objects,
such as actions, events, mental state verbs, adjectives, and adverbs
challenges the claim of the PoS argument as impertinent to lexical
acquisition.
The acquisition of the lexicon has been argued to involve external
factors such as social interaction in the form of joint attention
(Tomasello 1992), internal factors such as a conceptual repertoire with
the potential to include a variety of objects and events (Spelke 1983),
and a machinery responsible for statistical, cross-situational learning
(Yu and Smith 2007; Vouloumanos 2008). If these factors suffice, there
(Evidence for) the language instinct 65
is no need to invoke a stimulus poverty argument for lexical acquisition.
Furthermore, if these factors are indeed necessary for lexical acquisition,
then the lexicon would appear to be more dependent on cognitive
prerequisites and domain-general properties of human cognition than
grammar acquisition. To some extent, the distinction between the devel-
opment of grammar and the development of the lexicon could indeed
be different insofar as the age factor, in some weak or strong version of
the Critical Period hypothesis, does not seem to be relevant (Markson and
Bloom 1997). Nevertheless, this lack of an age effect may be related to the
fact that newly acquired words are immediately integrated into already
established lexical representations comprising syntactic, semantic, and
morphological features which enter into the relevant paradigms. This
“scaffolding” could in turn be responsible for the lifelong ability to learn
new words since the way they are learned is based on a restricted set of
distributional criteria within language (syntax) and a set of cognitive
principles which characterize pragmatics and relevance (Sperber and
Wilson 1995).
The question to ask then is whether lexical development is qualitatively
different in early stages compared to adulthood and if so, in what way. The
answer to the first part of the question is positive: children acquire nouns
earlier than verbs regardless of the fact that adult input consists of full
clauses and, in certain languages, verbs are much more richly inflected and
salient than in English (Gleitman and Newport 1995). Moreover, of the
nouns children acquire, concrete take priority over abstract. Further dis-
tinctions within the verb category are relevant so that mental verbs are
delayed compared to action verbs and so on. We should now turn to the
second part of the question: in what way is early lexical development
different from adult acquisition of new lexical items?
With respect to social prerequisites, such as interaction and joint atten-
tion, these are required, observed, and necessary for the concrete nouns
more than for unobservable events, emotions, or mental states; since
children acquire concrete nouns earlier than other categories (syntactic
or semantic) they do not appear to differ from adults in these social
prerequisites. To the extent that statistical learning is essential for lexical
acquisition, it should be so for the early words as much as for the later
ones. What we are left with is the possibility that the conceptual repertoire
of children is incomplete (Carey 1994; Merriman and Tomasello 1995);
thus, new labels for concepts which are cognitively unavailable cannot be
acquired due to the incomplete mapping process.
This suggestion, as well as the claim that lexical acquisition relies on
statistical learning have been challenged by recent experimental work
exploiting the Human Simulation Paradigm (Gillette et al. 1999; Medina
et al. 2011). Adult learners were exposed to muted, natural, rather than
artificially created word-learning contexts (cf. Smith et al. 2010),
extracted from mother–child interactions. In Gillette et al. (1999) the
66 I A N T H I M A R I A T S I M P L I
rationale was to test whether observation in cross-situational learning
can establish lexical acquisition (in the form of guessing) thus simulating
child lexical acquisition. If adults performed differently from children in
the pattern of word guessing, the implication would be that the indis-
putable differences between adults and children in cognitive maturity,
hence in conceptual apparatus, are responsible for the pattern of “easy”
words first, “hard” words later, discussed above (Gleitman et al. 2005). If,
on the other hand, adults revealed a pattern similar to that of children
(nouns > verbs), then the conceptual difference hypothesis would be
undermined. The results obtained reveal a vast advantage for nouns
over verbs in all experimental conditions. Notably, the condition in
which accuracy in verb guessing was significantly higher was when the
syntactic frame in which the word occurred was presented (written)
while the extralinguistic context and noun knowledge were withheld.
Moreover, a crucial difference between verbs denoting actions and those
denoting mental states was also found: the learning contexts in which
the former were identified were those in which mental state verbs could
not be identified, indicating that syntactic frames are necessary and
sufficient for the acquisition of verbs which do not denote observable
actions. These results provide further evidence for the restricted scope of
word-to-world mapping in early vocabulary acquisition and the subse-
quent, syntactic bootstrapping referred to as structure-to-world mapping
(Gleitman 1990). Crucially, the claim is that verb acquisition presupposes
some syntactic development – in the form of hierarchical representa-
tions – so that structural constraints guide the learner to identify argu-
ment structure properties of verbs (Lidz and Gleitman 2004).
In Medina et al.’s (2011) study, the challenge addresses statistical
approaches to language learning which are based on domain-general
learning mechanisms. According to these approaches, lexical acquisition
operates in terms of cross-situational learning based on probability counts
of occurrences of lexical items which are stored and evaluated. The experi-
ments in Medina et al. show that “fast mapping” can be really fast: lexical
learning can be achieved on a single exposure with neither alternative
conjectures nor past learning contexts retained in memory.
In all, lexical acquisition reveals an interesting asymmetry in the devel-
opmental pattern: an early, pre-syntactic mapping and a later, structure-
based building of the lexicon which makes lexical acquisition of any
syntactic category possible. We can thus reconsider the minimalist, uni-
directional mode of structure-building, namely from lexical choices
(numeration) to derivations, through the evidence which points to the
critical role of structure for shaping language units in the lexicon.
Where does this take us in our search for the language instinct? To the
discovery of a cognitive ability which exclusively combines hierarchical
representations with units whose substance can only be fully conceived
within the system that creates them.
(Evidence for) the language instinct 67
5.6 In lieu of an epilogue: Christopher’s instinct
Christopher, an atypical autistic individual, with a strong asymmetry
between verbal and non-verbal abilities, apraxic, and institutionalized
throughout his adult life, has intact lexical and syntactic abilities in his
first language, English (Smith and Tsimpli 1995; Smith et al. 2011).
Christopher is also an atypical foreign language learner: he can learn
vocabulary and morphology of new languages very fast with minimal
exposure. His syntactic abilities in the non-native languages he is familiar
with are challenged in areas where differences between the native and the
“other” languages are found, primarily at the level of word-order variation.
Cross-linguistic differences in terms of morphology and the lexicon are
easily and accurately accommodated and used. He is able to process,
produce, and offer judgments on syntactic dependencies of various levels
of complexity and embedding, provided they do not challenge his process-
ing resources, as in the case of garden-path structures.
The rationale in this chapter has been to look for the language instinct
in computations and properties attributed and possibly dedicated to
Language. Having considered recursion in structure-building, syntactic
dependencies, and processing, the search shifted to the units which trigger
the relevant operations, namely syntactic categories and, eventually,
words. Unsurprisingly perhaps, words cannot be defined independently
of syntax. Moreover, and more importantly, words cannot be acquired
independently of syntax. Christopher’s instinct for language fits this inter-
dependence; it remains to be seen whether this is a way of approaching
the claim for a language instinct as well.
68 I A N T H I M A R I A T S I M P L I
6
Sensitive phases in
successive language
acquisition: The critical
period hypothesis
revisited
Jürgen M. Meisel
6.1 Biological foundations of the language
making capacity
This chapter is about the human Language Making Capacity (LMC) and its
fate across the lifetimes of individuals. The starting assumption is that the
language capacity is rooted in biology and transmitted genetically,
although its phylogenetic evolution and the ontogenetic development of
its specific manifestations are shaped in substantial ways by cultural
factors. The LMC is furthermore assumed to be subserved by species-
specific biological and cognitive properties as well as by properties shared
with other species. The issue to be discussed in the present contribution
concerns the way in which this capacity determines language acquisition
in the individual. Although “innate,” it becomes available to the individual
as a result of neural maturation, provided it is activated during specific
developmental periods by exposure to language in communicative set-
tings. This kind of interaction between biological and environmental
factors is familiar from the development of behavioral capacities in
other species, and it has also been observed in first language acquisition.
Second language acquisition, however, is unique to humans, and we can
therefore not turn to research investigating other species in order to learn
about the fate of the language capacity in successive language acquisition.
In what follows, I will argue that in spite of its activation in first language
development, the LMC does not remain fully accessible beyond certain age
ranges and that first and second language acquisition therefore exhibit a
number of crucial differences.
The LMC can be conceived as a cognitive system consisting of multiple
components. Since only some of them are arguably domain-specific, it is
useful to distinguish between the LMC, comprising domain-specific as
well as domain-general cognitive operations, and the LAD (Language
Acquisition Device) which assembles only domain-specific principles
and mechanisms, subserving exclusively the acquisition and processing
of formal properties of human languages. Although the debate on the
role of the LAD in language acquisition has focused largely on principles
of Universal Grammar (UG), it should be obvious that the LAD consists of
more than just UG, considered as the central component of this capacity
but not as the acquisition device; see Carroll (2001). Rather, the LAD
comprises, in addition to representational knowledge (UG principles) guid-
ing language development, domain-specific discovery and processing mech-
anisms, the former bootstrapping the child into the grammatical system;
cf. Meisel (2011, Chapter 2). This claim is best illustrated by referring to
the impressive research carried out over the past 20 years demonstrating
that children, already during the first year of their lives and arguably
even on prenatal exposure to language, focus on just those properties of
linguistic utterances which are crucial for the discovery of formal aspects
of language, in general, and of the specific properties of their individual
target languages, more specifically; see Guasti (2002, Chapter 2). In sum,
it is useful to distinguish between the Language Making Capacity and the
Language Acquisition Device, the latter comprising UG as a central
component. The present contribution will then focus on an inquiry as
to how the LAD fares across the lifespan of individual learners.
The fact that children exposed to one (L1) or more (2L1) languages
acquire the underlying grammatical system(s) of their first language(s)
successfully (ultimate achievement), within a surprisingly short period of
time (developmental rate), proceeding through the same, strictly ordered
developmental sequences (uniformity of development), corroborates the
claim that the LMC indeed guides L1 acquisition. Research carried out
within the theory of UG, has, in fact, focused almost exclusively on the
role of UG or of the LAD in this process.
Importantly, when compared to monolingual L1 learners, children grow-
ing up with two or more languages simultaneously do not exhibit qualita-
tive differences in the course of acquisition of their languages or in the kind
of grammatical knowledge attained. Simultaneous acquisition of languages
has therefore been qualified as multiple first language acquisition; for a
summary of research results on early bilingualism see De Houwer (1995).
This conclusion is primarily based on the following observations: (1) linguis-
tic systems are differentiated from early on, (2) grammatical development
proceeds through the same developmental sequences as in monolingual
acquisition, and (3) the grammatical knowledge ultimately attained in each
of the languages of multilingual children is identical in nature to that of
their monolingual counterparts. Consequently, these properties of 2L1, just
70 J Ü R G E N M . M E I S E L
as in L1, can be attributed to the availability of the LAD; i.e. both bilingual
and monolingual L1 acquisition are guided by principles of UG, and the
presence of another language in the environment and in the minds of
learners does not result in substantive differences between 2L1 and mono-
lingual L1 development – at least not when languages are acquired simulta-
neously from birth. The LAD is thus an endowment for multilingualism
which, however, can be argued to fail when it is not activated during the
appropriate developmental period.
6.2 The Critical Period Hypothesis for
language acquisition
One fundamental property characterizing both monolingual and multi-
lingual first language acquisition is that children are exposed to the target
language(s) from birth. In fact, there is growing evidence that prenatal
exposure to the sounds of language already triggers the acquisition proc-
ess. The claim that first language acquisition is always successful – leaving
pathological cases apart – thus refers to a scenario in which children
interact with caretakers and peers during the first years of their lives.
One can therefore surmise that the genetically transmitted human lan-
guage capacity initiates the process of linguistic development and, if
stimulated by exposure to the primary linguistic data in an adequate social
setting, guides it during the subsequent course of acquisition. The ques-
tion at stake then is whether the LMC remains available indefinitely,
independently of whether it is activated during a child’s early years or
not. There are reasons to believe that this is not the case, and a number of
factors can be hypothesized to cause this change, or possibly the deterio-
ration of this faculty. Most importantly in the present context, neural
maturation seems to open but subsequently also close windows of oppor-
tunities for the language-acquiring child. A causal relationship of this sort
between maturational changes and changes in the language acquisition
capacity is, of course, what is postulated by the Critical Period Hypothesis
(CPH) first proposed by Penfield and Roberts (1959) and elaborated in some
detail in the seminal work of Lenneberg (1967).
There can indeed be little doubt that (monolingual) first language
acquisition is subject to critical period effects, as becomes evident in
the careful review of the literature on this topic by Hyltenstam and
Abrahamsson (2003). The same conclusion can, in fact, be drawn from
the discussion by Gleitman and Newport (1995) who present an overview
of different types of L1 development including cases of partial or total
deprivation from input and of late exposure, as for example with deaf
children of hearing parents who were exposed to sign language only at
later stages of development. Importantly, these authors provide evidence
for the robustness of the language acquisition device, even in cases where
Sensitive phases in successive language acquisition 71
exposure to language is drastically reduced or onset of acquisition is
delayed. But they also emphasize the effects of a biologically determined
maturational schedule.
As for the age range during which such changes happen, the limited
empirical evidence currently available makes it difficult to define this
precisely. Yet the age around puberty, suggested by Lenneberg (1967),
clearly sets the cut-off point too late. In fact, Penfield and Roberts (1959:
236) already proposed the age span from birth to around age 9 as the
critical one, during which children are able to acquire a first language by
exposure to the primary linguistic data. They argued that “the human
brain becomes progressively stiff and rigid after the age of nine.” If, how-
ever, we ask when such effects begin to emerge, we find that Gleitman
and Newport (1995) report on subtle effects as early as of an age of onset of
acquisition (AO) at 4 years, and massive effects after AO 6, e.g. in delayed
L1 acquisition of American Sign Language (ASL). These findings are in line
with what we know about the dramatic cases of children who were parti-
ally or totally isolated during early childhood. When AO is delayed beyond
age 6 or 7, language acquisition differs substantially from that of normally
developing children. The well-documented case study of Genie provided
particularly strong evidence in support of the assumption of a critical
period for first language acquisition since it revealed that she never
acquired a grammatical competence remotely similar to that of native
speakers; see Curtiss (1977). Genie’s case does not, however, allow us to
delimit the critical age range more precisely because she was isolated
during her second year of life through the age of 13 years and seven
months.
Subsequent research has demonstrated that the original version of the
Critical Period Hypothesis needs to be revised not only with respect to the
critical age range but also in a number of further aspects, e.g. concerning
the alleged causal role of the functional lateralization of the brain; see
Hyltenstam and Abrahamsson (2003) for a state-of-the-art discussion.
These revisions do not, however, affect the fundamental concept of the
CPH, and yet it has met with much scepticism among acquisition research-
ers. Admittedly, empirical studies produced conflicting results. But those
arguing against a CP in successive acquisition typically refer to only some
aspects of grammar which appear to be used in a native-like fashion; see
Abrahamsson and Hyltenstam (2009: 253). Moreover, much of the
criticism seems to be due to the fact that conceptualizations of the CPH
frequently suffer from insufficiently precise definitions of the notion of
“critical period” (cf. Eubank and Gregg 1999), occasionally covering several
distinct hypotheses, as observed by Birdsong (1999). In what follows, I will
attempt to define this notion of “critical period” more restrictively, in
accordance with recent insights gained by research in linguistics as well
as in the neurosciences. This will hopefully contribute to a somewhat less
controversial debate.
72 J Ü R G E N M . M E I S E L
6.3 Successive acquisition: Differences between
ﬁrst and second language acquisition
Successive language acquisition is clearly not characterized by the above-
mentioned properties attributed to monolingual and bilingual first lan-
guage acquisition. Rate of L2 acquisition is typically protracted, and, contrary
to the uniformity of L1 across children, one finds a broad range of variation in
L2, across individuals and within learners over time. Most importantly, it is
obviously not the case that all L2 learners are successful. Whether it is in
principle impossible to acquire native competence in a second language is a
matter of controversy, but near-native or nativelike learners are clearly the
exception. In fact, nativelikeness can apparently only be attained if AO
happens in childhood, possibly before age 8, but never by adult learners;
cf. Abrahamsson and Hyltenstam (2009).
The claim that first and second language acquisition differ in these
respects is in itself not a controversial one. However, whether the
observed differences are caused by age-related maturational changes
and whether they reflect substantive differences in the acquired gram-
matical knowledge are indeed questions leading to much controversy.
Concerning the first one, I should at least mention the frequently cited
study by Johnson and Newport (1989). Based on an evaluation of gram-
maticality judgments, they argued that age of onset can be considered as
the most crucial variable predicting L2 proficiency, rather than, for
example, length of exposure. For a discussion of these and related find-
ings, I want to refer again to the state-of the-art summary by Hyltenstam
and Abrahamsson (2003) and to the overview offered by DeKeyser and
Larson-Hall (2005). Since some of the more serious objections raised
against the conclusions by Johnson and Newport (1989) relate to meth-
odological problems, it should be noted that DeKeyser (2000) carried out
a replication study taking these methodological concerns into account,
adding to this a language learning aptitude test. He was able to confirm
that age of onset must be considered as a crucial variable determining
attainable L2 proficiency (AO before or after 16). In fact, DeKeyser and
Larson-Hall (2005) concluded that a maturational decline in the language
learning capacity indeed exists, arguing that adults rely largely on
explicit learning, whereas children tend to learn implicitly. But these
authors emphasize that effects of age of onset are probably not caused by
maturational changes alone. This is also the underlying assumption of
the present discussion, and I will return to this issue below.
The second question concerns the issue of whether observed differences
across acquisition types reflect different kinds of grammatical knowledge.
According to the Fundamental Difference Hypothesis (FDH), first proposed
by Bley-Vroman (1990), this is indeed the case, and UG is said not to be fully
accessible for L2 learners. Alternatively, it has been claimed that the LAD
Sensitive phases in successive language acquisition 73
remains completely accessible and that the observed differences can be
explained in terms of secondary factors influencing the course of acquis-
ition; see, for example, the Full Transfer/ Full Access hypothesis propa-
gated by Schwartz and Sprouse (1996). This scenario predicts massive
transfer of grammatical knowledge from the L1 at the initial state of L2
acquisition. In terms of parameter theory, this entails the necessity of
“resetting” those parameters for which the two target systems require
different settings and which are set to the L1 value at the L2 initial state.
Yet “resetting” is probably not possible for principled reasons, as has been
argued by Clahsen (1991) and others. If this objection is correct, it entails
that L2 learners need to resort to other cognitive resources in instances
where they cannot rely on knowledge provided by UG like children acquir-
ing their L1.
Importantly, assuming partial inaccessibility of UG does not exclude the
possibility for some L2 learners to acquire a near-native proficiency of the
target L2. Rather, it accounts for the fact that L2 learners differ strongly in
how successful they are in achieving this goal. Moreover, in cases where
they cannot activate UG knowledge, they need to rely more heavily on
inductive learning. As a result, L2 acquisition processes are more protracted
and less uniform than L1 development, exhibiting, for example, effects of
hypothesis-testing by trial and error over several months in grammatical
domains where L1 children succeed within a short period of time, some-
times within a couple of weeks; see Meisel (2011: 144 ff.) for a more detailed
discussion. The lack of abrupt change in the linguistic behavior of L2
learners and its occurrence in L1 development not only constitute one of
the empirically testable pieces of evidence supporting the claim that the
two types of acquisition rely on different acquisition mechanisms, this also
suggests that the acquired knowledge is different in the two cases. In other
words, these observable differences are not merely properties of a particular
type of language use, they reflect rather differences in the nature of the
underlying linguistic knowledge; see Meisel (2011: 191 ff.).
Note that the FDH, as it is advocated here, does not claim that L2 learners
are not guided by the LAD at all. Instead, it argues that some of the principles
and mechanisms which shape L1 become inaccessible in the course of
development and that these changes are partly due to neural maturation.
This concerns primarily access to principles of UG. In fact, Smith and
Tsimpli (1995) provide evidence suggesting that only parameterized princi-
ples are subject to maturation, thus establishing a relationship between
linguistic and neural maturation and emphasizing the modular organiza-
tion of mind and grammar. In other words, L2 learners are predicted not to
have direct access any more to options provided by parameterized UG
principles, and although they can make use of previously acquired gram-
matical knowledge, they cannot fix the value of a parameter not instanti-
ated in L1, nor can they “reset” those parameter values in which the two
grammars differ. Where triggering of implicit knowledge has become
74 J Ü R G E N M . M E I S E L
impossible, learners have to rely on inductive learning. In doing so, they
may resort to cognitive resources other than the domain-specific ones
offered by the LAD in order to compensate for the ones which have become
inaccessible. Non-parameterized principles of UG, on the other hand, con-
strain L2 acquisition in essentially the same way as in (2)L1. Consequently,
L2 knowledge conforms only in part to principles of UG, whereas other parts
are not constrained by domain-specific cognitive principles but are the
result of domain-general operations.
Maturational changes can, however, affect other mechanisms of the LAD
as well, not just parameterized principles of UG. As pointed out by Bley-
Vroman (1990: 14), the domain-specific learning procedures are also sub-
ject to such changes. They enable a child to develop the grammar of the
target language when exposed to the primary linguistic data. In other
words, the discovery principles and learning mechanisms contained in
the LAD, cf. Section 6.1, are likely to be affected by changes in the course of
development as well. This, however, need not be the result of changes
caused by neural maturation. This should not come as a surprise because
the Language Making Capacity is quite obviously also affected by other age-
related changes. These, however, are not our concern here.
6.4 The Critical Period Hypothesis revisited:
Sensitive phases in language development
6.4.1 Revisiting the Critical Period Hypothesis
In view of the insights gained by research on successive acquisition of
languages mentioned in the previous section, the extension of the CPH to
second language acquisition seems to be well motivated. This is of course
not a logical necessity, not even if we are correct in assuming that the
capacity for language acquisition fades out in first language development
if it is not activated during the first months or years of life. In principle, the
LMC might be protected from effects of maturational changes once it has
been activated and some linguistic knowledge is represented in the mind
of an individual. In other words, it is at least logically possible that, once
activated, the language capacity remains available indefinitely; cf. Johnson
and Newport (1989). Findings from L2 research, however, provide suffi-
cient reasons to assume that this is not the case. Note that this is not to say
that all L1–L2 differences are likely to be caused by neural maturation.
Rather, as alluded to before, it is likely that a number of additional factors
come into play here as well, and some of the observed differences can
undoubtedly be accounted for in terms of other types of developmental
changes, like for example the more mature cognitive abilities of learners
at later ages of onset, their socio-psychological development, or reliance
on previously acquired linguistic knowledge. In the present context, how-
ever, the focus is on neural maturation as a causal factor affecting the
Sensitive phases in successive language acquisition 75
availability of the LAD in successive acquisition of languages, an issue
already raised by Lenneberg (1967: 176) who himself extended the CPH
to L2 acquisition:
automatic acquisition from mere exposure to a given language seems to
disappear [after puberty], and foreign languages have to be taught and
learned through a conscious and labored effort. Foreign accents cannot be
overcome easily after puberty. However, a person can learn to communi-
cate at the age of forty. This does not trouble our basic hypothesis.
As becomes apparent from this quote, he emphasizes a point also made in
the previous section, namely that the question is not whether language
acquisition continues to be possible but why L2 learners are only partially
successful. The answer proposed here is that the ability to develop a full
grammatical competence by mere exposure disappears in the course of
development. But Lenneberg’s statement further implies that the various
domains of grammar are affected to different degrees by this change, an
important specification contributing to a better understanding of the CPH
as applied to successive language acquisition.
In what follows, I will take both these considerations into account when
attempting to further specify and clarify the notion of “critical period.”
The first point to be addressed is that it is not “language” which is affected
by maturational changes but certain domains of grammar. The acquisition of
lexical knowledge, for example, is not concerned at all. Consequently, the
discussion of whether successive language acquisition is characterized by
a critical period after which a native grammatical competence cannot be
acquired should refer to evidence relating to just those domains of gram-
mar which are hypothesized to be subject to maturational changes. If the
approach summarized in the previous section is correct, parameterized
principles of UG are the ones primarily concerned. Whether this is indeed
correct and whether this is the only grammatical domain concerned or
whether such changes affect other grammatical properties as well, these
are questions which need to be pursued further. Yet independently of what
the ultimate answers will be, the validity of the Critical Period Hypothesis
can be tested empirically by focusing on the acquisition of linguistic
phenomena related to parameterized principles. If first and second lan-
guage acquisition result in qualitative differences in this domain, as I claim
to be the case, this provides strong support for the assumption that critical
period effects characterize successive acquisition in a similar fashion as
first language development. This does not, of course, exclude the possibil-
ity that other domains of grammar are subject to such constraints as well.
A second point which needs to be considered when attempting to define
more precisely the notion of “critical period” concerns the fact that no
current theorizing, either in linguistics or in cognitive psychology or the
neurosciences, obliges us to assume that the grammatical domains subject
to maturational changes are all affected simultaneously, during a single
76 J Ü R G E N M . M E I S E L
age period. Quite to the contrary, past research demonstrates that phonol-
ogy, morphology, and syntax follow distinct developmental agendas; see,
for example Long (1990) or Eubank and Gregg (1999). In fact, assuming that
linguistic development proceeds through sensitive phases during which the
LAD is optimally prepared for the integration of new information into
developing grammars, we must expect to find asynchronous development
even within these subcomponents of grammar. Consequently, rather than
postulating one critical period for language acquisition, a more plausible
hypothesis is that grammatical development is characterized by several
sensitive phases; see Locke (1997), among others. If it can be shown that
sensitive phases cluster at different points of linguistic development, each
of these clusters can be argued to constitute the equivalent of one of
multiple critical periods; cf. Seliger (1978).
The third point concerns the nature of these sensitive phases. Notions
like “critical period” or “sensitive phase” do not necessarily imply an
abrupt loss of a previously available capacity, as if this capacity was
suddenly switched off; cf. Hyltenstam and Abrahamsson (2003: 556).
Rather, a phase can be characterized by an optimal period for the acquis-
ition of the phenomenon in question which then fades out gradually,
possibly over an extended period of time, although it typically becomes
accessible within a brief time span. In other words, we may expect to find a
pattern characterized by a relatively short onset, followed by an extended
optimal period and a gradual offset. This protracted offset makes it difficult to
determine with desirable precision when exactly in the course of develop-
ment such changes occur. My suggestion is to focus on the time when
optimal periods begin to fade out, i.e. to attempt to determine the moment
or the time span when the optimal period ends.
This latter remark alludes to another crucial issue, the developmental
agenda determined by maturational changes of the LAD. Having argued
that a “critical period” in linguistic development consists of a cluster of
sensitive phases, each characterized by an optimal period for the acquis-
ition of one out of a set of grammatical phenomena, we should try to
identify the approximate developmental period, possibly in terms of age
spans, of every sensitive phase, and also the periods during which such
phases cluster. Note that there is no a priori reason for why phases should
cluster rather than occurring independently. Yet past research has
assembled empirical evidence demonstrating that periods of heightened
activity do exist in language acquisition and that the course of acquisition
is not always characterized by a continuous process of gradual increase of
grammatical knowledge. Assuming that this is at least in part an effect of
neural maturation, this observation justifies the hypothesis that sensitive
phases do cluster at certain points of development. As for when this
happens, we should not expect to be able to identify precise age ranges,
given that the rate of acquisition varies considerably across individuals,
but we can attempt to give approximate age spans.
Sensitive phases in successive language acquisition 77
6.4.2 Sensitive phases: Possible age ranges
This brings us to the notoriously difficult problem concerning the age
ranges during which maturationally caused changes happen in the course
of successive language acquisition. Much of the discussion of this issue
refers to Lenneberg’s (1967) suggestion of puberty as the relevant devel-
opmental period, ignoring the claim by Penfield and Roberts (1959) that
decreasing brain plasticity justifies the assumption that such changes
occur at around age 9. This widespread adoption of the hypothesis of a
CP at around puberty, even in recent publications, is all the more surpris-
ing since the developmental correlation between brain lateralization and
critical period effects, hypothesized by Lenneberg (1967), has long been
demonstrated not to hold. Moreover, subsequent acquisition research
revealed that some aspects of grammar are definitely affected much ear-
lier; see Long (1990).
In their comprehensive state-of-the-art survey, Hyltenstam and
Abrahamsson (2003: 575) arrive at the conclusion that “At least up
to AOs 6 or 7, all learners will automatically reach levels that allow
them to pass as native speakers – provided that there is sufficient input
and that the learning circumstances are not deficient.” After this age,
social-psychological factors play an increasingly important role in L2
acquisition, whereas their influence is negligible during early childhood.
Yet “to pass as native speakers” does not necessarily imply that learners
have acquired native grammatical competences. Quite to the contrary,
although the authors of this report are extremely careful when it comes
to drawing conclusions concerning cut-off points in linguistic develop-
ment, they do present evidence suggesting that a native grammatical
competence may never be attainable in successive language acquisition;
see also Abrahamsson and Hyltenstam (2009). In fact, they suggest that
maturational effects happen much earlier, “perhaps as early as 12 months”
(Hyltenstam and Abrahamsson 2003: 570) referring to phonological
development, and they observe that maturational effects on language
development are noticeable as of birth and up to approximately age 15
when, according to them, the maturational period ends.
In sum, studies reviewing the currently available knowledge on this
topic mention the age span at around age 7 (here quoted as 6 to 7, else-
where as 7–8) as one during which significant changes happen and AO of
approximately 15–16 (cf. also DeKeyser, Alfi-Shabtay, and Ravid 2010) as
the age period after which no age related changes are detected anymore.
Moreover, recent research, referred to below, supports the finding by
Johnson and Newport (1989) who argued that critical age limits affecting
morphosyntax may lie before age 7, possibly between ages 4–6. In other
words, if age of onset in successive language acquisition falls into this age
span, the optimal period for the acquisition of some grammatical phenom-
ena may already have begun to fade out. Consequently, critical period
78 J Ü R G E N M . M E I S E L
effects should be detectable at different points of development between
the ages of approximately 4 and 16 years.
The claim that maturationally related changes may happen as early as
around age 4 is primarily based on insights gained by recent research
analyzing early successive language acquisition, a previously under-
researched area of investigation. In fact, studies of first exposure to a
second language during the first three years are still scarce, but successive
acquisition at AO between age 3 and 6 has recently been investigated more
frequently; cf. Unsworth (2005). The results of these studies suggest that
early successive acquisition resembles adult L2 acquisition (aL2) in a num-
ber of aspects, not only in phonology but also in morphosyntax. To avoid
misunderstandings, this does not mean that the language of these children
is identical in all respects to that of adult L2 learners but rather that one
can find some grammatical properties which are not attested in L1 but in
aL2. There is still uncertainty and disagreement on which domains of
grammar are most likely to resemble aL2, see for example Schwartz
(2004) or Meisel (2008); I will briefly return to this issue below. But the
claim that L2 properties begin to emerge shortly before or after age 4, see
Meisel (2004) or Schwartz (2004), has been corroborated in several recent
studies investigating the acquisition of various language pairs in different
settings; see for example Meisel (2009), Preißler (2011), Schlyter (2011),
and Sopata (2009, 2011).
Importantly, corroboration of the hypothesis that L1–L2 differences are
primarily due to neural maturation and that the age at around 4 years is of
special importance in this respect, is also provided by research investigat-
ing changes in the functional organization of the brain. This is crucial not
only because a hypothesis referring to both linguistic development and
neural maturation quite obviously cannot rely on linguistic evidence
alone, but also because effects of maturational changes can be “masked”
in behavioral data (Eubank and Gregg 1999: 82) if learners resort to non-
domain-specific operations.
Changes in the functional organization of the brain over time should
result in different activation patterns and possibly in a different spatial
organization of the brain in language processing if the onset of exposure to
a language falls outside the optimal period, whereas no such differences
should emerge if first exposure falls within this period. In the present
context, Broca’s area, encompassing the pars opercularis of the left inferior
frontal gyrus (BA 44) and the posterior portion of pars triangularis (BA 45), is
particularly relevant, for it plays a crucial role in syntactic processing
during sentence comprehension. The type of evidence we are looking for
is provided by studies using electrophysiological or haemodynamic meth-
ods (e.g. functional magnetic resonance imaging, fMRI, or positron emis-
sion tomography, PET).
In fMRI studies, variations of cerebral activity are recorded as tomo-
grams, i.e. slices through the brain measuring the regional cerebral
Sensitive phases in successive language acquisition 79
blood flow (rCBF). This, in turn, is interpreted as reflecting regional brain
activation. There exists now a sizable body of research of this type, and a
number of these publications found differences in the intensity of brain
activation between native speakers and L2 learners in processing morpho-
syntactic information, and some have also detected spatial differentiation.
Among the first to report findings of this type were Kim et al. (1997),
comparing children acquiring two languages from “early infancy” with
others who acquired the second language successively (11;2 average AO).
They found that in early bilinguals both languages are processed in largely
overlapping regions in Broca’s area, whereas processing of the two lan-
guages is spatially separated in successive bilingualism. Dehaene et al.
(1997), too, observed that L2 processing relies on larger and spatially
more diffuse networks; they concluded that L1 but not necessarily L2 relies
on a dedicated left-hemispheric cerebral network. They further reported
on more brain activation in the temporal lobe and in the right hemisphere
and more individual variation in L2 learners when compared to native
speakers. Although some of these studies have been criticized for meth-
odological shortcomings, the most crucial aspects of their results have
been corroborated by more recent brain-imaging research. Wartenburger
et al. (2003), for example, confirmed that brain activities in morphosyntac-
tic processing depend on AO (critical age 6 years). Interestingly, profi-
ciency level turns out to be a crucial factor in semantic but not in
syntactic processing. Whereas these studies contrasted monolingual L1
and L2 speakers, Saur et al. (2009) compared subjects who had acquired
French and German simultaneously to French L2 learners of German and
German L2 learners of French, focusing on the processing of word order
variation. This analysis revealed similar patterns of activation in both L2
groups, with higher activation in L2 than in L1 sentence processing in the
left inferior frontal gyrus, the basal ganglia, and the left inferior temporal
gyrus. Early bilinguals, however, did not exhibit differences in activation
between the two languages in these areas.
fMRI results thus confirm the finding by behavioural studies, demon-
strating substantial differences between L1 and L2 speakers, and they
provide further evidence suggesting that maturational changes cause
such differences to occur at around age 6–7. Yet to my knowledge, research
using haemodynamic methods did not inquire whether similar effects can
be observed at an earlier age, possibly because, until recently, it was very
difficult to perform brain scans with very young children.
ERP studies, however, have included younger children. They use electro-
encephalography (EEG), a method by which electrical variations induced
by neural activity are recorded at the surface of the scalp. From the
recorded variations event-related brain potentials (ERPs) are derived.
Several ERP studies, e.g. Weber-Fox and Neville (1996, 1999), demonstrated
that spatial distribution of activation patterns in the left hemisphere
changes in the course of development, depending on age of acquisition,
80 J Ü R G E N M . M E I S E L
i.e. specialization in the left hemisphere is reduced and the right hemi-
sphere is increasingly activated. The critical age ranges seem to be at
around age 4;0 years and again around 7 years, i.e. if AO happens at age 4
or later, this effect of more diffuse spatial distribution and increasing right
hemispheric processing becomes increasingly stronger. Importantly,
Weber-Fox and Neville (1999) and others observed not only differences
in spatial distribution but also in the quality of ERP-responses as a result
of later ages of onset. But, again, as in investigations using fMRI, such L1–
L2 differences are only detected in syntactic processing, whereas semantic
processing does not produce this type of effect; see Friederici (2002) for a
critical summary of such findings, or Isel (2005) for a review of ERP studies
investigating L1 and L2 acquisition.
In sum, neuroimaging studies support the hypothesis that age of onset
of acquisition is a major cause for L1–L2 differences in processing gram-
matical information. They furthermore corroborate the claim that impor-
tant changes happen at around age 6–7, and some ERP results confirm the
assumption that crucial changes occur already at around age 4. This kind
of research cannot, however, offer more detailed insights concerning the
question of which domains of grammar are the developmentally earliest
ones to be affected by neural maturation. Behavioral studies are better
suited to shed light on this question because they can detect even subtle
changes in the use of specific grammatical constructions, whereas brain
imaging studies are not (yet) able to capture changes in brain activation
patterns or in spatial organization reflecting such grammatical subtleties.
6.4.3 Sensitive phases: Grammatical domains
As mentioned above, the question of which domains of grammar are
affected by maturational changes at an early age is still being debated.
The only uncontroversial claim apparently is that some aspects of phonol-
ogy count among the ones which are subject to such changes from very
early on. This admittedly unsatisfactory situation is a reflection of the fact
that current theorizing, in linguistics as well as in developmental psychol-
ogy or the neurosciences, does not allow us to make specific predictions
about developmental agendas. As should have become apparent in the
preceding sections, we are able to formulate hypotheses about which
aspects of grammar are likely to be affected, e.g. parameterized principles
of UG, or about what kind of effects will probably occur, e.g. protracted rate
of learning or uncommon brain activation patterns, but this does not tell
us which of these effects will happen at which point of development, or which
grammatical phenomena will be affected earlier or later. In view of this
lack of predictive power of deductive approaches to linguistic develop-
ment, we need to rely on inductive procedures, i.e. on empirical research
contrasting instances of successive language acquisition at different ages
of onset.
Sensitive phases in successive language acquisition 81
I should mention, however, that at least one study attempted to develop
a theoretically based argument concerning the issue at stake here.
Schwartz (2004) predicted that child L2 acquisition will be like adult L2
acquisition in the domain of syntax but not in the domain of inflectional
morphology. Interpreting this in terms of possible effects of maturational
changes, it amounts to saying that optimal periods for the acquisition of
syntax fade out earlier than those for morphology. Yet such a claim is
problematic for both theoretical and empirical reasons. Concerning the
latter, even the limited knowledge about child L2 acquisition available
before the recent surge in research activities, suggests that inflectional
morphology is in fact more problematic for cL2 learners than most aspects
of syntax. As for theoretical considerations, this claim implies a superficial
and thus inadequate definition of L1–L2 differences. If, on the other hand,
they are of a deeper and more abstract nature, they will necessarily mani-
fest themselves in syntactic as well as morphological properties. As an
example, think of “finiteness,” a grammatical notion relating to the place-
ment as well as to the forms of auxiliaries and/or main verbs. Thus, if
learners encounter problems with the acquisition of finiteness, this will
have repercussions for word order, agreement and tense marking, and so
forth, depending on how the target language encodes this grammatical
notion. Consequently, it is not possible to plot syntax as a whole earlier on
the developmental agenda than inflectional morphology – nor vice versa,
for that matter. Rather, the prediction is that syntactic and morphological
properties will be intertwined on the developmental axis.
Recent investigations of successive language acquisition confirm this
prediction. Most importantly, it has been demonstrated that children at
AO just before or after 4 frequently behave like aL2 learners in their
acquisition and use of inflectional morphology. Meisel (2008), for exam-
ple, studied the acquisition of finiteness in French by children with
German as L1, AO ranging from ages 2;8 through 4;0. In L1, finiteness is
acquired early and typically without errors in person agreement. In
Colloquial French, subject clitic (SCL) pronouns enter into a close rela-
tionship with the finite verb and have been analyzed as agreement
markers; cf. Kaiser (1994). Irrespective of the details of this analysis,
what matters is that L1 children do not combine these elements with
non-finite verb forms. Several of the cL2 learners, however, did so, and
they also used constructions with two adjacent finite verbs, a pattern not
attested in L1, either. The SCL + non-finite V–pattern not only makes cL2
look different from (2)L1, it also brings it closer to aL2 since Granfeldt and
Schlyter (2004) have shown that this construction is used by adult L2
learners of French. According to their analysis, aL2 learners do not cliti-
cize pronominal subjects; rather, they treat them as arguments (XPs),
whereas 2L1 children analyze them as X0
–heads from early on. This
finding is confirmed by Granfeldt, Schlyter, and Kihlstedt (2007) who
compared Swedish cL2 and 2L1 children with French monolinguals. The
82 J Ü R G E N M . M E I S E L
cL2 learners (AO 3;5 – 6;7) resembled adult learners of French not only in
combining SCL with non-finite verbs, but also in their use of tense forms
and of gender agreement and in placing object clitics (OCL) post-verbally.
Similar results have been obtained in subsequent research. Preißler
(2011), for example, confirmed that subject pronouns behave like full
DPs rather than SCL in the speech of cL2 French learners (L1 German, AO
at around age 4). And Schlyter (2011) found that Swedish cL2 learners of
French (AO at around 4 or later), behave much like aL2 learners in their
use of past tense, lexical aspect, and temporal reference. She explains
this primarily with reference to the children’s previously acquired L1
knowledge, arguing that they rely on the system of functional categories
of their L1, mapping L2 lexical items on this structure and using default
forms or forms frequently encountered in the PLD. At any rate, these and
similar results strongly suggest that it is precisely in the morphological
domain in which child L2 resembles adult L2.
This conclusion is supported by the analysis of the acquisition of
grammatical gender by German child L2 learners (AO at around age 4)
of French; see Meisel (2009). Note, however, that whereas gender concord
(e.g. agreement between articles and nouns) is clearly a syntactic oper-
ation, gender assignment is an operation contributing to nominal mor-
phology. In languages like French or German where gender is neither
fully motivated by semantic properties of nouns nor unambiguously
determined by overt markings, L1 children have been shown to rely on
phonological, morphological, and semantic cues. In instances where
these provide conflicting evidence, formal cues tend to override func-
tional ones in L1 French; cf. Karmiloff-Smith (1978). Child L2 learners of
French, however, do not seem to be able to make use of these formal cues;
cf. Meisel (2009). They thus differ from L1 children and resemble aL2
learners who tend to rely on functional properties (semantic, contextual,
etc.) instead. Importantly, this type of gender assignment is not guided by
principles of UG but by the kind of discovery mechanisms introduced in
Sections 6.1 and 6.3. This suggests that not only parameterized principles
of UG but discovery and learning principles too become inaccessible in
the course of linguistic development.
As for word order, the German-speaking children acquiring French
(Meisel 2008, 2009) do not seem to encounter problems with the acquis-
ition of syntax. But this may be due to the fact that word order regularities
of VO languages lacking verb-second (V2) effects are acquired relatively
fast and without major problems by young L2 learners whose acquisition
rate tends to be faster than that of adults anyway. In other words, other
target languages may turn out to be more problematic for child L2 learn-
ers. In fact, in a recent study of three Polish boys learning German (AO 3;8–
4;7), Sopata (2009, 2011) demonstrated that German OV order is not the
preferred pattern for these children who, moreover, initially place finite
verbs frequently in a target-deviant *V3 position, while at the same time
Sensitive phases in successive language acquisition 83
moving non-finite verbs to the V2 position, a feature unambiguously
characterizing L2 acquisition. Kroffke, Rothweiler, and Babur (2007) report
on similar findings in their study of two Turkish children (AOA 3 and 6)
acquiring German. The acquisition of both subject-verb agreement and
verb placement resembles aL2 acquisition in the older child, whereas in
the younger one both develop much like in L1 children.
In sum, the currently available evidence from child L2 acquisition
strongly corroborates the claim that the nature of grammatical knowledge
acquired in successive language acquisition differs from that of native L1
speakers, varying according to age of onset of acquisition. The age periods
between 3–4 and 6–7 seem to be of particular importance, in this respect. If
age of onset of acquisition happens after these age spans, child L2 acquis-
ition shares crucial properties with adult L2 acquisition, and both differ
from monolingual as well as bilingual first language development. The
grammatical features in which early child L2 resembles adult L2 acquis-
ition undoubtedly include examples from inflectional morphology, but at
least some aspects of syntax are also concerned.
6.5 Conclusions and open questions
The goal of this contribution has been to explore the fate of the species-
specific Language Making Capacity across the lifetimes of individuals and
to shed some light on the problem of how it enables them to develop
grammatical knowledge about their target languages. Starting from the
assumption that the LMC becomes available as a result of neural matura-
tion, the crucial question is whether it remains available indefinitely or
whether it needs to be activated during specific developmental periods in
order not to become inaccessible for the language learner, as predicted by
the Critical Period Hypothesis.
As far as the development of a grammatical competence in a first lan-
guage is concerned, there indeed exists strong evidence in support of the
CPH. Although the LMC has been shown to be a rather robust device
enabling learners to successfully acquire such knowledge in monolingual
or multilingual settings even under unfavorable conditions, this is only
true if age of onset of acquisition happens during early childhood. The
more controversial question is whether critical periods also characterize
successive acquisition of languages in spite of the fact that the LMC has
been activated in the course of first language development. I have argued
that this is indeed the case. i.e. the LMC does not remain fully accessible
beyond certain age ranges. More specifically, the claim is that crucial parts
of the LAD become inaccessible as a result of neural maturation, and
although language acquisition continues to be possible, L2 acquisition
differs in a number of crucial ways from L1 development. Three types of
evidence support this conclusion: (1) research investigating the ultimate
84 J Ü R G E N M . M E I S E L
attainment of L2 learners has shown that nativelike ultimate attainment is
only possible if AO happens in childhood, probably before age 8. (2) Studies
on child L2 acquisition have demonstrated that already at around AO cL2
learners differ from (2)L1 children and resemble adult L2 learners with
respect to the kind of knowledge they acquire in some grammatical
domains. (3) Brain imaging studies have found differences in activation
patterns and in the spatial organization of the brain in language process-
ing if the onset of exposure to a language falls outside the optimal period.
Although it would be premature to conclude that a causal relationship
between the changes in the functional organization of the brain and
specific types of linguistic behavior has been established beyond any
doubt, the developmental synchrony between neurological and linguistic
changes is certainly suggestive.
The research results summarized here lead to the conclusion that crit-
ical period effects resulting from maturational changes characterize both
first and second language acquisition. They do not, however, affect “lan-
guage” as a whole but only certain domains of grammar. Moreover, it is not
plausible to assume the existence of a single critical period during which
all grammatical phenomena subject to maturational changes would be
affected simultaneously. Rather, grammatical development exhibits a
number of sensitive phases. Since some of them cluster during specific
developmental phases, we can postulate the existence of several “critical
periods,” each consisting of a cluster of sensitive phases characterized by
an optimal period for the acquisition of one out of a set of grammatical
phenomena.
To conclude, I would like to single out two of the remaining open
questions as particularly important and urgent. The first one concerns
the domains of grammar subject to critical period effects. Parameterized
principles of UG have been argued to be prime candidates. Assuming this
to be correct does not, however, exclude the possibility that other areas of
grammar are affected as well. This possibility requires further investiga-
tion which should not be restricted to grammatical principles but would
also have to explore possible critical period effects affecting mechanisms
of grammatical processing. The second desideratum concerns the under-
lying maturational schedule, i.e. a principled account of which aspects of
grammar are subject to critical period effects at what point of linguistic
development. Insights into this currently poorly understood problem
would constitute a major contribution to biolinguistics.
Sensitive phases in successive language acquisition 85
7
Discovering word forms
and word meanings: The
role of phrasal prosody
and function words
Séverine Millotte, Elodie Cauvet, Perrine Brusini, and
Anne Christophe
7.1 Discovering word forms
Infants in the process of acquiring their mother tongue have to learn,
among other things, the words of this language. In order to build their
lexicon, they firstly have to find word units in the speech stream, and then
associate each word form with a meaning. In this chapter, we will discuss
these two steps of lexical acquisition, and focus more precisely on the role
of two cues: phrasal prosody and function words.
Processing oral speech in our mother tongue seems to us, adults, an
automatic and effortless task: we identify words in sentences without
difficulty and we are able to quickly compute the meaning of a sentence.
This task is more difficult when we are visiting a foreign country where
people use a language that we do not know: there, we do not hear individ-
ual words, but rather a continuous stream of syllables. At birth, the infant
is in a similar situation: he has to discover individual words where there is
only a continuous speech stream. This lexical segmentation problem is
due to the fact that there are no systematic and universal cues that would
allow listeners to clearly hear where words begin and end in sentences.
Spoken words are not delimited by silent pauses that would play a role
similar to spaces in written text. Nevertheless, it has been shown that
infants are able to segment spoken sentences and identify word forms at
a very young age, before they produce their first words: this capacity
emerges between 6 and 7.5 months of age for English-learning infants
The research reported in this chapter was supported by a grant from the French Agence Nationale pour la Recherche
(Bootstrapping language acquisition: an integrative approach; ANR-2010-BLAN-1901) to Christophe and by a Marie Curie
Intra-European Fellowship within the 6th European Community Framework Programme (No. 024843) to Millotte.
(Bortfeld et al. 2005; Jusczyk and Aslin 1995) and between 12 and 16
months of age for French-learning infants (Gout 2001; Nazzi et al. 2006;
Millotte et al. 2010); see for instance Mersad, Goyet, and Nazzi (2010), for a
discussion on these cross-linguistic differences. To figure out how infants
do manage to extract word forms from continuous speech, researchers
have focused on several types of cues that may be available early on to
infants, either because they are language-universal – common to all the
languages of the world – or because they are language-specific but can be
acquired on the basis of an analysis of whole sentences.
The main language-universal cue is the use of statistical or distributional
information. The intuition behind the use of “transitional probabilities”
between syllables or phonemes is that “sound sequences that occur fre-
quently and in a variety of contexts are better candidates for the lexicon
than those that occur rarely or in few contexts” (Brent and Cartwright
1996). The hypothesis is thus that infants might be able to compute
transition probabilities between pairs of syllables, and expect word boun-
daries to occur whenever the transition probability is low (that is, when
the next syllable is unexpected relative to what came just before).
Experimental work using an artificial language showed that 8-month-old
infants are able to infer that syllables that occur together frequently form a
word (see, for instance, Saffran, Aslin, and Newport 1996). This capacity
was demonstrated with both artificial and natural languages, by testing
English (Aslin, Saffran, and Newport 1998; Pelucchi, Hay, and Saffran
2009), Dutch (Johnson and Tyler 2010), and French 8-month-old infants
(Mersad and Nazzi 2010).
Still relying on a statistical analysis of the speech signal to extract
information about the way speech sounds typically co-occur in their
mother tongue, infants were shown to be sensitive to the phonotactic
constraints of their mother tongue: two sounds that cannot occur together
within words (such as the sequence /tf/ in French or /vt/ in English) are
considered as belonging to two different words, and 9-month-old infants
expect a word boundary between them (Friederici and Wessels 1993;
Jusczyk et al. 1993; Jusczyk, Luce, and Charles-Luce 1994; Mattys and
Jusczyk 2001). In order to acquire this knowledge, infants may have paid
attention to the sound sequences that were permissible at the beginning
and end of utterances (boundaries that are clearly marked by a silent pause
in the speech stream). Allophonic variations, which correspond to the
variations of the acoustic realization of some phonemes depending
on their position in words, can also improve the lexical segmentation
processes from 10.5 months of age (Hohne and Jusczyk 1994; Jusczyk,
Hohne, and Bauman 1999).
Another source of information that infants may have early access to is
prosody, the rhythm and intonation of speech. Prosody can help in two
ways, either because the specific rhythm of the language provides candi-
dates for potential word boundaries, or, more directly, because it delimits
Discovering word forms and word meanings 87
multi-word prosodic units and therefore gives some word boundaries. The
early rhythmic segmentation hypothesis (Nazzi et al. 2006) postulates that
infants can identify the rhythmic segmentation procedure appropriate to
the rhythmic unit of their native language (i.e. stress unit as in English,
German, and Dutch, syllable as in French, Spanish, and Korean, or mora as
in Japanese). In English, the rhythmic unit is the trochaic unit SW, that is, a
Strong syllable followed by a Weak one (85% of the lexical words begin
with a strong syllable, Cutler and Carter 1987). This rhythmic regularity
allows adults, as well as infants from 7.5 months of age, to postulate the
beginning of a word each time they hear a stressed syllable (Curtin, Mintz,
and Christiansen 2005; Echols, Crowhurst, and Childers 1997; Houston,
Santelmann, and Jusczyk 2004; Jusczyk, Houston, and Newsome 1999;
Norris, McQueen, and Cutler 1995). Young infants acquiring stress-based
languages thus consider Strong–Weak syllables in a fluent speech as whole
units, which can also lead to mis-segmentations due to a delay in the
capacity for segmenting iambic WS words (segmentation of words begin-
ning with a weak syllable was shown around 11 months of age). In French,
the rhythmic unit is the syllable and it was shown that young infants
initially segment bisyllabic words as independent syllables and not as
whole units (segmentation of bisyllabic words emerges between 12 and
16 months of age, Nazzi et al. 2006).
Regarding phrasal prosody, the hypothesis is that rhythm and intona-
tion variations delimit multi-word prosodic units, such as phonological
phrases, that typically contain one or two content words (nouns, adjec-
tives, verbs . . .) grouped together with the function words (articles, pro-
nouns, auxiliaries . . .) that are associated with them (Nespor and Vogel
1986; Shattuck-Hufnagel and Turk 1996). Even though not all word boun-
daries are marked in this way, all the word boundaries that coincide with
phonological phrase boundaries could thus be easily identified by infants.
Indeed, phonological phrases are typically marked by phrase-final length-
ening and phrase-initial strengthening, and usually consist of one intona-
tion contour with a potential pitch discontinuity at the boundary (Cho and
Keating 2001; Christophe et al. 2003; Fougeron and Keating 1997; Keating
et al. 2003; Wightman et al. 1992).
Adults were shown to infer a word boundary whenever they perceived
a phonological phrase boundary (Christophe et al. 2004; Millotte,
Frauenfelder, and Christophe 2007, in French; Salverda, Dahan, and
McQueen 2003, in Dutch). For instance, Christophe et al. (2004) demon-
strated that the potential competitor “chagrin” was not activated in “[son
gros chat] [grimpait aux arbres]” (where the two syllables of “chagrin”
appear consecutively but are separated by a phonological phrase boun-
dary, as indicated by brackets). On the other hand, participants were
slowed down when this temporary lexical ambiguity occurred within a
phonological phrase (as in “[son chat grincheux]”). For infants, some
experiments demonstrated that young English-learning infants were
88 S . M I L L O T T E , E . C A U V E T , P . B R U S I N I , A N D A . C H R I S T O P H E
able to perceive large prosodic units (i.e. intonational phrases) and to use
them in order to segment speech into words from 8 months of age (Seidl
and Johnson 2006).
To investigate the use of intermediate prosodic units (phonological
phrases), we conducted an experiment with 16-month-old French-
learning infants, using a variant of the conditioned-head-turning tech-
nique (Millotte et al. 2010). In a first session, infants were trained to turn
their head for a bisyllabic target word (e.g. “balcon” – bisyllabic group). In
a second session (one week later), infants were tested on whole experi-
mental sentences: half of them actually contained the target word (as in
“[Le grand balcon] [venait d’être détruit]”) whereas the other half con-
tained the two syllables of the target word separated by a phonological
phrase boundary (as in “[Le dernier bal] [conclura la saison]”). As repre-
sented in Figure 7.1, infants trained to turn their head for the bisyllabic
word “balcon” responded more often to “balcon-sentences” than to “bal-
sentences.” The reverse pattern was observed for infants trained to turn
their head for the monosyllabic target “bal” (monosyllabic group), who
responded more often to “bal-sentences” than to “balcon-sentences.”
At 16 months of age, French-learning infants are thus able to use the
presence of a phonological phrase boundary to infer the presence of a
word boundary (see also Gout, Christophe, and Morgan 2004 for similar
results with 10- and 13-month-old English learning infants; and Johnson
2008).
In addition to all these cues that are available from an analysis of the
speech stream, young infants can also rely on their first known words:
thus, very familiar and frequent words, such as “mommy”/“maman,”
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Monosyllabic group
"bal" target
Bisyllabic group
"balcon" target
47,7
21,7
27,0
44,2
Mean
percentage
of
head-turns
Monosyllabic
sentences
bal-sentences
Bisyllabic
sentences
balcon-sentences
Figure 7.1 Mean percentage of head-turns for 16-month-old French infants in the bisyllabic
group and in the monosyllabic group to sentences containing the bisyllabic word and
sentences containing its two syllables separated by a phonological phrase boundary (ﬁgure
adapted from Millotte et al. 2010).
Discovering word forms and word meanings 89
allow 6-month-olds to segment words that occur right after them (Bortfeld
et al. 2005; Mersad and Nazzi 2010). Similarly, infants were shown to rely
on their knowledge of the function words of their mother tongue (articles,
auxiliaries, pronouns, etc.) to segment neighbouring content words
(Christophe et al. 1997). Young infants were shown to know something
about the function words of their native language before the end of their
first year of life (Shi and Gauthier 2005; Shi, Werker, and Cutler 2006) and
are able to use the presence of a function word to identify a content word
that immediately follows it (Hallé, Durand, and De Boysson-Bardies 2008;
Shi and Lepage 2008).
After this first step of lexical acquisition has been solved, young infants
are dealt another challenging task: they have to assign a meaning to the
word forms they have identified. Once again, we will show that phrasal
prosody, together with function words, may be useful.
7.2 Discovering word meanings
Assigning a meaning to a word is not an easy task. One could think that
infants only need to associate what they hear with what they see. Even if
the lexical segmentation problem is solved, however, it is very difficult
to infer what a word precisely refers to. Does “cat” refer to the animal he
is looking at, or its ears, its colour, or the fact that it is mewing? This is
the well-known problem of the multiplicity of possible meanings of a
word (Quine 1960). Moreover, we do not necessarily talk about what is
taking place here and now, we also speak about past and future, about
things or persons that are not present . . . Discovering word meanings is
thus a difficult problem, that could be facilitated if infants were able to
analyze the syntactic structures in which words appear (Gillette et al.
1999; Gleitman 1990). However, for syntactic knowledge to help lexical
acquisition, infants have to be able to acquire it before they learn many
words.
The syntactic category of words is the simplest cue that could constrain
word meaning. Indeed, nouns typically refer to objects, whereas verbs
generally refer to actions and adjectives to properties. Function words,
which are known around 8 months of age (Shi and Gauthier 2005; Shi,
Werker, and Cutler 2006), could help young infants to categorize words:
thus, articles are generally followed by nouns whereas pronouns typically
appear before verbs. Some experiments have established that adults were
able to use these co-occurrences in order to infer that a nonword such as
“bamoule” is a noun when preceded by an article, as in “une bamoule,”
whereas it was considered as a verb when preceded by a pronoun, as in
“je bamoule” (Millotte et al. 2006). What about young infants?
Recent studies have demonstrated that young infants know something
about the categories of function words. For instance, 14-month-old
90 S . M I L L O T T E , E . C A U V E T , P . B R U S I N I , A N D A . C H R I S T O P H E
French-learning infants expect a nonword heard in the context of two
determiners to be preceded by another determiner, rather than by a
pronoun (Shi and Melançon 2010). English-learning 18-month-olds were
also found to identify a known noun faster when it was preceded by a
determiner, than by an incorrect function word such as an auxiliary (they
oriented faster towards the picture depicting the noun; Kedar, Casasola, and
Lust 2006; Zangl and Fernald 2007). In addition, French-learning 18-month-
olds seem to know that nouns should be preceded by articles (and not
by pronouns), whereas verbs should be preceded by pronouns (rather than
by articles). Thus, in a variant of the conditioned head-turning procedure
similar to the one described in Figure 7.1, a target verb was recognized when
it appeared in a correct syntactic context, that is, preceded by a personal
pronoun (e.g. “je mange”/I eat) but not when it appeared in an incorrect
syntactic context, preceded by a determiner (e.g. * “une mange”/* an eat)
(Cauvet et al. 2010; Cauvet et al., to appear). A similar result was also found
with 2-year-old French children by using more complex syntactic contexts
(Bernal et al. 2010).
Furthermore, it has been demonstrated that 23-month-old French chil-
dren were able not only to infer the syntactic category of novel words (with
the help of their preceding function words), but also to exploit this knowl-
edge in order to assign a meaning to these novel words. Bernal et al. (2007)
presented videos of an object that was performing an action (for instance,
an apple rotating) while at the same time infants were taught a new word
(for instance, “dase”) by listening to spoken sentences. The experimental
group (verb group) was taught a new verb with sentences like “Regarde,
elle dase !”/Look, it is dasing!, whereas infants from the control group (noun
group) were taught a new noun with sentences like “Regarde, une dase !”/
Look, a dase! After this familiarization phase, both groups watched two
videos depicting the familiar object (e.g. the apple) performing either the
familiar action (e.g. rotating) or a novel action (e.g. jumping). Infants were
asked to point towards one video, hearing either: “Montre-moi celle qui
dase”/Show me the one that’s dasing (for the verb group) or “Montre-moi une
dase”/Show me a dase (for the noun group). As represented in Figure 7.2,
infants who were taught a new verb pointed more often at the familiar
action than at the novel one. This was not a simple familiarity preference
since infants who were taught a new noun showed the reverse pattern,
with more responses to the novel action than to the familiar one (a typical
novelty preference).
Since the only difference between conditions was the syntactic structure
in which the new word appeared (e.g. “une dase”/a dase versus “elle dase”/it
is dasing), we can conclude that 23-month-old French infants were able to
use the syntactic structures in which the new word occurred (and in
particular the preceding function word) in order to infer its syntactic
category (e.g. noun versus verb) and thus gather some information as to
its meaning (here, object versus action).
Discovering word forms and word meanings 91
In many sentences heard by infants in everyday life, nouns and verbs
are not always directly preceded by function words (as in the preceding
experiment). For instance, nouns can be preceded by an adjective (as in
“une petite pomme”/a small apple) whereas verbs can be preceded by a
noun phrase (as in “la fille mange”/the girl is eating). Even in these more
complex syntactic contexts, we postulate that young infants could per-
form the same kind of syntactic categorization. To do this, infants would
again use function words and phrasal prosody simultaneously. Indeed, in
addition to corresponding to word boundaries, phonological phrase
boundaries strongly depend on the syntactic structure of the sentence.
As a result, they generally coincide with syntactic phrase boundaries
(Nespor and Vogel 1986). We know that French adults are able to exploit
online these prosodic boundaries to constrain the syntactic analysis of
spoken sentences and resolve a temporary syntactic ambiguity (Millotte
et al. 2008; Millotte, Wales, and Christophe 2007; see also Kjelgaard and
Speer 1999, for English). If we consider a sentence such as “le petit garçon
a mangé une grosse pomme”/the little boy has eaten a big apple, young
infants may initially construct the following syntactic representation:
“[le xxxx]NP [a xx]VP [une xx]NP” where syntactic boundaries would be
given by prosodic boundaries (as indicated by brackets) and where the
labelling of the syntactic constituents (e.g. noun phrase, verb phrase . . .)
would be given by function words (i.e. articles signal the beginning of a
noun phrase whereas auxiliaries typically start a verb phrase). This syn-
tactic skeleton could be constructed even without any knowledge of the
content words that composed the sentence (in this example, nouns,
verbs, and adjectives are represented by the number of their constitutive
syllables, noted x) and thus could guide the first steps of syntactic acquis-
ition (Christophe et al. 2008).
Familar action
(apple rotating)
New action
(apple jumping)
Mean
number
of
pointing
responses
1,3
3,5
Experimental group
(verb group)
Control group
(noun group)
5
4
3
2
1
0
3,1
1,7
Figure 7.2 Mean percentage of pointing responses from 23-month-old French infants in the
verb group and in the noun group towards videos depicting the familiar action and a new
action (ﬁgure adapted from Bernal et al. 2007).
92 S . M I L L O T T E , E . C A U V E T , P . B R U S I N I , A N D A . C H R I S T O P H E
Even if this working hypothesis needs to be directly tested on young
infants, it is supported by some results obtained with French adults pro-
cessing jabberwocky sentences (where content words were replaced by
nonwords and where only phrasal prosody and function words were pre-
served). For instance, they were able to infer that a nonword, such as
“pirdale” was a verb in “[un gouminet] [pirdale tigou]” (Millotte et al.
2006). To do this, they might have (1) used phonological phrase boundaries
to delimit syntactic constituents (“[un gouminet] [pirdale. . .”), (2) inferred
that the first syntactic constituent was a noun phrase after recognizing the
article “un” (“[un gouminet]NP [pirdale. . .”), and (3) hypothesized that the
following constituent was most probably a verb phrase. As a result, they
might have elaborated the following syntactic skeleton “[un gouminet]NP
[pirdale tigou]VP” and correctly inferred that the nonword “pirdale” was a
verb.
The syntactic skeleton hypothesis appears realistic: during their second
year of life, infants do not have access yet to a full-fledged lexicon; on the
other hand, it is well established that, at this age, they already know much
about the function words (Shi and Gauthier 2005; Shi, Werker, and Cutler
2006) and the prosody of their mother tongue (Millotte et al. 2010; Nazzi
et al. 2000; Soderstrom et al. 2003). With these two sources of information,
infants may thus be able to construct a first syntactic representation of the
sentences they hear, which would help them to continue developing their
lexicon, find word meanings, and finally comprehend sentence meanings.
Discovering word forms and word meanings 93
8
Luria’s biolinguistic
suggestion and the
growth of language
Ken Wexler
8.1 Luria’s biolinguistic suggestion
The human language faculty is a species-specific ability rooted in the
human genome.1
At the current stage of scientific inquiry, such a state-
ment is unexceptionable. Language grows in the brain; this is also unex-
ceptionable. In these respects, language is like any other species-specific
faculty, e.g. the bat’s capacity for sonar. What is so intriguing about human
language is that it is the “knowledge” level of language, the nature of the
computations and representations, that is inherited and grows in the
individual’s lifespan.
Language is extremely complex, though simple in its underlying prin-
ciples. One might despair at the possibility of understanding the matura-
tion of language in scientific terms, given this complexity. Certainly the
difficulties and general lack of progress in understanding the maturation
of other cognitive abilities would not at first glance bode well for the
study of the maturation of language. Consider for example the most
famous example for the last quarter of a century of immature knowledge
of a piece of cognition in children – difficulties in so-called Theory of
Mind (Wimmer and Perner 1983 and a large subsequent literature), the
evidence coming from poor performance in certain tasks involving false
belief. Despite the large number of experimental confirmations of the
difficulties,2
there is to date no reasonable account of how these abilities
mature and no reasonably wide-ranging account of what is delayed in
children.
Yet in the area of the knowledge level of language, the “computational
system (CS)” in Chomsky’s terms, we are at a far more advanced stage in
understanding the maturation of language. We have theories that tie
together large numbers of phenomena in an intriguing way, with unex-
ceptionable and extremely clear and precise data, and progress made
continuously. We will discuss several of these pieces of maturation in
this chapter. But first we might ask why the differences between language
and cognition are so large in this regard. Why is it possible for studies in
the development of language to make such progress, to be clear in their
outlines, and account for much data, whereas theories of the development
of cognition seem almost as primitive as they were 50 or more years ago?
The answer is clear – it lies in the quote from the distinguished biologist
Salvador Luria that the editors used to help to justify the creation of a hand-
book of Biolinguistics. Luria (1976) argued for the possibility of the creation
of a “Biolinguistics” and gave two reasons for “singling out this field.”
First, human language is the special faculty through which all conscious
human activity is filtered; a faculty whose development may well have
played the driving role in the almost catastrophic evolution from ape-kind
to humankind. And second, language alone, among the uniquely human
faculties of the human brain, offers to the scientist a systematic theory, the
structural linguistics developed by Chomsky and his colleagues, which may
be amenable to confrontation with biological data. What I mean is that
formal language structure, plus some facts already known about language
and brain structure, plus the advancing knowledge of brain organization
provided by physiologists, hold some promise that between linguistics and
neurobiology a kind of convergence may soon be possible that may provide
a wedge into the biological exploration of the human mind.
The second reason is probably enough to show why studies in the
maturation of language have made progress, whereas the maturation of
other aspects of cognition has had a more difficult time. If Luria could
realize in 1976 that language has “a systematic theory,” consider how
much more true that claim is now. The scope and precision of linguistic
theory has grown remarkably in those 35 years. It is indeed the precise and
elegant theory, together with its wide-reaching empirical import, that has
made possible the investigations into linguistic maturation by a serious
group of experimental scientists. The coming together of the theory of
language with developmental psycholinguistics is to my mind the most
exciting development in cognitive science in the last quarter century.
What does the general conceptual basis of language maturation look like?
Very traditional, like the maturation of other biological properties, at least
those properties that have systematic, clean descriptions, what Marr (1977)
called results in “Type 1” theories,3
giving linguistic theory as a prototype for
that type of theory in cognitive science.4
Type 1 theories “decompose” in
elegant ways. Marr says that Type 1 results behave “like a result in mathe-
maticsorany ofthehardnaturalsciences.”Inthisrespect,LuriaandMarrsaw
thenatureoflinguisticsasbeingwhatwashopedforinahardnaturalscience.
For example, there is an elegant, clean physiological description of the
heart. One can imagine a theory of cardiac development, perhaps taking
place in the womb, perhaps partially after birth, that understands the matu-
ration of various pieces, and perhaps this theory of maturation extends
beyond the heart, to other organs. Since there is a theory of the component
Luria’s biolinguistic suggestion and the growth of language 95
parts, and how these function together, there can be a developmental theory
that relates to these parts. Just such a theory is possible in the case of
language.
Lenneberg (1967) famously argued for the existence of a biologically
driven development of language, on analogy with other instances of bio-
logical development. He mustered facts from the small amount that was
known in detail about linguistic development at that time, for example the
existence of the one-word stage and the two-word stage to draw the devel-
opmental analogies between language and other parts of biology. The fact
that his arguments were often conceptual and that he had not many
detailed results to go on from studies of linguistic development led
Wexler (2003) to (admiringly) call his proposals “Lenneberg’s Dream.” A
dream that correctly speculated on a deep reality.
At an even more conceptual level, we have Luria’s proposal, partially
quoted above. It’s hard to think of an aspect of language that should more
readily fit into this proposal than the study of the development of lan-
guage, development being at the heart of how biology works. In this
chapter I’d like to discuss the current state of the study of linguistic
maturation, in particular asking how well it exemplifies what I’ll call
“Luria’s Biolinguistic Suggestion.” The suggestion has many parts. One
central aspect of Luria’s proposal seems to be that the study of language
“may be amenable to confrontation with biological data.” Therefore we
will ask, to what extent is the study of linguistic maturation so amenable?
Luria also suggested that “between linguistics and neurobiology a kind
of convergence may soon be possible that may provide a wedge into the
biological exploration of the human mind.” We should therefore look at
the language aspects of the human mind, of course, in our case from a
developmental perspective. When the ordinary person thinks of the
human mind, he or she often thinks of “concepts” under some meaning.
So we should also ask, to what extent is there a convergence between
linguistics, neurobiology, and development that provides a wedge into the
biological study of cognition.
First, we’ll review a small, selective number of results in the study of the
maturation of language, to illustrate its present state. We’ll ask the ques-
tion about “confrontation with biological data,” illustrating with some
results. We’ll then try to look at the possibility of a wedge into the bio-
logical study of the human mind, looking at what is possible in the study of
the biology of cognition.
8.2 Grammatical computation in the optional
inﬁnitive stage
From the standpoint of confrontation of a real linguistic structure with
one very important aspect of “biological data,” namely genetic data,
96 K E N W E X L E R
probably the most developed instance is early (until about age 3) syntactic
computation resulting in phenomena that go under the name of the
“Optional Infinitive (OI) Stage.” The related set of phenomena may also
be the most widely and intensely studied in generative acquisition
research, with many responses from outside the generative field. Wexler
(2011) has recently reviewed much of the current state of this field, so here
I want to prove only a very brief reminder, illustrating the wide-ranging
empirical success of the maturational account, and discussing the “con-
frontation with biological data” in this field. I will provide an informal
account throughout.
Children in many languages go through an “Optional Infinitive” stage
(Wexler 1990, 1992, 1994). Among a large array of related phenomena
characteristic of this stage, the most famous is the existence of large
numbers of productions of non-finite forms, what I have called “infiniti-
val” forms. At the same time, the child will produce finite forms as well.
Thus the “Optional” Infinitive stage. The most important aspect of the
existence of these optional infinitives (OI’s) is that the child is not confused
about the morphology or the syntax; the finite forms produced are truly
finite and the non-finite forms produced are truly non-finite. Given the
child’s knowledge of syntax, the finite forms show the appropriate syntax
for finite verbs, and the non-finite forms show the appropriate syntax for
non-finite verbs.
To illustrate, consider Dutch, a Verb-second (V2) language, in which the
verb is generated to the right of the object (VP is head final). When the OI-
stage child in Dutch produces a finite verb, it is essentially always in 2nd
position and when she produces a non-finite verb it is essentially always in
final position. (1) shows some examples (from the literature) and the table
in (2) shows data for 47 children from Wexler, Schaeffer, and Boll (2004),5
ages 1;7 to 3;7.6
(1) a. pappa schoenen wassen
daddy shoes wash-INF
“Daddy wash (non-finite) shoes”
b. ik pak ‘t op
I pick it up
“I pick (fin) it up”
In (1a) the verb is an infinitival and it appears in final position. In (1b) the
verb is finite and appears in 2nd position. This turns out to be quite a
general pattern.
(2)
V1/V2 Vfinal
Finite 1953 11
Non-finite 20 606
Luria’s biolinguistic suggestion and the growth of language 97
Results like this are typical in this field, although this table represents
one of the larger studies. The generalization is not a “tendency” – it is
essentially categorical, a law of nature.
There is an extremely large set of phenomena that are characteristic of
this early grammatical stage and that must be incorporated into a model
of the stage. The phenomena include not only word order phenomena of
the kind illustrated above, but also particular properties of syntactic case,
including errors, properties of interpretation, of auxiliaries as opposed to
main verbs and questions of where in the construction the properties of
non-finiteness may occur. For example, it is not true, as has sometimes
been claimed, that only “root” phenomena are implicated. One illustra-
tion is the omission of to in embedded infinitivals at this age (Roberts
1997; Norris 2000). A review of this and a good deal of other evidence is in
Wexler (2011).
At the same time, INFL-licensed null-subject languages, e.g. Italian,
Spanish, don’t go through the OI stage, the Null-Subject Optional Infinitive
(NSOI) Generalization (Wexler 1998a).7
To illustrate with another large-
scale study, Caprin and Guasti (2009) studied 59 Italian children from 22
to 35 months of age. Only about 1%, perhaps less, of the 2,145 main verbs
were infinitival. Wexler (2011) compared a young group from the Dutch
data of Wexler, Schaeffer, and Bol (2004) to a group of comparable age
from Caprin and Guasti’s study and showed that the Dutch children had an
OI rate of 64% whereas the same-aged Italian children had an OI rate of
<3%. There is nothing about the surface morphology of the two languages
that would lead to such a result.
Thus the setting of the null-subject parameter for a language determines
whether some typical OI behaviors occur in the language or not. Whatever
causes the OI stage must be present in children who speak null-subject
languages. We know this because we know that a child’s grammatical
capacities will illustrate what’s expected in the language she learns. A
child of Italian heritage growing up in a Dutch-speaking environment
will develop Dutch, and will go through the OI stage. If such a child grew
up in an Italian-speaking environment, she would not go through the OI
stage. The model of the stage must explain all this.
The model that best explains all the phenomena is the Unique Checking
Constraint model (Wexler 1998a). Both agreement (AGR) and tense (TNS)
must be checked by DP in many languages, for example, Dutch. This
double checking is what is forbidden by the UCC. The child finds this
double-checking ungrammatical.
(3) Unique Checking Constraint (on OI-age children, i.e. until about 3 years):
A DP can check only one D-feature.
A Dutch-speaking child whose grammar must follow the UCC can’t gram-
matically derive a simple finite sentence. The child adopts a strategy to
allow sentences to be generated. Otherwise all sentences would be
98 K E N W E X L E R
ungrammatical, and the child couldn’t speak grammatically (according to
her own grammar) at all. Although we might assume that the child knows
that AGR and TNS must exist in a sentence, she omits one of them from the
grammatical representation so that the UCC isn’t violated, resulting in the
possible generation of a grammatical sentence. This AGR or TNS omission
results in the ATOM (AGR/TNS Omission Model – see Schütze and Wexler
1996) holding for the young child. Many predictions about, for example,
subject case follow.
The UCC immediately explains NS/OI, for example, why Italian doesn’t
exhibit the OI stage on its verbs, rendering the option of non-finite rather
than finite verbs possible in simple clauses for the Italian-speaking child.
Since the existence of INFL-licensed null-subjects means that agreement
(which we can think of as a functional category, although this might not be
necessary) is interpretable, the conclusion is that Italian does not require
that Agreement be checked by the subject. That is, the EPP does not hold
for AGR in Italian and other INFL-licensed null-subject languages. Such a
conclusion immediately fits the conclusions reached by Romance syndi-
cations (e.g. Barbosa 1995; Alexiadou and Anagnostopoulou 1998) who
argue that in the Romance null-subject languages, the subject does not
raise high except in special semantic conditions; syntax itself (the EPP)
does not require high raising.
Since AGR isn’t checked by the subject DP, only TNS must have its
subject checked. The necessity of only one checking implies that the
UCC isn’t violated, and no functional category (AGR, TNS) should be omit-
ted by the child. There is no motivation for this strategy. The Italian-
speaking child, therefore, produces finite sentences, as does an adult.
There is no OI stage as determined by infinitival main verbs in the Italian
child. This is NS/OI.
But the basic biology of UCC must exist in the Italian child. If she were
developing Dutch, she would go through the OI stage. We therefore should
expect to find other phenomena that reflect the UCC in Italian children.
And indeed we do. Auxiliary omission is one of them.8
The most striking
UCC phenomenon in Italian, though, is probably object clitic omission,
which has been known for a long time to occur a great deal in Italian, but
which does not occur in Spanish (Wexler, Gavarró, and Torrens 2004;
Gavarró, Torrens, and Wexler 2010), or Greek (Tsakali and Wexler 2004).
As these papers together with the model in Wexler (1998a) explain, the
UCC derives both clitic omission and the difference between languages
that have different parameter settings (we have not discussed here what
the parameter is that relates to clitics; see the papers).
The UCC is a computational constraint; a constraint on how the child’s
computational system of grammar works, a grammatical constraint, com-
putational in the sense of Chomsky’s use of the notion “CS,” “computa-
tional system [of grammar]” to indicate the underlying grammatical
capacity of a human (at the computational level of analysis). It interacts
Luria’s biolinguistic suggestion and the growth of language 99
with parameter-settings derived by a child from experience to produce
strikingly different linguistic behaviors in different languages. The UCC, as
a computational constraint, is also a biological constraint, a biological
entity, described at the computational level of analysis.
The UCC disappears slowly as the child ages, in the same manner as a
first set of teeth are lost by a child, over time, some teeth going before
others, according to a genetic predisposition whose time course varies
somewhat over children, but, except for pathological cases, holds. The
genetic system of the child has a good deal of influence on causing the
disappearance of first teeth and the UCC, but the causes may possibly
apply through intermediary factors. For example, possibly it isn’t genes
directly acting on teeth telling them to be lost; rather it may be that genes
only provide a certain amount of strength for teeth, and they’ll be lost as a
matter of physical necessity once their properties have been set by genes.
Or it may be that the interaction of the first set of teeth with other physical
structures in the child has an influence on the loss of teeth. Similarly for
the UCC. The causes of its loss may be directly genetics (genes determine a
time course) or there may be intermediary explanatory models that cause
the loss. Whatever it is, there are ultimately genes at play, just as there are
for teeth. We are in the realm of biology.
8.3 The UCC: The biology of the matter
Can we use the results generated in this field of developmental psycholin-
guistics to help cash out Luria’s Biolinguistic Suggestion? What about the
“confrontation with biological data”? Naturally, it depends on what we
mean by “biological data.” The data we’ve briefly illustrated are develop-
mental data, strongly connected to linguistic theory, but nevertheless
development data. Since development is at the heart of biology, surely
these data should count as biological data. Biology has huge reams of
similar data over many fields.
But one might imagine that Luria had a stronger hope in mind. Perhaps he
hoped that the study of language might interact with the type of data that
biologists have gathered already or in different fields, data that they recog-
nize as the type that they study. To meet this stronger interpretation of
Luria’s Suggestion, the biological data in question should relate directly to
familiar biological concepts, concepts worked out through years of research.
Development is perhaps too generic – what view of biology wouldn’t allow
for development, a very familiar everyday concept? We need instead, a more
highly refined concept from biology to satisfy Luria’s suggestion, a concept
that biology struggled to attain and find evidence for. Luria suggests that
perhaps “physiology” could be such a concept, or rather, the details of
physiology. We’ll return to this suggestion, but I would like to propose an
even more natural suggestion, that the study of genetics might provide an
100 K E N W E X L E R
appropriate model for the integration of the two fields, creating a
Biolinguistics. This is natural because the conceptual foundations of lan-
guage actually speak of the inheritance of language ability as a species-
specific ability. The foundations of linguistics are genetic.
The model proposed in many papers since Wexler (1996, 2003) is that
the OI stage is a genetically based developmental stage. That is, the genetic
system helps to determine not only the nature of language but also its
developmental course. There is a great deal of evidence deduced for this
hypothesis in the literature. It includes the following:
(4) (1) Since such a huge amount of data presented to the child is finite,
i.e. tensed, why does the child go out of the way to make her
sentences mostly non-finite at first, especially when in many
languages this makes a more complicated surface morphology?
(2) Moreover, the child shows brilliant plasticity in learning the cor-
rect parameters of clause structure (VO/OV order, V to TNS, V2,
null-subject parameter, wh in situ/moved parameter) that it is hard
to see how a learning problem could cause the child to think that
sentences should be non-finite. In the light of brilliant mapping of
experience, why should the child fail to learn what should be so
easy? (See Wexler 2011 for a detailed critique of a recent attempt
to account for the OI stage as a product of “learning.” Such a
proposal mis-predicts central phenomena of the OI stage.)
(3) There are known variables that influence “learning” e.g. richness
of input such as “Mother’s Degree of Education.” Vocabulary size,
for example, is heavily influenced by such variables. Nevertheless,
these variables do not influence the development of finiteness
(Rice, Wexler, and Hershberger 1998).
(4) Rates of finiteness development are continuous; it’s not a one-step
process of “learning” a particular piece of knowledge. This type of
continuity is characteristic of maturational processes, e.g. a set of
teeth don’t come in all at once, but grow.
(5) The child in the OI stage produces many structures that she hasn’t
heard, that are not part of adult English, but that follow from her
genetically determined grammar.
(6) Specific Language Impairment in English and many other lan-
guages is characterized by an Extended Optional Infinitive (EOI)
stage. It looks as if SLI is a delayed maturation of the system (Rice,
Wexler and Cleave 1995; Wexler 1996, 2003 among many others.
See Borer and Wexler 1987 for the first hypothesis of maturation
in modern grammatical development studies.).
(7) The OI (UCC) stage could not be a “learning a language” phenom-
enon, since there is no conceptual basis for that. Moreover, and
strikingly, L2 learners past the youngest ages do not go through an
OI stage.
Luria’s biolinguistic suggestion and the growth of language 101
8.4 Is the OI stage simply an effect of learning a language?
Evidence from second language acquisition
I can’t review the rich evidence summarized in (4). Let’s just consider a bit
of the evidence for point (7) of (4) – the non-existence of the OI stage in 2nd
language acquisition, since I believe that these phenomena may not be as
well known as some of the others. Could it be that the properties of the OI
(UCC) stage flow from the fact that the language has to be learned? Is this a
“learning” phenomenon? It’s very hard to see how that could be, given that
a central property (the existence of large numbers of non-finite root sen-
tences, the omission of INFL categories) are contradicted by the input data.
One cannot think of an even barely adequate model that would give the
existence of the OI stage as a “learning” phenomenon.9
Nevertheless, there
is a clear prediction from the biological/growth/maturation model that
past the youngest (OI) age levels, there should be no OI stage when a 2nd
language is learned. For example, adults shouldn’t go through the OI stage.
This is such an obvious prediction, yet just the kind of prediction that is
rarely tested from either point of view in the study of language acquisition
or even of development in general, in any precise sense. I recall Gary
Marcus asking just that question at a plenary talk I gave at the Boston
University Child Language Development conference several years ago, and
the impression that I had that he was startled by the answer I gave – that
the experiments had been done and came out on the side of the biology/
growth model – L2 learning does not show the OI stage. And the opposite
point (the expectation that the phenomena of L1 and L2 acquisition should
be identical) is so ingrained in scholars (I believe because of the lack of
understanding of biology and development and even of the growth basis of
the conceptual foundations of linguistics theory) that the unmarked
assumption always seems to be the wrong one – that L1 and L2 acquisition
are identical. Rather, we should expect L1 and L2 acquisition to differ – the
species undergoing the learning is at a different developmental stage in
the two processes.
Thus, White (1996) argued that the existence of optional infinitives in L2
showed in fact that – contra to (my) claims – the existence of the OI stage
could not be a growth/maturation phenomenon. This logic was right, the
analysis was wrong. The standard assumption of so many scholars, that
there is nothing interesting about development, that there is no biological
fact of the matter, made it difficult to see that the OI stage demanded much
more in the way of evidence than a few morphologically wrong verbs. So
much for Luria’s Suggestion. The far too ubiquitous assumption of the lack
of biology underpinning language (totally at odds with the conceptual
foundations as originally argued by Chomsky) not only misses perhaps
the most important point of linguistic theory, and the underpinning of
Biolinguistics, but gets the analysis wrong.
102 K E N W E X L E R
To see why, we have to look at some data. It’s true that L2 learners use
non-finite main verbs. But they often use these verbs in the position that a
finite verb should occupy. This is exactly what a native L1 learner at a
young (OI) age does not do. We have seen, for example, the strikingly clear
relation in Dutch OI stage grammars between finiteness and 2nd position,
on the one hand and non-finiteness and final position on the other (2).
Such behavior, such data tables, are not characteristic of L2 acquisition.
Prevost and White (1999) for example, found that adults learning German
(another V2 language, similar to Dutch in essential respects) often put
infinitival verbs in 2nd position. Let’s look at some data (5) from Prevost
and White. The two learners of French were native speakers of Moroccan
Arabic and the two learners of German were native speakers of Spanish
(Ana) and Portuguese (Zita).
In order to make very clear comparisons between L1 and L2, in (5, 6)
I’ve taken tables from several papers and put them in equivalent tabular
form. We’ll use the L1 Dutch data from (2), repeated here in (5a) as a
comparison for the German L2, as the relevant facts of development in
these 2 V2/SOV languages are the same and we’ll use the data from Pierce
(1992), as summarized in Wexler (1998b), as the L1 comparison (6a) for
the learning of L2 French. (5b,c) and (6b,c) are adapted from Prevost and
White’s Table 3.
(5)
a.
Finite
context
Non-finite
context
%Finite
context
Finite verb 1953 11 99.4
Non-finite
verb
20 606 3.0
%Non-finite
verb
1.1 98.2
Dutch children (OI stage)
b.
Finite
context
Non-finite
context
%Finite
context
Finite verb 389 7 98.2
Non-finite
verb
45 76 37.2
%Non-finite
verb
10.4 91.6
Ana (L2 German)
Luria’s biolinguistic suggestion and the growth of language 103
c.
Finite
context
Non-finite
context
%Finite
context
Finite verb 434 6 98.6
Non-finite
verb
85 98 46.4
%Non-finite
verb
16.4 94.2
Zita (L2 German)
(6)
a.
Finite
context
Non-finite
context
%Finite
context
Finite verb 185 11 94.4
Non-finite
verb
2 77 2.5
%Non-Finite
verb
1.1 87.5
French Children (OI Stage)
b.
Finite
context
Non-finite
context
%Finite
context
Finite verb 767 23 97.0
Non-finite
verb
243 278 46.6
%Non-finite
verb
24.0 92.4
Abdelmalek (L2 French)
c.
Finite
context
Non-finite
context
%Finite
context
Finite verb 755 2 99.7
Non-finite
verb
224 156 58.9
%Non-Finite
verb
22.9 98.7
Zahra (L2 French)
104 K E N W E X L E R
For Dutch/German (5), we only have V1/V2 as “finite” contexts, so there
might be small differences from Prevost and White’s L2 data set, which
might have a few other productions (e.g. embedded sentences), plus the
infinitives will allow expected infinitives, as we discussed.
The largest difference between the L2 and L1 tables is how often the L2
learners use non-finite sentences in finite contexts. Ana (5b) in some ways
is the most advanced L2 learner, as she only uses infinitives in 10.4% of her
finite contexts. Still this is far larger than the 1.1% of infinitival usage in
finite contexts in the large group of OI-age Dutch children (5a). Ana does
better in non-finite contexts, 91.6% of those contexts see a non-finite verb
used. Nevertheless, even this is worse than L1 monolingual children, who
have a 98.2% correct usage.
Zita, the second L2 learner of German (5c), uses 16.4% infinitivals in
finite contexts, even larger than Ana’s and much larger than the OI child-
ren’s 1.1%. Her use of infinitivals in non-finite contexts is 94.2%, so she is
quite a bit better there than on finite contexts.
So the two L2 German learners very much overuse infinitives in finite
positions, that is their big error, and that is something that the OI children
almost never do.
Turning to French, the Pierce data in (6a) is based upon finite contexts
being ones in which the verb precedes negation pas/not. Finite verbs in
French raise to Tense, and non-finites don’t raise, so only finite verbs must
precede pas and non-finite verbs must follow pas. The L2 data might have a
few productions in which finite/non-finite contexts are a bit different, e.g.
for the infinitivals, when they occur in some grammatical positions. These
were not included in Pierce’s analysis. Nevertheless, the crucial points are
not affected by this difference.
The French OI children only produce 1.1% infinitivals in finite contexts
(i.e. preceding pas). This vanishingly small number accidentally turns out
to be equivalent to the Dutch children’s use of infinitives in finite contexts.
This number is perhaps best thought of as the “error rate.”
Turning to L2 French, Abdelmalek (6b) uses 24.0% of infinitives in finite
positions. This is huge. Not only is it huge compared to 1.1% for the OI
children, but it is unheard of in the very large OI literature, where infin-
itives are overused so infrequently. It’s a signature of L2. Notice this large
number isn’t an accidental statistical result of small numbers. Abdelmalek
has about 1,000 utterances that are measured in the table.
Zahra, the second L2 French learner, confirms the result. She has 22.9%
use of infinitives in finite contexts, again out of almost 1,000 utterances.
Both French and German learners are using large numbers of infinitives in
finite contexts.
Abdelmalek and Zahra have 92.4% and 98.7% use of infinitivals in infini-
tival contexts, respectively, so like the German L2 learners, they are much
better at using infinitives in non-finite contexts than at using finite verbs
in finite contexts.
Luria’s biolinguistic suggestion and the growth of language 105
We should be careful, however, before strongly drawing the conclusion
from this data that L2 learners will mostly correctly use infinitives after pas
in French and in final clause position in root sentences in German/Dutch.
This is because the L2 tables we’ve looked at include infinitives in other
contexts, acceptable infinitives.
The L2 use of infinitives is not the same as the L1 use of infinitives, as all
authors on the topic after the White paper I mentioned above have agreed.
The idea has been presented in Haznedar and Schwartz (1997), Prevost and
White (1999) (the Missing Surface Inflection Hypothesis) and other places.
Here’s a simple model of the L2 behavior, to a first approximation. L2
learners have UG, the computational system of language. This is the
most natural assumption. After all, they use this system to produce and
understand sentences all the time. Many of these sentences are new to
them, used in unusual situations, etc. They need to have an active set of
principles to use their language.
What, then, is different about L2 learners? The most obvious, simple
assumption is that they have reduced plasticity, the ability for their brain
to change in systematic ways given experience. Experimental studies (e.g.
Johnson and Newport 1989) make it clear if a 2nd language learner starts to
learn the language after a certain age (about puberty, perhaps a bit longer)
then she is very likely to not get the grammar right. It’s not the computa-
tional system that she’s missing, according to this model. Rather it’s
difficult to learn the correct language-particular facts about the language.
There are large numbers of examples. One simple one is plurality. If the
learner’s native language doesn’t mark plurality on nouns, then it is very
difficult for an adult L2 learner to get this right in an L2 that does mark
plurality. It’s not that the L2 learner can’t count. Rather, the plasticity of
the linguistic ability with respect to what must come from experience
(does it mark plurality or not) is lacking or greatly reduced.
So the L2 learner in the finiteness case has difficulty learning morphol-
ogy of tense and agreement on a verb, the spelling out of these values.
Perhaps effort goes into the learning of the “citation” form, which is
usually the infinitival form, the form one sees in standard dictionaries. If
the learner has learned this citation form, but has not learned, or has
forgotten, the finite form she is trying to recall, it is natural to use the
infinitive as a “default.” The idea is that it is what the learner recalls, and
doesn’t put in extra features that are perhaps wrong, etc. Intuitively,
imagine learning the verbs of a language on a flash card, that is, one learns,
for example parler = speak. If you don’t recall the agreement paradigm,
which also has to be learned, you might say Jean parler/John speak [non-fin]
instead of Jean parle/John speaks [fin]. It’ll get the communication job done in
many contexts, although it will grate on a native speaker.
Assuming that L2 learners know the principles of grammar, they’ll
know that a finite verb belongs in certain positions, e.g. as the main verb
of a simple sentence. But they’ll use an infinitive because of lack of
106 K E N W E X L E R
knowledge or recall ability of the finite inflection, as a kind of strategy. It
would have been natural 25 years ago to think that an L1 child had the
same strategy. But she doesn’t. We know this because, as we have seen,
adult L2 learners use the infinitive in finite contexts, quite often, whereas
the young child doesn’t.
In infinitival contexts L2 learners are more accurate than in finite con-
texts. According to the simple model I have outlined, this is simply due to
their knowing the morphology, the spell-out of the infinitive better than
that of the finite form. In the simplest analysis, it’s because they’ve learned
the infinitive in different learning contexts, perhaps as a citation form.
The effect isn’t monolithic however. One could expect certain L2 learners
to have learned another form of a verb, and overuse that.
There are several other papers that have investigated the issue (Ionin
and Prevost 1997; Wexler 2003; Tran 2005) and they all agree on the
general outlines of these results. I know of no results that would lead to
an opposite conclusion. It should be acknowledged that the number of L2
subjects analyzed in this way is much smaller than the larger studies of L1,
and much is yet to be learned about the effect of L1 on the learning process,
etc. Nevertheless, even with the small number of studies and subjects, the
fact that the direction of the results is clear is quite encouraging.
The results are clear. The amazing difference between L1 and L2 learners
is fairly stunning evidence for the maturational explanation of OI stage.
This is the type of study that rarely gets done when one proposes, for
example, that an error in language learning is due to “learning” and not
to biology. If one takes the scientific approach seriously, the result has to
be acknowledged; the child error is distinctly different in kind than the
adult “learning” error, and to be explained in a different way. We have an
effect of biology, and an entry into Luria’s Biolinguistic Suggestion.
Why should it take so long and present such difficulty for an adult L2
learner to pick up the inflectional system, the spell-out of the features? It’s
a lack of plasticity. Can we say anything in detail? Earlier I mentioned the
attempt of Legate and Yang (2007) to try to explain the existence of the OI
stage in children via an application to a “Tense Parameter” of Yang’s (2002)
model of parameter-setting. As Wexler (2011) shows, the model mispre-
dicts the central facts of the OI stage. But one might consider whether this
model could be fitted appropriately to adult L2 learning.
Why might this work? The model is what I call a “stamping in” model,
akin to habit-formation learning models of the mid twentieth century. If
the learner hears a sentence she very slowly, very laboriously increases
and decreases the weights of parameters. There is no kind of use of data to
infer the correct grammar. And it is extremely slow. It predicts massive
errors during learning.
Strikingly, as Wexler (2011) shows, and contra the claims of Legate and
Yang, the learning model predicts that the learner will produce errors in
word order, using, for example, infinitives in finite positions. This is exactly
Luria’s biolinguistic suggestion and the growth of language 107
what L2 learners do. So perhaps the model can be applied to L2 learning,
where it is anyway more natural, as it is a model that appeals to what appears
to me to be defective plasticity, really, just very slow, laborious learning, not
what’s characteristic of children in their language forming years.
Looking into this in a somewhat more detailed fashion, the Legate and
Yang predictions depend on differential rates across languages of “ambi-
guity” in whether the language has Tense or not, as a question of a
parameter. As Wexler (2011) argues, this doesn’t make much sense. But
perhaps the ambiguity idea can be reframed as a question of how trans-
parent it is in the input data what the agreement forms are. So that the
slow, laborious learning process is made easier when the input is clearer
and more abundant. Since a language like Spanish has a good deal of clear
input evidence about a rich set of inflectional forms, these spell-outs of the
inflectional features will have abundant, clear evidence, and the L2 learner
of Spanish would pick them up relatively quickly. In English on the other
hand, the evidence for 3rd person singular s might appear relatively
infrequently and the existence of no audible element in the spell-out of
other members of the paradigm might interfere with slow learning also, so
that the learning of s is delayed. The details of the model would matter. But
we’d predict more difficulty for English inflections as an L2 than for
Spanish inflection as an L2.
One would have to test the use of infinitives in Spanish L2 against
English L2, for example, to test this prediction. But it’s a possibility.
Perhaps the L2 parameter-setting process has this stamping-in character-
istic of the Yang model, that doesn’t exist for L1 learning. If in fact the rich
agreement languages (Spanish) show faster L2 learning (fewer uses of the
infinitive in finite contexts) than the poor agreement languages (English,
Swedish) then one further prediction is clear. Icelandic as an L2 (learned by
an adult) should show few infinitives in finite positions, just like Spanish.
That is, not much of an overuse of infinitives. Whereas for young children
we know that Icelandic doesn’t behave like Spanish, because Icelandic is
not null-subject.
There is other research concerning L2 and OI’s, all of which to my
knowledge agrees that adult and older child L2 learning does not show
the properties of the OI stage, but rather uses infinitives as a kind of default
due to insufficient learning or recall of the inflectional forms. Tense is not
omitted from the representations at these ages, unlike in early L1 learning.
Tran (2005) showed that English-speaking students learning German in
Hawaii had a strong use of infinitivals in 2nd position. Haznedar and
Schwartz (1997) showed that a very young Turkish child who moved to
London used non-finites as a default in English L2; the child did not use
null-subjects the way an OI-stage child does and did not use non-
nominative subject case for non-finites, which is another sign of the OI
stage in English. Ionin and Wexler (2002) showed that 5- to 10-year-old
Russian-speaking children who learned English as an L2 in the United
108 K E N W E X L E R
States used infinitival instead of finite verbs in many instances but were
not in the OI stage. They made types of errors that are not typical of L1
learners in the OI stage.
Much remains to be investigated about L2 and what learning models are
appropriate for parameter-setting there. But we can safely conclude that
there are biological growth processes at work in L1 that don’t exist in L2,
and that these are responsible for the OI stage. Luria’s Biolinguistic
Suggestion works out in this context.
8.5 Toward a biolinguistics in the growth of language:
Behavioral Genetics and Speciﬁc Language Impairment
There is a large complex of properties that flows from the analysis of the
finiteness system, or more generally the UCC-delayed system, as a piece of
biological development. These properties don’t follow from the small
number of alternatives that might be offered, e.g. the OI stage is a result
of “learning” or it is due to some kind of memory error (why, then, doesn’t
it occur at all in many languages, e.g. Italian? why does NS/OI hold?). In
short, there is a great deal of evidence for Chomsky’s (2004, 2005) obser-
vation that one of the “three factors that enter into the growth of language
in the individual” is:10
Genetic endowment, apparently near uniform for the species, which
interprets part of the environment as linguistic experience, a non-trivial
task that the infant carries out reflexively, and determines the general
course of the development of the language faculty. Among the genetic
elements, some may impose computational limitations but that disappear
in a regular way through genetically-timed maturation. Ken Wexler and
his associates have provided compelling evidence of their existence in the
growth of language, thus providing empirical evidence for what Wexler
calls “Lenneberg’s dream.”
This complex of integration between linguistic theory and psycholinguis-
tic growth is already a significant step toward Luria’s suggestion. It could
have been accomplished only with the kinds of formal language study that
Luria mentions together with experimental investigation of the detailed
properties of language growth in the individual and its cause. So we are
already on the road to showing how the suggestion might be realized.
But there is a further goal mentioned in Luria’s suggestion, the goal of
integrating biological data of the sort that biologists are familiar with and
linguistic theory and growth studies. Is anything known about that possi-
bility in the domain that we are looking at? Amazingly enough, the answer
is yes. Even compared to as recently as the possibilities for such integration
mentioned in Wexler (2003) there is real development. Let me review what
is known.
Luria’s biolinguistic suggestion and the growth of language 109
As we’ve previously argued, the most natural place to look for a
Biolinguistic connection between language and biology is in the domain
of inheritance, of the genetic system construed broadly. How is the bio-
logical capacity for language passed down from generation to generation?
What does get passed down? What does this passing down accomplish?
These are the kinds of questions (not about language, but in general) that
revolutionized biology in the mid twentieth century. We have the outlines
of an answer to the question of inheritance.
The first task to be accomplished in attempting to study the genetic
underpinnings for any system is to prove that it’s inherited. Chomsky’s
arguments for the inheritance of the capacity for language are famous. In
addition, the study of language development adds quite a few reasons to
believe in the genetic nature of the capacity. But what about “biological”
evidence that is used in most genetic studies.
It may not be apparent to the linguistic reader, but the kinds of argu-
ments we have already given are the kinds of arguments that are used to
study the question of genetic capacity in biology in general (other than
when the general expectation in biology is reason enough to have a bias to
genetic inheritance). It is a question of simple logic and evidence. So the
fact that environmental variables that can have an effect don’t have one in
the case of finiteness is clearly an illustration of the kinds of evidence that
biologists would use.
But how about evidence that uses “biological” variables relating to
genetics? Evidence that uses what we know about biology more specifi-
cally? The first place one would look in biology is to test whether individ-
uals that share more of their genetic systems develop/grow in a closer way
with regard to the property under consideration. One studies the “herit-
ability” of a trait in biology.
Can we do this in language? Yes. More particularly, can we study the
development of the phenomena that follow from the UCC, the phenomena
that we have evidence are under genetic timing? For example, and cen-
trally, can we study the development of finiteness in this way? Do two
individuals who share more genes develop finiteness in more similar ways
than two individuals who share fewer genes?
This area of research is called “Behavioral Genetics.” The first paper I
know that asked this question was Ganger, Wexler, and Soderstrom (1997);
see also Ganger (1998). Their study was carried out via the standard
method of analysis of twins, which I present here in quite simplified
form, not taking account of possibilities that can complicate the analysis,
e.g. environment in the womb. Identical (monozygotic, MZ) twins share
100% of their genes and fraternal (dizygotic, DZ) twins share about 50% of
their genes. We wish to determine how much of a trait X is due to the
genome and how much is due to the environment. The assumption is that
for the trait X under investigation, if the twins are brought up together,
with respect to the relevant experience for X, the similarity of
110 K E N W E X L E R
environment between two identical twins is quite close to the similarity of
environment of fraternal twins. Thus to the extent that identical twins
resemble each other more on trait X than do fraternal twins, we must
attribute this difference to the genome, that is, to inheritance of trait X.
An example is height. On the average, identical twins are more similar to
each other in height than are fraternal twins. On the assumption that the
identical twins, growing up in the same household, same parents or care-
givers, had about the same environment, and similarly for fraternal twins,
the greater similarity in height for identical twins is attributed to the
genome. All this is the case in explicit terms of amounts of heritability,
but we won’t provide that kind of formal discussion here.
Clearly there are instances in which the crucial assumption of similarity
of environments fails. Suppose the trait X is something like how one
chooses to dress. For example, one might suppose that the parents of
identical twins tend to dress them more alike than the parents of fraternal
twins. If early style of clothes influences adult choice of clothes, it might
turn out that identical twins grow up to dress more alike than do fraternal
twins. We couldn’t attribute this difference in dressing style to genes
because there was an environmental difference that could have caused
the difference in the trait to emerge.
Finiteness is not such a trait, however. Children receive thousands of
utterances, and there is no reason to believe that adults choose to speak
more similarly to their identical twins than they do to fraternal twins. And
we have already seen that the standard variables for learning (e.g. mother’s
degree of education) do not influence the development of the rate of
finiteness. Parents also don’t choose their sentences on the basis of lan-
guage lessons (Newport, Gleitman, and Gleitman 1977). If there were any-
thing in the realm of cognitive science that is amenable to standard
behavioral genetics, I would argue that the rate of finiteness production is.
So Ganger et al. took rates of finiteness in obligatory contexts in English
as the measure in their twin study. They showed that MZ twins were more
similar in attaining a particular criterion than were DZ twins; in particular,
on average the MZ twins were 3 weeks different in reaching the criterion,
whereas the DZ twins were 13 weeks different. The greater similarity of
the MZ twins is attributed to the developmental rates being affected by
genetic inheritance, which is more similar for MZ twins than for DZ twins.
For further evidence and discussion, with more twin pairs, see Ganger
(1998) and for discussion see Wexler (2003).
Since the publication of Wexler (2003), which made the case for the
hypothesis that finiteness (really the UCC) was a genetically determined
piece of Biolinguistic growth, bringing together much data integrating
biological type thinking and linguistic data that bore on the question,
the biological support for the hypothesis has grown even stronger and
more detailed. One example has to do with behavioral genetics, what
we’ve just briefly looked at. Ganger et al. and Ganger’s dissertation had
Luria’s biolinguistic suggestion and the growth of language 111
the right logic and evidence, but a limited number of twins under inves-
tigation. There is now a much larger study, more typical of the size range of
behavioral genetic studies in other fields, that can be used for evidence
concerning what is inherited, over a larger array of capacities. This is the
kind of evidence that isn’t typically brought into discussion of studies of
language acquisition when such questions are debated. But that omission
makes no sense. This type of evidence speaks directly to the question of
genetically based maturation versus experience as being the determinants
of aspects of language acquisition. And of course, Luria’s Biolinguistic
Suggestion tells us to move in that direction. Let’s see what happens
when such studies are carried out.
First, we’ll have to take a very brief (unfortunately) detour into the study
of language impairment. Specific Language Impairment (SLI) is a deficit in
linguistic abilities that is not accompanied by an obvious cognitive or
behavioral deficit. It is a huge topic, the literature of which we can’t even
begin to summarize here. I’ll just mention a few central and relevant points.
There is good reason to believe that children with SLI aren’t just the tail
of a normal distribution of development. There is too much of a distin-
guishing gap between such children and typically developing children.
Furthermore, on particular grammatical properties that the deficit targets,
SLI children perform significantly worse than (younger) control children
who are matched to the SLI children on measures of general language
development (Rice, Wexler, and Cleave 1995 and many papers since). In
addition, there is now good evidence that SLI continues into the late teen
years, and most likely, never goes away (Rice, Hoffman, and Wexler 2009).
Children just learn to cover it up, to behave appropriately in common
grammatical situations. They are intelligent, receive therapy, and have
every motivation to do so. They are probably using their general cognitive
abilities, but are still missing something grammatical in their linguistic
systems. See Wexler (2003) for a brief review.
As Rice, Wexler, and Cleave first showed, children with SLI are greatly
delayed in their development of finiteness, significantly worse than TD
children matched to them on general language development. They argued
for the existence of OI’s as being a “clinical marker” for SLI in English. Rice
and Wexler (2001) is a standardized test based on rates of finiteness in SLI
that selects English-speaking children as having SLI or not. It is highly
sensitive and specific.
At the same time, children with SLI do not show serious problems with
subject–verb agreement, nor make certain other kinds of grammatical
errors concerning inflection that TD children don’t make (Rice, Wexler,
and Cleave 1995). Thus these children are in the OI stage. We call it the
Extended Optional Infinitive (EOI) stage just to remind us that it is the OI stage
continuing to a later age. Although children with SLI increase their rates of
finiteness in obligatory contexts as they get older, reaching 90% or so at age
8 (as a group), this remains a bit below TD children. More significantly,
112 K E N W E X L E R
Rice, Hoffman, and Wexler (2009) showed that in slightly more compli-
cated contexts, where direct therapy probably didn’t help them cover up
the error, even many (late teens) children with SLI behave poorly.
SLI, of course, provides a greatly expanded range of data appropriate for
the Biolinguistic view. SLI is inherited (Rice, Haney, and Wexler 1998;
Bishop 2002 for a review, and see ensuing discussion here). Thus we have
a genetically based impairment that seems to target grammatical proper-
ties, in particular finiteness. Of course, since OI is a special case of the
Unique Checking Constraint, the natural hypothesis is that SLI is governed
by the Extended Unique Checking Constraint (EUCC). The first prediction of
EUCC is that non-finite utterances will be characteristic of only certain
languages, i.e. NS/OI will hold of SLI children. In particular, there should
not be large rates of non-finiteness in the productions of children with SLI
speaking null-subject languages, e.g. Italian. This prediction turns out to be
true (Botarri, Cipriani, and Chilosi 1996; see Wexler 2003 for discussion).
On the EUCC hypothesis, we would expect slowness in development of
other grammatical properties in children with SLI. An example with a good
deal of empirical study is the case of object clitic pronouns, which are
often omitted by children in the OI stage in certain languages (e.g. French,
Italian, Catalan) that have such clitics. The UCC is the best explanation for
this omission (Wexler 1998), explaining not only the omission of clitics,
but also why omission doesn’t occur in certain languages (Spanish, Greek),
(Wexler, Gavarró, and Torrens 2004; Tsakali and Wexler 1998; Gavarró,
Torrens, and Wexler 2010).
The next prediction from EUCC is clear: SLI children developing lan-
guages in which TD children don’t omit clitics also shouldn’t omit clitics.
This turns out to be true. Manika, Varlokosta, and Wexler (2011) showed
that the rate of clitic omission in Greek-speaking children with SLI was
very small and that there was a very large difference between the rates in
the literature from Italian-speaking children with SLI.
Their [Arosio et al. 2010] method was an elicitation method very much like
our method. The SLI children ranged from 6;2–8; 4 years with mean age
6;10. The SLI children in our study had a mean age of 6;2. Thus, we have a
very similar study in Italian with somewhat older children. Arosio et al.
(2010) found that their SLI group omitted clitics 40% of the time, compared
to the 5% that we found for Greek SLI children in our study. This is really a
huge difference.
This tight constellation of a rich set of developmental facts is exactly what
we’d expect of a biolinguistic system, and how it might go awry. Since SLI
is inherited, the biological fact of its inheritance adds to the developmen-
tal facts to support the conclusion. Luria’s Biolinguistic Suggestion applies.
Now we’re ready to turn back to the behavioral genetic data. As we have
shown, Ganger et al.’s study of TD twins showed that there was some
genetic inheritance of finiteness rates but was a small study. There is
Luria’s biolinguistic suggestion and the growth of language 113
now a much larger, very detailed study (Bishop, Adams, and Norbury 2006)
that also compares the inheritance of finiteness to the inheritance of other
capacities and considers the genetic relations of the inheritance. This
paper studies language impaired children, so that we can look for differ-
ences in development of finiteness rates at later ages than in Ganger et al.
The understanding of SLI as EOI and, more generally, EUCC that has been
documented in so many previous studies is crucial for our ability to use the
data from the genetic basis for SLI as indicating support for that particular
genetic basis of development in TD children. In other words, the simplest
hypothesis we have is:
(7) The Genetic Uniformity Hypothesis (GUH): The genetic cause of SLI is
an aberration of the genetic system that causes the EOU (more gen-
erally the EUCC).
Genetic Uniformity does not have to hold; if true it is a discovery (though it
is the simplest hypothesis). We have excellent reason to believe in Genetic
Uniformity. Namely, many striking effects (including OI’s, omitted clitics
and the particular correlations with their existence in particular lan-
guages) behave exactly the same way in TD and SLI. This did not have to
happen. It is easy to create possible scenarios that would lead us to not
support Genetic Uniformity. E.g. suppose SLI children had EOI, but didn’t
omit clitics. Then we’d have either to think of the OI stage in TD children
and in SLI children as having different characterizations (the UCC in the
case of TD children, something else in the case of SLI) or we would have to
give up the UCC characterization of the OI stage, leading to a lack of
understanding of and synthesis with the OI stage, and difficulty in explain-
ing why clitics weren’t omitted in particular languages. Or, suppose SLI
children showed a great number of subject/verb agreement errors, and,
perhaps, omitted ing from participles. This is so at odds with the OI stage,
that we couldn’t support Genetic Uniformity. But the many tests that have
been conducted so far support Genetic Uniformity. Thus we’ll assume this
and be able to conclude (as a hypothesis, with empirical support) that
whatever the genetic basis of the OI (UCC) stage in TD children, SLI has
the same genetic basis, but with aberration. This is a well-known genetic
effect of heterochronology. Some genetic development takes place out of
time, or not at all. In this case, we think of the genetic system causing a
change in physiology (in the brain) that allows the UCC to disappear over
time. In children with SLI, the genetic system has lost this capacity, thus it
cannot cause the brain to undergo the development that allows the UCC to
disappear, and it remains in place. For an extreme example, tadpoles
develop into frogs and there is a genetic basis for this development.
Imagine a genetic defect that doesn’t allow this development to take
place, so that the animal remains a tadpole all through life. Genetic
Uniformity applies the same logic, though SLI is subtler than the tadpole/
frog case, only affecting a much smaller part of the organism.
114 K E N W E X L E R
Bishop et al. started with a large set of twins, each member of which they
labeled as Language Impairment Risk (LI risk) or Low Risk on the basis of
parental report at age 4. They selected 87 MZ twin pairs and 86 DZ twin
pairs to study. The pairs were selected so that the numbers of pairs in three
groups were about equal, the three groups being ones in which neither
child was at LI risk, one child was at LI risk, or both children were at LI risk.
At age 6, the investigators performed a battery of tests on the children.
Unsurprisingly the LI risk children did more poorly, but that is not the
point of the study. For that, we have to look at the battery of tests.
The battery included IQ tests, including Verbal and Performance IQ, and
various sub-tests of a standardized test for language, “Listening to para-
graphs,” “Sentence Structure,” and “Recalling sentences.” There were two
measures used that were of interest because they had been proposed in the
literature as being a good means to identify children with SLI. These
included what the authors called “Phonological Short Term Memory”
(Phonological STM) and “Verb Inflections.” The measure of Phonological
Short Term Memory is Non-Word Repetition (NWR), how well the child
repeats a nonword that has the phonological structure of English. Since
there is no interpretive support, the memory is taken to be completely
“phonological.” The nonwords varied in number of syllables. It is well
known that the longer the word, the more difficult it is to repeat back
correctly. The particular test used was the Children’s Nonword Repetition
Test (Gathercole, Willis, Baddeley, and Emslie 1994).
The idea of Phonological STM (Baddeley, Gathercole, and Papagno 1998)
is that when children are developing language, they have to learn from
input strings that they cannot yet analyze. In order to take these strings in,
analyze them and perform learning using them as data, the child has to be
able, among other things, to perceive the string and remember it long
enough to work on. If the child couldn’t do this, how could she learn?
It seems obvious that such a capacity must be necessary. Suppose a child
has to learn that a lexical item is a verb and that verbs in that language
follow their objects (as in Japanese). Even suppose the child understands
and can interpret the noun phrase that’s spoken, if she doesn’t know the
verb, she must hold it in memory together with the noun phrase object,
e.g. . . . the candy ate. The learner has to hold ate together with the object
in memory even when she can’t interpret ate. So the capacity to analyze
so-far unanalyzed strings must be a minimal part of a language-learning
device. Of course, we know that it is only a very small part of the device
needed to learn language; the arguments are legend. But that is not to deny
that some such capacity is also necessary.
Whether Phonological STM defines SLI, of course, is another question.
We can understand why many authors (e.g. Bishop) would like it to be
such. Phonological STM is a kind of “general purpose” ability, not particu-
larly characteristic of linguistic systems, not representing the “knowl-
edge” level of the system, and quite acceptable to a psychologist who
Luria’s biolinguistic suggestion and the growth of language 115
doesn’t want to assume much is special in inheritance or the brain about
human language. So it is a very appealing proposal to psychologists of such
beliefs.
On the other hand, Phonological STM (PSTM) has a very difficult time
explaining the facts of SLI, as I have described them. Why should there
be an OI stage, in particular? Well, perhaps if PSTM is very weak, perhaps
a child can’t remember the verb and its inflection, so the child can’t
learn the appropriate inflection in the right semantic “context” and thus
omits the inflection. Such a characterization might at least at first sight
work for English, where the OI in main verbs in present tense is mostly
the use of the stem instead of 3rd-person singular s, or for OI’s in past
tense, where the stem replaces ed or the irregular vowel change or other
irregular change. It looks like the stem is simply omitted. As we know
since Wexler (1990, 1992, 1994), however, this isn’t the general, or even
most frequent case; it applies to English but not other languages. And
that’s the reason the OI stage wasn’t first discovered in English, despite
the large number of studies of early development in English. In other
languages, the verb that children mistakenly use often adds to the stem,
and is the infinitive. This is true for TD and SLI children. Why should the
child make that mistake on the PSTM account? There seems to be no
explanation. Rather, we’d expect the omission of the inflection, just as in
English.
Even more strikingly, why should NS/OI hold? If it’s a question of PSTM,
surely Italian-speaking children with SLI should have the same difficulties.
Shouldn’t they produce infinitives instead of finite verbs?
One could go on to the fact that children with SLI don’t make many
subject/verb agreement mistakes, showing that the verb + inflection span
is not so difficult for them, to the use of default accusative case as subjects
of non-finite verbs in English (how can PSTM explain this?), to particular
patterns of auxiliary omission, to clitic omission in only some languages,
to the child’s early mastery of wh-questions (OI-age children produce
almost no in situ wh forms in English, unless they’re echo questions, de
Villiers 1995), which seems to demand a much longer span of sentence
analysis than a verb plus inflection, among much else. The facts of EOI and
EUCC don’t follow from difficulties in Phonological STM.
Still, it’s possible that there are other types of SLI, one defined by PSTM,
and one defined by something more directly grammatical. Most studies
haven’t tested both PSTM and finiteness rates in the same children. It is a
virtue of Bishop et al. that they did, as we will now describe.
The second interesting variable that Bishop et al. study is finiteness rate in
obligatory contexts, as we have been considering in this chapter. They call
the measure “verb inflection,” although they sometimes refer to it as “%
verbs inflected,” which pretty well describes what I’ve got as finiteness rates
in obligatory contexts. It is the same measure as we’ve discussed. The
authors write, “Use of verb inflections was tested using pre-publication
116 K E N W E X L E R
versions of two subtests from the Rice–Wexler Test of Early Grammatical
Impairment (Rice and Wexler 2001).” The first sub-test was an elicitation
experiment for past tense (the error that TD and SLI make is the OI error,
omitting tense; they use the stem, e.g. push instead of pushed). The second
sub-test was an elicitation experiment for 3rd-person singular present tense
(again the TD and SLI child error is to omit s, push instead of pushes). The
measure then is % use of ed or s (the experimental contexts make these
obligatory).
Each of these measures was then subject to a heritability analysis. The
results may be seen in Figure 8.1 from Bishop et al. (2006). The black
regions indicate the proportion of variance due to genes. The white regions
indicate the determination of environmental influences shared by both
twins, for example, effects of their particular parents. The gray regions
indicate other influences. As Bishop et al. say, these other influences are
often thought of as the environment, but not shared.
What’s inherited? In fact, Phonological STM shows a great deal of inheri-
tance; inheritance explains about 60% of the variance. Finiteness (“Verb
Inflections”) shows even more, about 77% (I’m reading these numbers off
the graph). That is, about 77% of the variation in rates of finiteness is
explained by genetic factors. As heritability rates go, this is quite large.
Effects of shared environment on both Phonological STM and finiteness
are small; on finiteness it looks to be only about 7%. That is, having a
particular set of parents, with what they do, e.g. language input they
provide, as opposed to another set of parents, only explains about 7% of
the variation in finiteness rates. This result agrees, of course, with what
we’ve already discussed concerning vanishingly small effects of maternal
WASI performance IQ
WASI vocabulary
WASI similarities
Listening to paragraphs
Sentence structure
Recalling sentences
Phonological STM
Verb inflections
0.0 0.2 0.4
Proportion of variance
0.6 0.8 1.0
h2
g
c2
g
e2
g
Figure 8.1 Proportions of variance in language-deﬁcit status attributable to genes (h2
0),
environmental inﬂuences shared by both twins (c2
0), or other inﬂuences (e2
0). The “other”
term incorporates inﬂuences traditionally referred to as nonshared environment and includes
measurement error. WASI, Wechster Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence; STM, short-term
memory.
Luria’s biolinguistic suggestion and the growth of language 117
education (as a measure of richness of environment) on the rate of finite-
ness development in TD and SLI children.
Other factors deserve at least brief mention. Note that the heritability of
vocabulary size is almost zero. This too agrees with what we know – that
there are large environmental effects on how large and rich a vocabulary a
person develops. This is perfectly comprehensible. If a child has an envi-
ronment (perhaps a parent) with a richer vocabulary, that is apt to be used
around the child, she will develop a larger vocabulary. One parent might
speak to the child more than another, delivering more input for vocabu-
lary development. One parent might read to a child more, and this might
help vocabulary development. A parent with more education might be
able to send the child to a school that provides a richer environment, and
this too will lead to a larger vocabulary. Vocabulary is learned item by item,
and environment matters. We see the behavioral genetic effects of that set
of considerations in this graph.
Moreover, the fact that certain behaviors that are part of language
(vocabulary size) show such a different inheritance pattern than language
gives us reason to have more faith in the results. It matters what we are
studying – it isn’t that everything is strongly heritable.
The only measure that is more heritable than language is the sub-test on
“sentence structure” at around 83%. The authors don’t tell us exactly what
is in that test,11
but they do tell us it’s a test of understanding (compre-
hension, I presume) of syntactic structure and that passive structures and
embedded clauses are in it in some form. Exactly what is driving its
heritability?
8.5.1 Is UCC the only property that matures or matures away
in SLI? A brief detour from ﬁniteness
The issue is important because we’d like to know exactly what grammat-
ical properties are delayed in SLI. We know that finiteness in some lan-
guages is, that clitics are, that UCC holds for SLI for a long time, or
indefinitely. But how about other maturing aspects of grammar? Let’s
consider two alternative hypotheses:
(9) Two Alternative Hypotheses. In SLI,
a. UCC holds for an extended or, perhaps, indefinite period, or
alternatively,
b. All aspects of grammar that mature in typically developing chil-
dren take an extended period, or indefinitely, to mature.
In between, of course, there might be other hypotheses. Perhaps the UCC
and some particular other properties are delayed in SLI, but not all matur-
ing properties of grammar. We know that some properties of the inflec-
tional system of grammar are well known to children with SLI (subject/
verb agreement, plural marking, the necessity for ing on a present
118 K E N W E X L E R
participle in English), but these are properties that develop very quickly in
young TD children, without an extended maturational period. We don’t
really know about verbal passive. One unpublished study shows that
verbal passive in English-speaking children with SLI is delayed compared
to age-matched controls, but isn’t delayed compared to language-matched
controls. That result makes it look like verbal passive delayed in children
with SLI only has some kind of general delay, but not specifically as a trait,
that is, it shows a much weaker pattern of delay than finiteness. We might
then expect that children with SLI will grow out of the delay in verbal
passive, unlike what seems to happen with finiteness.
On the other hand, the essential studies really haven’t been done with
verbal passives in children with SLI. It’s well known that young children
before about age 8 do better than their syntactic capacities allow on verbal
passive, because they substitute the adjectival passive, that they do know,
as a strategy that allows them to interpret the sentences in the experiment
well enough (Borer and Wexler 1987 and many subsequent publications).
In languages in which the verbal passive is not homophonous with the
adjectival passive, children do much worse on verbal passive (e.g. Greek;
Terzi, and Wexler 2002). Even as theories have been changed as to what
exactly is the grammatical capacity that is missing in children that makes
verbal passive so difficult, this use of the adjectival passive as a strategy has
proven crucial. The crucial test in English that shows how slowly passives
develop is a test that uses verbs that form syntactic passives but do not
form adjectival passives. The standard case is verbs with subject experi-
encer, e.g. like, see, etc. Children develop most slowly on these, and even
when about age 5 they do pretty well on passives of “actional” verbs (verbs
with agents and patients), they do poorly on verbs with subject experi-
encer verbs until about age 8.
Yet, to my knowledge there are no experiments on children with SLI on
passive constructions with subject experiencer verbs. Until those studies
are done, we will have to wait before we can claim that verbal passive is not
delayed in children with SLI to the same extent that finiteness and other
UCC effects are. It may turn out that on passives of subject experiencer
verbs, children with SLI perform more poorly than do language-matched
younger children. In which case, we’d have to conclude that what is taken
to mature in syntactic passives (the notion of “defective” phase, according
to Wexler (2004)’s analysis) matures even later in children with SLI. The
experimental test is open. My own view is that far too little is known about
other grammatical constructions and processes in SLI to choose strongly
between (8a,b).
8.5.2 Back to the heritability of the loss of UCC
So the Bishop et al. data show that finiteness is greatly heritable. This is
good evidence for the maturational conclusions that we’ve drawn, and
Luria’s biolinguistic suggestion and the growth of language 119
gets us a long way into Luria’s Biolinguistic Suggestion. But we’ve also seen
that Phonological STM is also quite heritable. What does this tell us about
SLI? Those with a bias toward “general purpose” theories, theories in
which there are only a few simple psychological processes and all else
follows, basically an assumption that there is nothing special about lan-
guage, might propose that Phonological STM difficulties were the under-
lying cause of UCC difficulties, of the OI stage. I have already argued how
implausible this is, how the properties of the OI stage in no way can be
seen to follow from difficulties in Phonological STM; the calculations of
the theory of STM, if there were such, would make the wrong predictions.
So far as I know, there is no attempt to cash out the claim, no attempt to
show computationally how the properties of SLI follow from PSTM diffi-
culties. And one can see why; the properties don’t follow on any common-
sense analysis of what PSTM might mean.
Nevertheless, it would be helpful to see if the genetic data could be
brought to bear on the question. Bishop et al. undertake exactly this task.
First, let’s point out that Bishop et al. do a Defries–Fulker analysis (for
details see the paper) that shows, of all their measures, only PSTM, finite-
ness, and Sentence Structure were significant predictors of language
impairment. They also write, “These three measures were striking insofar
as they showed no significant effect of environmental influences that are
common to both members of a twin pair.” So putting aside Sentence
Structure, the details of which we don’t know right now and which
we’ve discussed, let’s see how Bishop et al. bring behavioral genetic data
to bear on the question of one heritable property being the cause of
another property.
They gain purchase on this question by asking, do the same genes cause
different language deficits? If the answer to this question is yes, it is
plausible (if unproven) that the underlying condition of one deficit causes
the other deficit. If the answer to this question is no, it seems extremely
implausible that one condition is the cause of the other. How do they study
this question?
First, the Pearson correlation between the measures of PSTM and finite-
ness for the whole sample of 346 children was only .299, as they say
“statistically significant but weak.”12
Standard analysis tells us that one
of the measures only explains about 9% of the variance in the other
measure. This doesn’t look like one measure is the cause of the other.
The authors write that, “This suggests that they are not different manifes-
tations of the same underlying ability.”
They go on to a stronger test, a test that can be used to determine
whether two measures are caused by the same genes. If finiteness and
PSTM are due to the same genetic causes, then it is plausible (not proven)
that one measure is somehow the cause of the other. If they have distinct
genetic origins, it would be quite unlikely that one measure was the cause
of the other. For suppose PSTM “caused” the OI stage. But the OI stage
120 K E N W E X L E R
arises from different genes? How could these facts be consistently put
together?
Here’s how the test goes, in the informal description the authors give
(we’ll skip the more technical description):
A stronger test of common origins of the two deficits is given using a
bivariate extension of DF analysis (see Purcell et al. 2001). In this method,
one identifies probands on the basis of low scores on one measure (X) and
then considers whether one can predict scores of their co-twins on another
measure (Y). If the prediction is stronger for MZ than for DZ twins, this
points to shared genetic origins for X and Y. . . . Another statistic that can be
estimated from bivariate DF analysis is the phenotypic association
between X and Y, . . . If X and Y are unrelated, this should be zero; if they
are equivalent, it will be 1. Bishop, Adams, and Norbury (2005) p. 164
The results are that “bivariate DF analysis gave estimates close to zero for
bivariate heritability . . . of phonological STM, and verb morphology.” By
“verb morphology” the authors mean finiteness rates, as described. In
other words the genetic basis of phonological STM and finiteness are
distinct, and the results are quite strong, not ambiguous. The authors
conclude that “The current study expands the list of factors that seem
inadequate to account for grammatical impairments: the heritable deficits
in verb inflections and syntactic comprehension seen in our sample can-
not be explained in terms of weak phonological STM, low IQ, poor articu-
lation or vocabulary limitations. Thus, most of the domain-general
candidate explanations that have been put forward to explain grammat-
ical deficits in SLI are inadequate to account for this pattern of results.”
The authors point out that a general-purpose measure may yet be found
to explain language impairment, but there does not appear to be a pro-
posal that they think bears any plausibility at the current time. Of course,
one never knows what will be found. It is particularly difficult to make
predictions of course, because the “general-purpose” idea has no detailed
theory behind it, so it’s difficult to see from where a proposal could be
made.
At the present time one must conclude, to the extent that we have
evidence, that there is heritability of grammatical development; the
rates of development depend on the genome, and to the extent that we
have any evidence, these rates are not intermediated by any known
general-purpose structure.
How can we account for the fact that both SLI and phonological STM are
strong, genetically based predictors of SLI? Why do different studies find
different results? It’s quite possible that different studies pick different
populations; as I already pointed out, extremely few studies measure both
NWR and OI rates. A simple hypothesis is that there are two kinds of SLI;
one based on the EUCC, a grammatical computation deficit, and one based
on phonological STM, a memory/processing deficit. There is no reason in
Luria’s biolinguistic suggestion and the growth of language 121
principle why both couldn’t be possible and co-exist. Bishop et al. found a
small amount of greater overlap between the two deficits than expected
(see the paper for an interesting discussion of possibilities to explain this
result) but mostly cases of one deficit and not the other. So, perhaps we
should consider that there are two kinds of SLI, as described, and plan our
studies accordingly. One excellent innovation would be to study both OI
rates and NWR in the same studies. Possibly we’ll find that populations
that are selected on the usual general grounds (lagging on standardized
tests, clinical referrals, etc.) actually comprise two genetically distinct sub-
types. Separating the groups might provide even cleaner results than
attained by data.
These results look like Luria’s Biolinguistic Suggestion worked out in
some detail in a particular case. Of course, as I have already suggested, the
case may be more general; the research is only starting. Perhaps there is a
more general syntactic property subject to variation. But all properties
aren’t the same. For example, the development of finiteness and other
UCC properties in TD children is pretty much over in English by about age
4; the development of verbal passives in TD children takes until age 8 or 9.
Even if both developments turn out to be typical of SLI, say, we still want to
know why one takes longer than the other, how the genes direct the
physiology, why it takes particular lengths of time, etc.13
8.6 Genetics
Biology takes behavioral genetic data seriously, as part of its enterprise, so
the integration of which Luria wrote has in fact occurred. But biology also
goes deeper by looking at the physical structure of the inheritance, by
finding genes that are responsible for a particular development. Is this
science fiction for language, or is it real? Amazingly enough it is real. Here I
can only give the briefest sketch of what has been accomplished in the area
relevant to finiteness, which is, in fact, the major particular grammatical
area that has received genetic attention.
Most of the work has been accomplished via the method of studying SLI,
where one sees larger and longer lasting variation in rates of development
of finiteness, as we have seen. Geneticists and SLI researchers, working
together (mostly under the banner of the SLI Consortium in the UK), have
identified two regions that seem to relate to particular proposals for the
underlying deficit in SLI: phonological working memory and something
more related to grammar, in fact tense marking, the OI stage phenomena.
I will only review (and briefly) one paper, by Falcaro et al. (2008). Previous
to that, the SLI Consortium had identified regions of the genome that
correlated with measures related to SLI. SLI1, a region on chromosome
16, has been linked to Nonword Repetition, the measure of PSTM that we
have already discussed. SLI1, a region on chromosome 19 also linked to SLI,
122 K E N W E X L E R
but more ambiguously for various reasons as discussed by Falcaro et al. No
measure of OI rate had previously been used in these studies. Falcaro et al.,
taking off from Bishop et al. (2006) that we have just discussed, undertook a
genetic analysis by using both NWR and OI measures, asking how these
measures related to genetic regions.
The genetic method studied 93 children with SLI (the “probands”) and
their first degree relatives, 300 of them. A crucial point of the interpreta-
tion of the data is that the children with SLI had a mean age of 14;5 (range
13;1–16;2). The relatives, of course, had a great span of ages. Even the
youngest group, the “younger siblings” had a mean age of 12;4. The ages
are important because to the extent that some of the results on finiteness
rates are weaker than we might like, we should remember that simple
finiteness rates at these ages do not show strong effects.
The OI (finiteness) task used was the Past Tense (PT) task of Marchman,
Wulfeck, and Weismer (1999). The authors write, “Participants are shown
a drawing of everyday activities and asked to verbally fill in the missing
word that the assessor leaves out while reading a sentence to them. The
task comprises both regular and irregular verbs and is of the following
type: ‘The boy is walking. He walks everyday. Yesterday, he . . .’. Each
answer is classified as correct or incorrect and the test scored as the total
number of correct PT inflections . . .” The results were then standardized
(using other studies) and the standardized measures used in the genetic
analysis. Past Tense in this sense is one measure of OI rate.
So far as I can tell, overregularizations (throwed instead of threw) are
counted as an error in this paper. We know, however, that overregulariza-
tions are not particularly related to the OI stage. The crucial measure for OI
rate (finiteness rate) would include throwed in this example as finite. OI
children can choose throw (the OI), threw (correct), throwed (incorrect but
still finite). The OI stage predictions only relate to proportion of finiteness,
so to get the correct measure, throwed has to be taken as correct.
(Alternatively, one might only use regular verbs.) If, in fact, Falcaro et al.
counted overregularizations as incorrect, this could have introduced a
good deal of noise into their data. That they still found a genetic basis for
finiteness indicates that it is probably a strong relation between genes and
finiteness rates.
DNA was taken from the participants, and a linkage analysis performed
on markers in the candidate regions, on chromosome 16q14
(16q23.1–
16q24.2) and chromosome 19 (19q12–19q13.42). I will skip the compli-
cated details of the different kinds of analyses. In particular, a linkage
analysis was performed on siblings, comparing the genetic markers in
these regions and the PT score of one sib with the same for the other sib.
The study linked NWR to the candidate region on chromosome 16,
further supporting earlier findings. How about the finiteness task, PT in
this case? . . . we report new findings for the PT measure, for which to our
knowledge there has been no previous molecular genetic study. When PT
Luria’s biolinguistic suggestion and the growth of language 123
was measured on the continuous scale, the DF models suggested linkage
on both chromosomes but evidence for linkage was stronger on chromo-
some 19. When a binary measure for PT (cut-off of 1.5 SD) was considered,
linkage was only observed on chromosome 19, not on chromosome 16.
This is consistent with there being distinctive genetic bases to PT and NWR
and similar to the Bishop et al. (2006) twin analysis finding of limited
sharing of additive genetic variance for grammar and phonological short-
term memory. However, in the context of the heterogeneity of findings
that we often see across samples and measures, we again do not consider
this strong evidence. Nonetheless, these results suggest that the SLI2
region on chromosome 19 is worthy of further investigation using larger
samples and a refined range of measures.
So there was evidence for PT being specifically related to the identified
region on chromosome 19, but the evidence that it was related only to
chromosome 19 and not 16 only appeared when a cut-off for impairment
was assumed. When the measure of PT was continuous, PT appeared to be
related to both regions, though it was more strongly related to chromo-
some 19.
Why this somewhat differential result was obtained is not clear, but we
should first note (as the authors do) that the children with SLI were quite
old (range 13;1–16;2 as we said before). This means, given previous results
on EOI, that their performance on the PT task would have been quite high,
with not much variation. In fact, the mean score for the SLI probands was
43.09 (out of 52 perfect). This would not have provided much power to the
analysis. Moreover, if overregularizations were included as errors, many of
the errors could have been overregularizations (the exact facts of the
analysis are not reported, so far as I can find). So the fact the PT never-
theless related to the SLI2 region on chromosome 19 under any analysis is
quite suggestive.
In an attempt to understand the difference in the strength of the results
due to the continuous or cut-off methods, Falcaro et al. write:
We want to take this argument further and suggest that tense marking
may not be a phenotypic trait that is measurable as a continuous dimen-
sion across development but instead may be a skill in which competence is
either acquired or not acquired by early school age, comparable to a
Piagetian stage in learning. In this sense, qualitative distinctions in the
trait is what appears to be familial, while quantitative variability is likely
to be more a consequence of non-familial factors, notably age and others,
which may well be related to age, e.g. motivation/attention to task. p. 399
Clearly in TD, by “early school age,” tense marking is acquired, and any
deviation from it is some kind of performance error. But quantitative
variability must have genetic causes, whether in TD or in SLI. We know
from Bishop et al. (2006) that degree of tense marking is strongly inherited –
of course this is at an age when it hasn’t fully developed. Of course
124 K E N W E X L E R
quantitative variability in tense marking is a function of age – we know
this from large numbers of studies of the OI stage. But the suggestion that
factors like “motivation/attention” are of major importance is at odds with
the facts, if it means that the quantitative measure is a measure of moti-
vation or attention. Consider Italian, which doesn’t show an OI stage. Are
we to infer that all Italian children are more “motivated” or pay more
“attention” than all English-speaking children? Or within English, if it’s
lack of attention or motivation, why don’t English-speaking children in
the OI stage produce sentences with subjects and verbs not agreeing as
often as they produce OI’s. There are many other facts that don’t seem to
agree with the suggestion.
Similarly, following Ullman (2001a), the authors suggest that “procedural
memory” (defined as the acquisition of new skills, both motor and cognitive, over
multiple trials without the need of conscious awareness . . .) might be the cause of
the lack of correct use of past tense. Doubtless skill learning would have
such a component. But to apply it to the acquisition of finiteness makes no
sense, given the facts. The authors say it can explain difficulties in accessing
“appropriate endings to inflect verbs” but why then aren’t there agreement
errors? Even more strikingly, why do finite verbs end up in finite positions?
A brief glance at the overpoweringly strong Dutch data from Wexler,
Schaeffer, and Bol (2004) shows us why the OI stage (and Falcaro et al.’s PT
experiment) doesn’t show a problem with accessing endings. Only finite
verbs end up in V2 (we haven’t shown it, but the same is true for children
with SLI – the data is in the same paper as the TD paper).
We have come far in the study of the OI stage. From typical develop-
ment, integrating a large number of different looking constructions, with
explanatory models, serious evidence across a number of different fronts
on psychological/biological looking variables that the UCC grows as a
result of genetic effects, strong relations to language impairment, behav-
ioral genetic evidence that argues that there is no general purpose factor
that has been proposed that could cause SLI, and now progress towards
identifying genetic regions that might be part of the cause of the OI stage.
(The evidence concerns impairment, but we are working on the assump-
tion of genetic uniformity, so we would expect that the delay is caused by
the lack of genetic action that causes TD development, of UCC weakening
over time.)
8.7 Physiology (neural computations): Possible for OI
stage?
There is one other level that is quite relevant for Luria’s Biolinguistic
Suggestion, the level of physiology. Genetics is not physiology. If we
uncover genes, this doesn’t tell us what they do to the brain, but it is a
beginning on that task. Is there any other way of getting at physiology?
Luria’s biolinguistic suggestion and the growth of language 125
The method that looks most promising at the current time is a method
that studies what goes on in the brain as linguistic analysis is done. There
has been very little on this topic with respect to the OI stage. I can report
however that research is now taking place between my laboratory and
John Gabrieli’s fMRI laboratory that attempts to see what can be learned
about the brain and OI’s. We started by studying grammatical judgment
tasks in adults. We studied judgments of grammatical sentences, and two
kinds of ungrammatical sentences, sentences in which subject/verb agree-
ment was violated (e.g. John am leaving, not the actual example) and OI’s (e.g.
John leaving). The behavioral results are interesting and important, but let
me just mention the imaging results. OI’s show up as showing a left Broca’s
area effect. That is, subtracting the bad agreement sentences from the OI
sentences yields a response in left IFG, a classic language area.
It will take much research to pin down the details, and I have nothing to
report yet about children. Suppose we do see that Broca’s area is involved
in OI’s. What then? One important fact is that Broca’s area takes time to
develop; this is well known. An obvious hypothesis springs to mind? Could
the late development of Broca’s area be a cause of the OI stage?
Even if such elegant explanations turn out to be true, they are radically
incomplete. What is the nature of the computational limitation imposed
by a lack of development of Broca’s area? Why does the lack of develop-
ment of Broca’s area cause the UCC? How do the neural networks work
that impose the UCC? Physiology of the brain with relation to language is
in its infancy; mostly we have evidence that areas of the brain are
involved in certain types of competence or processing. This is true
more generally of anything in cognition. To my knowledge, there is no
model or theory of cognitive neuroscience, in any area, for anything
beyond the sensory level.
8.8 Some genetic questions to research
(10) What are the possibilities? What should be done?
(a) We have to dig much deeper into the UCC stage. First, for the OI
stage, there are many effects, and these should be studied.
Suppose we study auxiliary omission and its genetic basis? It
should be the same as Past Tense. Past Tense should be studied
more precisely, as I have argued above.
(b) OI rates in languages that mark the infinitive and aren’t null-
subject (Dutch, French, etc.) should show the same genetic basis
as PT in English. Are these on chromosome 19? I would expect a
language like Dutch would make an even clearer and neater test
than English in this regard, as the infinitive can’t be the result of
an omission process. We have seen how clean the OI results are
with respect to verb placement.
126 K E N W E X L E R
(c) Different languages should show different effects. There
shouldn’t be an effect of particular genes on development of
finiteness in, say, Italian. This almost has to be true, as there
will be little rate of development of finiteness in Italian, even
for children with SLI.
(d) Study Icelandic, and the genetic basis of finiteness development
in that language. The OI stage is very clear for some interesting
reasons in Icelandic. The infinitive is audibly marked also. We
predict that SLI in Icelandic should show a clear EOI effect.
Moreover, since Icelandic is a relatively homogeneous country
genetically, that should help in the search for genes. There are
also good records of family history.
(e) More strikingly, other UCC properties are predicted to have the
same genetic basis as finiteness. The most striking prediction at
the moment would be that if we study clitic omission in French
or Italian or a similar language, the genetic basis should be the
same as for the development of finiteness in English.
(f) Turn to other developmental stages of language. How about:
(g) Passives and related structures. In a passive study, Ganger, Dunn,
and Gordon (2005) showed that in TD, subject experiencer pas-
sives have a large inherited component and a very small environ-
mental component whereas the passives of actional verbs had a
large environmental component and little inherited component.
This makes a great deal of syntax if the syntactic ability is matura-
tional and the strategy that allows a child to understand the
actional verb passive is affected by the environment, e.g. motiva-
tion, learning, etc. The possibilities for study are endless.
(h) One could go on. Semantics of Determiners? Maturational? They
turn out not to relate to Theory of Mind, as we all thought, but
that is a story for another day.
8.9 The state of biolinguistics in the growth of language
For language, I would conclude, there is a serious possibility of Luria’s
Biolinguistic Suggestion providing a model for how results can actually be
obtained – by seriously integrating biology and linguistics. It is obvious
how biology plays a role, we have discussed that throughout the chapter.
But it is also obvious how linguistics plays a role; we have also discussed
that throughout the chapter. Without linguistic analysis, the whole ques-
tion of the OI stage would have been impossible and the array of facts that
are now on the table would never have been accumulated.
I have spent two paragraphs pointing out the obvious deficiencies in
Falcaro et al.’s suggestions for explaining variation in tensing rates because
I want to point out here that although I have been trying in this paper to
Luria’s biolinguistic suggestion and the growth of language 127
show how biological data and ideas can add to the study of language, how
Luria’s ideas can be instantiated, we have to realize that his idea has two
components, the integration of two types of data and analyses. Collecting
data on English OI’s and doing genetic analysis is very helpful, but one
cannot understand the implications of such data unless one understands
the great array of experimental findings about the OI stage, an array of
findings integrated and made possible through linguistic theory. There is
no Biolinguistics without linguistics. This is not a rhetorical statement, but
an extremely practical, science-oriented statement.
In fact, I would submit that Luria knew exactly what he was doing. He
called for the integration of linguistic theory and biology. He didn’t say
there should be an intermediary from psychology. My own view is just
that. Namely, we have reached the stage of development in linguistics and
in biology that we should try to directly integrate the concepts, looking for
genetic and physiological (neural) underpinnings of linguistic concepts.
“Psychological” concepts (procedural memory, etc.) should be avoided if at
all possible. They may be necessary in areas where we are confused, have
nothing to say, are trying to understand a miasma. But my “suggestion” is
that we attempt to integrate linguistics and biology in a direct manner.
These are two sciences with relatively clear concepts and a fairly obvious
intuitive reality. Inventing psychological intermediaries may be like
inventing the ether. In this chapter I have proposed one direction, a
direction that has attempted the route described by Luria’s Biolinguistic
Suggestion, with promising results. We are in the infancy of what may
turn out to be a hugely exciting, and overdue, development.
128 K E N W E X L E R
9
Parameters in language
acquisition
Lisa Pearl and Jeffrey Lidz
9.1 What a parameter is (or is meant to be),
and what it’s for
A parameter, in it simplest conception, is an abstraction that can account
for multiple observations in some domain. A parameter in statistical
modeling, for example, determines what the model predicts will be
observed in the world in a variety of situations; a parameter in our mental
model would determine what we predict will be observed in the world in
different scenarios.
In statistical modeling, there are numerous parameters defined mathe-
matically to account for the expected shape of data distributions. Take the
Gaussian distribution, sometimes called the “normal distribution” or “bell
curve,” which can be used as a simple statistical model to explain complex
phenomena (such as “how many minutes late to class I’ll be”). In this
model, the value of the measured variable (X in Figure 9.1 below) tends
to cluster around the mean μ. Two parameters are used to determine the
shape of the curve that represents the expected distribution of data: the
mean μ and the variance σ2
. These parameters are part of the fixed function
φ(X) (note the y axis label in Figure 9.1) that produces the probability of
X having a specific value:
φμ;σ
2
X
ð Þ ¼
1
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
2πσ2
p
−
X−μ
ð Þ2
2σ2
ð1Þ
While the function itself is invariant, the predictions produced with this
function vary based on the values of μ and σ2
. Changing the value of these
parameters demonstrably changes the expectation of how many data
points with particular values we expect to see (or comparably, how often
we expect to see a data point with a particular value).
In a related fashion, imagine that we are trying to determine the values
of μ and σ2
in the function φ(X) for some data that we observe. Observing
different quantities of data with particular values can tell us which values
of μ and σ2
are most likely. For instance, if we observe 1000 data points
whose values are mostly between −3 and −1 (perhaps producing a curve
like the leftmost one in Figure 9.1), we would be more likely to think that
μ is −2 rather than 0, and that smaller values of σ2
are more plausible than
large values. Even if we have never seen a data point with value 5, we can
expect that this data point is not very likely to occur, given what we have
inferred about the data distribution and how we can describe that data
distribution with the values of μ and σ2
. Importantly, we do not see the
process that generates the data, but only the data themselves. This means
that in order to form our expectations about X, we are, in effect, reverse
engineering the observable data in order to figure out how these data
were generated, given what we (perhaps unconsciously) know about
function φ(X) and variables μ and σ2
. Our knowledge of the underlying
function and the associated parameters that generate these data allows
us to represent an infinite number of expectations about the behavior of
variable X. Indeed, within the cognitive sciences, learning is generally
conceived as this kind of inverse problem: Given a set of observations
(e.g., sentences), learning consists of identifying the underlying system
that determined those observations (e.g., the grammar) (Chomsky 1965;
Gallistel 1990, inter alia). Notably, and perhaps particularly relevant for
the nativist view of language, knowing the function allows us to generate
an infinite number of expectations that are nonetheless constrained in
their behavior (here, constrained to obey this underlying function). Thus,
the hypothesis space consisting of the infinite expected behaviors, given
0.8
1.0
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
–5 –4 –3 –2 –1 1 2 3 4 5
0
ϕ
μ,σ
2
(χ)
χ
μ = 0, σ2
= 0.2,
μ = 0, σ2
= 1.0,
μ = 0, σ2 = 5.0,
μ = –2, σ2
= 0.5,
Figure 9.1 The Gaussian distribution, with different values of μ and σ2
. Courtesy of Wikipedia
Commons.
130 L I S A P E A R L A N D J E F F R E Y L I D Z
this function, is still smaller than the hypothesis space consisting of all
possible behaviors. Knowing the function thus narrows the hypothesis
space of expected behaviors, while still allowing an infinite number of
expected behaviors.
Meanwhile, statistical parameters of a function can help us describe
complex phenomena in a very compact way. By knowing one function
and the values of only two parameters, we can define a Gaussian data
distribution that predicts how likely we are to see a data point with a
particular value (“I’ll be 15 minutes late to class,” X = 15), without neces-
sarily observing that particular data point a large number of times – or
even at all. This, of course, is just one example of parameters used in
statistical modeling. There are numerous others, some of which have
been recently used in statistical modeling of language acquisition (see,
for example, Tenenbaum, Griffiths, and Kemp 2006; Goldwater, Griffiths,
and Johnson 2009; and Perfors, Tenenbaum, and Wonnacott 2010 for
examples of hierarchical Bayesian modeling that use a small number of
parameters).
In the domain of human language, both principles and parameters are
often thought of as innate domain-specific abstractions that connect to
many structural properties about language. Linguistic principles corre-
spond to the properties that are invariant across all human languages.
Using our statistical analogy from before, the equation’s form is invariant –
it is the statistical “principle” that explains the observed data. Linguistic
parameters correspond to the properties that vary across human lan-
guages. Again using our statistical analogy, the statistical parameters of
μ and σ2
determine the exact form of the curve that represents the like-
lihood of observing certain data. While different values for these parame-
ters can produce many different curves, these curves share their
underlying form due to the common invariant function in (1).
Since linguistic principles do not vary, they might not need to be learned
by the child. Parameter values, on the other hand, must be inferred from
the language data since languages do not all have the same parameter
values. As with the statistical parameters above, children must reverse
engineer the observable data to figure out the most likely way these data
were generated. Even given knowledge of linguistic principles and linguis-
tic parameters, children must still decide the most likely value for any
parameter.
The fact that parameters connect to multiple structural properties then
becomes a very good thing from the perspective of someone trying to
acquire language. This is because a child can learn about that parameter’s
value by observing many different kinds of examples in the language. As
Hyams (1987) notes, “the richer the deductive structure associated with a
particular parameter, the greater the range of potential ‘triggering’ data
which will be available to the child for the ‘fixing’ of the particular
parameter.”
Parameters in language acquisition 131
This idea figures prominently in hierarchical Bayesian models (see
Kemp, Perfors, and Tenenbaum 2007 for an accessible overview), where
a learner can make generalizations about the observable data at differ-
ent levels of abstraction. To take a non-linguistic example from Kemp
et al. (2007), suppose a learner must learn something about bags con-
taining marbles. Suppose this learner observed twenty bags, each of
which is filled with 100 black marbles or 100 white marbles. This
learner then sees a new bag, and is only shown one marble from it,
which happens to be purple. A hierarchical Bayesian learner will likely
make the following inference at this point: All the marbles in the new
bag are purple. The learner can make this inference because it is able to
learn something about properties of bags in general, sometimes called
an “overhypothesis” (Kemp et al. 2007), instead of only about bags con-
taining black or white marbles. Specifically here, bags seem to contain
only one color of marble. That is, by observing individual bag examples,
the hierarchical Bayesian learner has learned something about how to
compactly represent the structure of those bags’ composition – and it
infers this property will apply to bags in general. In this way, the more
abstract knowledge of marble bag composition has been triggered by
many individual examples of marble bags. More interestingly, this
learner was able to have certain expectations about a marble bag con-
taining a novel marble color by learning from bags containing only
black or white marbles.
Translating this to a linguistic example, suppose the marble bags are
individual sentences. Some sentences contain verbs and objects, and
whenever there is an object, suppose it appears after the verb (e.g., see
the penguin, rather than the penguin see). Other sentences contain modal
verbs and non-finite main verbs, and whenever both occur, the modal
precedes the main verb (e.g., could see, rather than see could). A learner
could be aware of the shared structure of these sentences – specifically
that these observable forms can be characterized as the head of a phrase
appearing before its complements (specifically [VP V NP] and [IP Aux VP]) –
and could encode this “head-first” knowledge at the level that describes
sentences in general, akin to a hierarchical Bayesian learner’s overhypo-
thesis. This learner would then infer that sentences in the language
generally have head-first structure. If this learner then saw a sentence
with a preposition surrounded by NPs (e.g. penguins on icebergs are ador-
able), it would infer that the preposition should precede its object
([NP penguins [PP on icebergs]] and not [NP [PP penguins on] icebergs]), even if
it had never seen a preposition used before with an object. In this way,
the notion of a head-directionality parameter (discussed further in
Section 9.3) can be encoded in a hierarchical learner. More broadly,
parameters are similar in spirit to the overhypotheses in a hierarchical
Bayesian learner: Inferences (e.g., about prepositional phrase internal
structure) can be made on the basis of examples that bear on the general
132 L I S A P E A R L A N D J E F F R E Y L I D Z
property being learned (e.g., head directionality), even if those examples
are not examples of the exact inference to be made (e.g., verb phrase
examples).
Parameters can be especially useful when a child is trying to learn the
things about language structure that are otherwise hard to learn, perhaps
because they are very complex properties themselves or because they
appear very infrequently in the available data. The way it would work is
this: Each hard-to-learn property is linked to a parameter that has at least
one easy-to-observe property connected to it. Through the easy-to-observe
property, children learn about the value of the parameter that is connected
to it. Through the parameter, the hard-to-learn property follows, perhaps
even without seeing any data that directly instantiate it. Thus, the param-
eter would allow children to observe data that fix the value of the hard-to-
learn property. So, structures that may not have been directly observed can
nonetheless be generated by the grammar.
If we think about the hypothesis space of a child trying to acquire
language, having parameters can make acquisition a lot easier (as argued
by Chomsky 1981b, 1986a). Instead of needing to identify the language
properties individually, the child now has a built-in shortcut since some
properties are connected to other properties, and can thus be acquired on
the basis of fewer (and perhaps less varied) observations. For example,
suppose we have 5 different structural properties in the language, each
of which is binary. If each property has to be learned individually, there
are 25
possible ways these 5 structural properties may be set. So, the
child’s hypothesis space contains 25
hypotheses of how the language
could work. To learn each property, the child must see data pertaining
to each property. (This many not seem so bad right now, but languages
clearly have many more properties than this. See Section 9.3 for some
suggested parameters.) Suppose now that there is one binary parameter
connected to each of these 5 binary language properties. This means that
if that one parameter is set to “yes,” all 5 connected properties have their
values set definitively one way (either to “yes” or to “no,” depending on
the property). If the parameter is instead set to “no,” the 5 connected
properties have their values set definitively the other way. So, the child’s
hypothesis space now contains only 2 hypotheses of how language could
work, one with the parameter set to “yes” and one with the parameter set
to “no.” Moreover, the child can learn about properties 2, 3, 4, and 5 by
observing data only for property 1 and learning what the parameter’s
value is. This would seem to be much easier than learning each property
individually.
So, in sum, the word “parameter” is simply the name given to those
abstract features of grammar (a) that govern many different observable
structures and (b) that vary from language to language. Its use in both the
theory of language acquisition and the theory of grammar typology is to
condense the representation of the language, thereby structuring the
Parameters in language acquisition 133
learning task for the child in such a way as to reduce the range of obser-
vations required to construct a grammar. In theory, this works by connect-
ing together observations that might otherwise need to be accounted for
independently from each other.
9.2 How do we tell what counts as a parameter?
Parameters seem useful in the abstract, but how do we define what a
parameter is? How do we recognize when we have found one?
Chomsky (1981b) imagines parameters much as we have discussed
them above: “we hope to find that complexes of properties … are reduci-
ble to a single parameter, fixed in one way or another.” That is, a param-
eter should connect to many different properties about a language, and
not simply apply only for one property. Safir (1987), in fact, cautions
against “describing any sort of language difference in terms of some ad
hoc parameter” in order to prevent a parametric theory from “licensing
mere description.” The point of parameters is to make the description of
language structure more compact in some sense. Having a parameter for
each point of variation in a language wouldn’t accomplish this very well.
Smith and Law (2009) note that parameters that connect to a variety of
linguistic properties are often referred to as “macro-parameters” while
“micro-parameters” are those that connect to only a few properties.
Macro-parameters seem to be more in line with the original spirit of
linguistic parameters.
Given that positing an independent parameter for each point of varia-
tion would undercut the explanatory value of parameters, it is important
to determine just what the right parameters are. Ideally, this will come
from the theory of comparative grammar and there are many proposals
which vary in their success at capturing the full range of observed varia-
tion (Newmeyer 2005).
One of the earliest parameters proposed concerned the nature of overt
subjects. Rizzi (1982) argued that a cluster of properties varied predictably
with whether overt subjects were obligatory. For example, languages that
do not require overt subjects in simple declaratives allow postverbal sub-
jects, do not exhibit expletive subjects, and do not exhibit that-trace effects
(see 2a below). Languages that require a subject in all simple declaratives,
however, do not allow postverbal subjects, do exhibit expletive subjects,
and do exhibit that-trace effects (see 2b below).
(2) Italian vs. English
(a) Italian
(i) −overt subject: verrá
3rd-sg-fut-come
“He will come”
134 L I S A P E A R L A N D J E F F R E Y L I D Z
(ii) +postverbal subject: verrá Gianni
3rd-sg-fut-come Gianni
“Gianni will come”
(iii) −expletive subjects: piove
3rd-sg-rain
“It’s raining”
(iv) −that-trace effect Che credi che verrá?
who 2nd-sg-think that 3rd-sg-fut-come
“Who do you think that will come”1
(b) English
(i) +overt subject: He will come.
* Will come.
(ii) −postverbal subject: Jack will come.
* Will come Jack.
(iii) +expletive subjects: It’s raining.
* Is raining.
(iv) +that-trace effect Who do you think will come?
* Who do you think that will come?
This proposal illustrated the potential benefits of parameters because it
solved what was believed at the time to be a poverty of the stimulus
problem for that-trace effects. Specifically, the problem was that English-
learning children could observe the optionality of complementizers in
declaratives and even in object wh-questions (3). They might then reason-
ably extend this optionality to subject wh-questions (2b iv).
(3) Optionality of complementizers
(a) declaratives: Jack thought (that) Lily would eat lunch.
(b) object wh-questions: What did Jack think (that) Lily would eat?
Such an extension would be problematic because complementizers are
disallowed in subject wh-questions in the adult English grammar. However,
a child with an over-general grammar (which allowed a complementizer in
subject wh-questions) would never receive direct evidence that complemen-
tizers in subject wh-questions were not allowed – the few subject wh-
questions they encountered (which would not have a complementizer)
would be compatible with their incorrect grammar. Thus, to the extent
that English speakers exhibit the that-trace effect, a poverty of the stimulus
problem exists because the input data are compatible with a grammar that
exhibits that-trace effects and also with a grammar that does not.
However, if the presence of that-trace effects followed from the same
parameter setting that determined the nature of subjects, then there
simply would be no learnability problem. The relevant data for determin-
ing the obligatory absence of complementizers in subject wh-questions
would come from the requirement of overt subjects in declaratives and the
necessity of expletive subjects. Observing those data, children would set
Parameters in language acquisition 135
the parameter to the correct value, and then predict that complementizers
were not allowed in subject wh-questions. There would be no overgener-
alization based on the optionality of complementizers in declaratives and
object wh-questions, because children would already have knowledge
pertaining to complementizers in subject wh-questions due to this param-
eter’s value, and would thereby circumvent the poverty of the stimulus
problem.
The generalization that that-trace effects are linked to the nature of
subjects has been questioned (Gilligan 1987; Newmeyer 2005), but for
our purposes the example serves to illustrate the potential explanatory
power of parameters. A parameter is best posited when (a) a cluster of
seemingly unrelated properties varies in a systematic way across lan-
guages and (b) the parameter solves potential poverty of the stimulus
problems.
Sometimes, suggested parameters only seem to connect to a single
simple structural variation (for example, object before verb or verb before
object in main clauses, or whether the main stress of a word is on the left or
the right). Hopefully, at least one of the following happens: (1) these simple
structural parameters turn out to be connected to other structural proper-
ties in the language (for example, perhaps object–verb order is connected
to the order of heads and complements of phrases in general) and/or (2)
these parameters are still a more compact representation of the generative
system used to produce the language data than alternative options (for
example, perhaps having stress parameters is simpler than individually
memorizing stress contours for every word and using analogy to generate
new stress contours). By doing either of these things, such parameters may
help aid acquisition.
9.3 Using parameters to learn
Of course, even if the child’s hypothesis space is constrained by parame-
ters, this doesn’t mean that the language acquisition problem is solved.
Parameters do solve the problem of what hypotheses to consider about
how a language works, and if they can be set correctly, they may alleviate
certain poverty of the stimulus problems. Still, children must decide
among the available alternatives – and this has proved to be a difficult
decision process to model. As an example, suppose children’s hypothesis
space is defined by n binary parameters. This leads to a hypothesis space of
2n
possible grammars, one for each setting of the n parameters. If n is small,
say 5, perhaps this doesn’t seem so bad: 25
is only 32 options, after all. But
given the variety of linguistic properties that appear cross-linguistically
(see Baker (2001) for an accessible survey of some), n is likely to be larger
than this. If n includes only 25 parameters, we already have a hypothesis
space of 33,554,432 (225
) grammars, which seems like a much more
136 L I S A P E A R L A N D J E F F R E Y L I D Z
difficult acquisition problem indeed. To converge on the right grammar in,
say, eight years, a child would have to eliminate just under 11,500 poten-
tial grammars every day.
The simple fact is that, while parameters may help constrain the hypoth-
esis space, every time we add a new one the hypothesis space doubles in
size (e.g., a parameter space with 5 binary parameters is half the size of a
parameter space with 6 binary parameters (25
= 32, 26
= 64)). Clearly, the
more we can reduce the number of parameters, the easier the acquisition
problem will be. Still, from the learner’s perspective, this is better than an
unconstrained hypothesis space, where the number of potential gram-
mars is potentially infinite.
Yet the number of parameters is not the only difficulty. Children must
also decide among the grammars defined by these parameters using the
available data, and this turns out not to be so easy sometimes. Because the
parameters are abstract and govern a wide range of surface phenomena, it
is not always obvious which data uniquely determine any particular
parameter setting (Clark 1992; Gibson and Wexler 1994; Niyogi and
Berwick 1996; Pearl 2008, 2009, 2011). Some parameters may interact,
meaning that the effect of one parameter masks the effect of another
parameter for a particular data point.
For example, consider the domain of metrical phonology, which
describes the system for generating stress contours for words (that is,
what makes “EMphasis” different from “emPHAsis”). Some researchers
(Dresher 1999; Halle and Vergnaud 1987; Halle and Idsardi 1995, among
others) believe that stress contours are generated by grouping syllables
together into larger units called metrical feet, and then stressing various
syllables based on properties of those metrical feet. Languages vary in the
way that they form metrical feet and in the way they assign stress to
metrical feet. Two parameters commonly associated with this view are
extrametricality and foot headedness, shown in (4).
(4) Some metrical phonology parameters
(a) Extrametricality: whether all syllables are included in metrical feet,
or whether some are left out (and are therefore “extra”metrical).
(b) Foot Headedness: whether the rightmost or leftmost syllable of a
metrical foot is stressed (and so whether the “head” of the metrical
foot is to the right or to the left).
Suppose a child is trying to determine both whether her language allows
extrametrical syllables and what syllable within a foot is stressed. Suppose
she hears the word “giRAFFE.” She might come up with the following
analyses for explaining why that stress contour is observed:
(5) Analyses for “giRAFFE”2
(a) +extrametrical (leftmost syllable), metrical feet headed on the left:
The syllable “gi” is extrametrical and not included in a metrical
Parameters in language acquisition 137
foot. There is one metrical foot, and it includes “raffe”. As it is the
leftmost syllable in the metrical foot, it is stressed.
Analysis: gi raffe
(i) +extrametrical (left) gi (raffe)
(ii) foot-headed-left gi (RAFFE)
(b) +extrametrical (leftmost syllable), metrical feet headed on the
right: The syllable “gi” is extrametrical and not included in a
metrical foot. There is one metrical foot, and it includes “raffe.”
As it is the rightmost syllable in the metrical foot, it is stressed.
Analysis: gi raffe
(i) +extrametrical (left) gi (raffe)
(ii) foot-headed-right gi (RAFFE)
(c) −extrametrical, metrical feet headed on the right: There is one
metrical foot, and it includes “gi” and “raffe.” “raffe” is the right-
most syllable of the metrical foot, so it is stressed.
Analysis: gi raffe
(i) −extrametrical (gi raffe)
(ii) foot-headed-right (gi RAFFE)
Here, extrametricality seems to be masking whether the language has
metrical feet headed on the left or on the right, and foot headedness seems
to be masking whether the language has extrametricality. If the child
knew the language was −extrametrical, the foot headedness value would
be known (feet headed on the right (4c)); conversely, if the child knew that
the language had feet headed on the left, then the extrametricality value
would be known (+extrametrical on the leftmost syllable (4a)). However,
neither value is known, and so it is difficult to tell what parameter combi-
nation generated this data point.
We can find a similar situation in syntax if we look at the parameters
some researchers have called verb-second movement and head direction-
ality. First, verb-second movement: Several linguists (Chomsky 1981b;
Cook and Newson 1996; Guasti 2002; Sakas 2003; Yang 2004, among
others) have described a parameter that leads to the transposition of
subjects and auxiliaries in English questions (6) and to the tensed verb
always being in second phrasal position in languages like German (7a,b). It
should be noted that while English has this verbal movement for ques-
tions, it does not require the tensed verb to be in second phrasal position in
declarative clauses (8). Thus, this verb movement parameter has different
effects on observable word order, depending on clause type (declarative vs.
interrogative).
(6) Transposition of the subject and auxiliary verb in English question
formation
(a) Underlying sentence: The penguin must eat fish.
(b) Yes/No question: Must the penguin eat fish?
138 L I S A P E A R L A N D J E F F R E Y L I D Z
(7) Second phrasal position of the tensed verb in German
(a) Der Pinguin isst Fisch.
the penguin eats fish
“The penguin eats fish”
(b) Fisch isst der Pinguin.
fish eats the penguin
“The penguin eats fish”
(c) Der Pinguin muss Fisch essen.
The penguin must fish eat
“The penguin must eat fish”
(d) Fisch muss der Pinguin essen.
fish must the penguin eat
“The penguin must eat fish”
(8) Non-second phrasal position of the tensed verb in English
(a) The penguin usually eats fish.
(b) Sometimes the penguin eats fish.
The head directionality parameter (Baker 2001; Cook and Newson 1996),
concerns the position of phrasal heads (for example, the verb in a verb
phrase) with respect to the phrasal complement (for example, the object of
the verb in the verb phrase). The idea is that a language consistently has
the heads of its phrases all on the same side of the complements of all its
phrases, whether the head is first in the phrase (head-first: English, Edo,
Thai, Zapotec) (9a) or the head is last in the phrase (head-last: Lakhota,
Japanese, Basque, Amharic) (9b).
(9) Head-first vs. head-last languages
(a) English is head-first
for the penguin: the preposition for is before its object the penguin in
the preposition phrase
hugged the penguin: the verb hugged is before its object the penguin in
the verb phrase
(b) Lakhota is head-last
Jack wowapi k’uhe oyu
˛ke ki ohlate iyeye.
Jack letter that bed the under found
“Jack found that letter under the bed”
The verb iyeye is after its objects (wowapi k’uhe and oyu
˛ke ki ohlate)
and the preposition ohlate is after its object (oyu
˛ke ki).
Suppose a German child hears the sentence in (10) and is trying to deter-
mine the value of the verb-second and head-directionality parameters.
(10) Example German sentence
Ich liebe Pinguine.
I love-1st-sG penguins
Parameters in language acquisition 139
SUBJECT VERB OBJECT
“I love penguins.”
Here, the verb’s complement is the object (Pinguine), and the child
might come up with the following analyses to explain the observed word
order:
(11) Analyses for Ich liebe Pinguine
(a) −verb-second, heads precede their complements:
Underlying order: Ich liebe Pinguine
Subj Verb Obj
Observable order: Ich liebe Pinguine
Subj Verb Obj
(b) +verb-second, heads precede their complements:
Underlying order: Ich liebe Pinguine
Subj Verb Obj
Observable order: Ich liebe tIch tliebe Pinguine
Subj Verb tSubj tVerb Obj
(c) +verb-second, heads follow their complements:
Underlying order: Ich Pinguine liebe
Subj Obj Verb
Observable order: Ich liebe tIch Pinguine tliebe
Subj Verb tSubj Obj tVerb
We again find that one parameter seems be masking the effects of the
other. If the child knew the language was −verb-second, then the value of
the head directionality parameter would be clear for this data point
(heads precede their complements (11a)); conversely, if the child knew
heads followed their complements, then the value of the verb-second
parameter would be clear for this data point (the language has verb-
second movement (11c)). Since both parameters are undetermined, how-
ever, extracting the right values for them from this data point is not
straightforward.
As we noted in the introduction, the main trouble is that children don’t
see the process that produces the data – they only see the data themselves.
Children must infer the most likely parameter values from the observable
data, and the observable data may be (and often are) ambiguous as to
which parameter values were used to generate them. So, even if children
know the set of parameters and the potential values these parameters
might take, acquisition still has some obstacles left.
This leaves open a number of questions about the parameter-setting
process, which we explore in the remainder of this section:
* Are parameter settings represented as deterministic or probabilistic?
More specifically, at any one stage, does the child maintain a single
hypothesis about which way the parameter is set (like a light switch)?
140 L I S A P E A R L A N D J E F F R E Y L I D Z
Alternatively, does the child maintain multiple hypotheses along with
a confidence value (more like a dimmer switch between extremes)?
* Do children make inferences from a large quantity of data all at once,
or do they make inferences incrementally as they encounter the data?
* Do children attempt to learn parameters individually, or are parame-
ters learned only as part of an entire grammar that succeeds or fails at
analyzing the observable data? If parameters are learned individually
(rather than as an ensemble), what causes a change in a child’s hypoth-
esis for a parameter value?
* Which data are used to set parameters?
* Do children need to follow particular parameter-setting orders?
* What happens when children do not encounter sufficient informative
data?
9.3.1 Light switches or light dimmers?
Suppose a child is attempting to learn the value for a particular parameter,
such as extrametricality in the metrical phonology system. Two main
options exist: The language either has extrametricality or it does not. We
could imagine at least two ways children might explore the different
hypotheses. Perhaps they choose a parameter value to start off with at
random, maintain that value as their working hypothesis, and only discard
it for the alternative hypothesis if it fails to analyze the input data success-
fully (Fodor and Sakas 2004; Gibson and Wexler 1994; Niyogi and Berwick
1996; Sakas 2003; Sakas and Fodor 2001; Sakas and Nishimoto 2002).
Parameter-setting behaves as a light switch that can only choose one
option at a time. One issue with this approach is that it predicts that the
child’s learning behavior should exhibit abrupt changes with each change
in parameter value – and once the correct parameter value is acquired, the
child should use it all the time.3
We would never expect children to go
back to using the incorrect hypothesis if they are only maintaining the
single correct hypothesis. This does not seem to map well to what we know
of children’s behavior – the trajectory of acquisition appears to be more
gradual, with children intermixing correct and incorrect linguistic behav-
ior for a period of time before they converge on the correct hypothesis
alone (see, for example, Hochberg 1988).4
An alternative is that perhaps children place some belief in both hypoth-
eses to begin with, and gradually alter their belief in which hypothesis is
correct based on the ability of each hypothesis to account for the input
data (Clark 1992; Legate and Yang 2007; Pearl 2009, 2011; Pearl and Lidz
2009; Pearl and Weinberg 2007; Yang 2002, 2004). Parameter-setting here
behaves more like a light dimmer, with the “switch” resting at a position
between two options and its relative position indicating which option is
more likely. If this is more similar to how children set their parameters,
children’s learning behavior can easily intermix different parametric
Parameters in language acquisition 141
options. The different options are simply accessed probabilistically,
depending on the belief the child has in each option. For example, if a
child places 60% probability in the language being extrametrical and 40%
probability in the language not being extrametrical, this child might
choose to produce linguistic data that use extrametricality 60% of the
time and linguistic data that do not use extrametricality 40% of the time.
As children are exposed to more input, they alter their beliefs in the
different options until the correct option is most likely (a probability
near 100%) and the incorrect option is not at all likely (a probability near
0%). Notably, this takes some time, during which the child will probabilisti-
cally access both hypotheses and so use both parameter values. This
account thus seems to accord better with observable child language acquis-
ition behavior.
9.3.2 Batch learning or incremental learning?
When children are updating their hypothesis about the correct parameter
value, do they amass a quantity of data points and then update based on
the inferences that come from those data as a group (batch learning) or do
they update as the data come in (incremental learning)? The question of
batch vs. incremental learning is really dealing with a larger issue in the
language acquisition literature, specifically this: What question are we
trying to answer about language acquisition?
The question of learnability is asking what is, in principle, possible to
learn given the available data. This concerns what information may be
useful given the available data and the knowledge that must be learned,
but typically without considering constraints that humans have when
learning the knowledge from the data. Models answering this question
are called “ideal learner,” “rational,” or “computational-level” models
(Foraker et al. 2009; Goldwater, Griffiths, and Johnson 2009; Hsu and
Chater 2010; Perfors, Tenenbaum, and Regier 2006, 2011). Because these
models assume no memory constraints and no processing constraints,
they use batch learning (usually over an entire corpus’s worth of data)
and may use inference procedures that are unlikely to be used by humans.
The question of acquirability is asking what is possible to learn given the
available data, and the constraints children have when they use that
available data to learn. Models answering this question are sometimes
called “algorithmic-level” models (Fodor and Sakas 2004; Gibson and
Wexler 1994; Legate and Yang 2007; Niyogi and Berwick 1996; Pearl
2009, 2011; Pearl, Goldwater, and Steyvers 2010, 2011; Pearl and Lidz
2009; Pearl and Mis 2011; Pearl and Weinberg 2007; Sakas 2003; Sakas
and Fodor 2001; Sakas and Nishimoto 2002; Yang 2002, 2004) referring to
Marr’s second level of representation for questions of information process-
ing (Marr 1982). Because these models assume children have memory
constraints, they often make the simplifying assumption that children
142 L I S A P E A R L A N D J E F F R E Y L I D Z
process data as they are encountered (incremental learning), rather than
storing detailed data for analysis later on. These models also typically
assume children have processing constraints and try to use inference
algorithms or inference algorithm approximations that are more likely
to be feasible given these processing constraints.
If we are interested in explaining children’s observable behavior,
computational-level models can help us determine if the acquisition prob-
lem is solvable in principle when framed a particular way (e.g. Can children
learn the correct setting of the extrametricality parameter, given these
data?). If the acquisition problem is not solvable even in principle, this
suggests that something is amiss in the formulation of the acquisition
problem – perhaps the knowledge to be attained is not what we think
it is, or the child has additional restrictions on potential hypotheses that
we are not considering (see Pearl 2011 for more discussion of this point for
metrical phonology parameters). Once we determine that an acquisition
problem is solvable in principle, we can then use algorithmic-level models
to determine if it is solvable by constrained learners such as children. This
allows us to explore what is required to make knowledge that is learnable in
principle acquirable in practice.
9.3.3 Parameters: Ensembles or individuals?
Several researchers have viewed the acquisition problem as a search prob-
lem within the hypothesis space of possible grammars (Clark 1992; Gibson
and Wexler 1994; Niyogi and Berwick 1996; Pearl 2009, 2011; Yang 2002) –
which of these grammars are able to account for the data in the input, and
which aren’t? A learning algorithm like this is error-driven, with gram-
mars treated as atomic units that either perform well on the data or
perform poorly. While children recognize that grammars are comprised
of parameters with particular values, and these values can be changed, the
performance of the grammar as a whole is what counts. In essence, the
child rewards a successful grammar and punishes an unsuccessful one.
Computational-modeling researchers have instantiated this idea in vari-
ous ways. Clark (1992) imagines the child scoring grammars based on their
relative “fitness”; grammars able to account for more data are viewed as
more fit and rewarded, while grammars able to account for less data are less
fit and punished. The child rewards and punishes grammars as a whole,
rather than keeping track of the fitness of the parameters within the
grammars. Gibson and Wexler (1994) and Niyogi and Berwick (1996) view
the child as rewarding or punishing individual parameters within gram-
mars, based on the grammars’ ability to account for the data. If the current
grammar cannot account for the current data point, the child may choose to
consider a new grammar that differs from the old one by a single parameter
value as long as this new grammar accounts for the data point in question.
In this way, parameters that were not the problem do not get punished.
Parameters in language acquisition 143
Yang (2002) and Pearl (2009, 2011) extend this idea by allowing param-
eter values to be rewarded or punished probabilistically, based on the
performance of grammars using these values. Rather than getting rid of a
parameter value if a new grammar without it can account for the data,
the child simply lessens her confidence in that parameter by lessening
her confidence in all the parameters involved in the unsuccessful gram-
mar. Some parameter values are certainly unfairly punished this way, but
the idea is that those unfairly punished will be part of successful gram-
mars later on and be rewarded, while the real culprits will only be part of
unsuccessful grammars, and so continually be punished. The upshot is
that the child does not necessarily know which parameter was the culprit
for any given failure of a grammar to account for data, but can still track
how confident she is that any given parameter value is a good one for the
language by the performance of grammars as a whole on the data she
encounters. This can skirt the issue of blame assignment (sometimes
known as the credit problem (Dresher 1999)) that arises for ambiguous
data (see examples (5) and (11) above). Specifically, the child does not
need to pinpoint which parameter is at fault in order to get information
out of an ambiguous data point. She simply observes if the current
parameter values under consideration are able to collectively analyze
the data point, and updates her confidence in those parameter values
accordingly.
This last part about tracking individual parameters (even indirectly) is
quite useful because it helps reduce the hypothesis space for acquisition.
To illustrate this, suppose a child knows there are 25 binary parameters. If
the child views the problem as a search among grammars made up of these
25 parameters, there are 225
(33,554,432) hypotheses. If instead the child
views the problem as setting 25 parameters in one of two ways, the
hypothesis space is more like 25*2 = 50. That is, there are 25 choices with
2 options each. Of course, these 25 choices can produce 225
different
grammars, but that is not what the child is explicitly tracking: She only
cares which way each parameter is set. So, if the child focuses instead on
what the choice is for each parameter, rather than on how grammars as a
whole perform, the hypothesis space is much smaller.
9.3.4 Getting the most out of your data?
Several researchers have considered how children might explicitly track
the values for specific parameters. Based on computational modeling
results like Gibson and Wexler (1994) and Niyogi and Berwick (1996),
researchers such as Fodor (1998), Dresher (1999), and Lightfoot (1999)
propose that children are specifically keying into parts of the observable
data that are linked to a specific parameter value. In particular, children
are waiting for data that are unambiguous with respect to a given para-
meter. This requires that children already know what parts of the observable
144 L I S A P E A R L A N D J E F F R E Y L I D Z
data are important for a given parameter, or can derive it for each parameter
value in some way.5
Still, once they have this knowledge, acquisition is much
simpler. The main point is that the process of acquisition is inherently
different for a child interested only in identifying the correct parameter
values for her language: She is scouring the data for the relevant pieces,
rather than worrying about which grammar can account for the most
observed data.
Of course, this doesn’t mean children would ignore the available data.
Rather, they scour the data for the unambiguous “cues” (Dresher 1999;
Lightfoot 1999) or designated structures (Fodor 1998), and reward param-
eter values that are best able to account for the distribution of these
specific data. The difference is subtle, but important. A child interested
in matching the data with an entire grammar will, naturally, choose the
parameter values that belong to the grammar that fits the data the best. A
child interested in tracking cues within the data for different parameter
values may end up choosing a grammar comprised of parameter values
that individually match the data the best, but which, when combined into
a grammar, are less compatible with the data.
Let’s consider an example from metrical phonology that demonstrates
this from Pearl (2008). The English metrical phonology system is thought
to have the rightmost syllable of the word be extrametrical (+extramet-
rical) (Dresher 1999). If a child tracks which grammar as a whole is
compatible with the most English child-directed speech data, the answer
is a grammar that has no extrametricality (−extrametricality). However,
if a child is searching for unambiguous data regarding extrametricality,
the cues for +extrametricality are more frequent than the cues for −extra-
ametricality.6
In this way, a child looking at overall grammar “fitness”
can end up with a different answer than a child looking for unambiguous
cues to parameter values in the data – and in this case, we think it is the
child using unambiguous data who ends up with the right answer for
English.
9.3.5 Who goes ﬁrst?
A factor that appears when the child is considering parameters individu-
ally this way is the “learning path” (Dresher 1999; Lightfoot 1989, 1999;
Baker 2005; Pearl 2008), which is the order in which the child learns the
values of the parameters. If the child is comparing grammars as a whole,
this does not matter – parameters function solely as part of a grammar, and
the grammar either succeeds or doesn’t. However, when a child is learning
parameters values individually, there are a variety of orders that parame-
ter values might be learned in. Because parameters interact, learning the
value of one parameter may influence the child’s interpretation of the data
to come. Let’s consider an example from before, (5) repeated (more briefly)
here as (12).
Parameters in language acquisition 145
(12) Analyses for “giRAFFE”
(a) +extrametrical (leftmost syllable), feet-headed-left:
Analysis: gi (RAFFE)
(b) +extrametrical (leftmost syllable), feet-headed-right:
Analysis: gi (RAFFE)
(c) −extrametrical, feet-headed-right:
Analysis: (gi RAFFE)
Suppose the child did not know whether the metrical feet in the lan-
guage were headed on the left or headed on the right. Given that lack of
knowledge, this data point is ambiguous for extrametricality, since there
are analyses for both +extrametricality and −extrametricality. A child
learning from unambiguous data therefore learns nothing from this data
point. However, suppose that same child encountered this data point after
learning that the language had metrical feet headed on the left. Then, the
only analysis remaining is (12a), with +extrametricality. This same data
point is now perceived as unambiguous for the extrametricality parame-
ter, where before it was not.
The learning path turns out to be crucial for learning the English met-
rical phonology systems using parameters. Pearl (2008) discovered that a
child tracking unambiguous data probabilities will decide on the correct
parameter values for English, but only if the parameters are learned in
particular orders. This has a direct implication for acquisition – not only do
English children need to know the parameters and values these parame-
ters can take, but they also need to know what order to learn parameters
in. Fortunately, the learning path knowledge sometimes turns out to be
derivable from properties like the distribution of data in the input (see
Pearl 2007 for discussion). And perhaps this is a small price to pay for being
able to reduce the hypothesis space by learning about parameters
individually.
One reason why unambiguous data are so useful is that they provide
maximally informative data. Since unambiguous data, by definition, are
compatible with only one value for a parameter, they strongly signal that
this parameter value is the right one. This leads to another good reason to
consolidate current ideas about parameters, so that more structural prop-
erties about the language are connected. If structural properties are linked
through a parameter, unambiguous data for one structural property serve
as unambiguous data for all the rest of the structural properties linked by
that parameter. For example, suppose our current conception of language
parameters results in the following situation: Parameter P1 has some
unambiguous data while parameter P2 does not. This is problematic for
an unambiguous learner. However, suppose that parameters P1 and P2
are really related, and so actually are both instances of parameter P*. Since
unambiguous data exist for P1, and P1 tells us about P*, we then have
unambiguous data for P2 (which is also an instance of P*). In general,
146 L I S A P E A R L A N D J E F F R E Y L I D Z
consolidating parameters seems to be a good idea, as unambiguous data
are not all that common. Pearl (2008) shows that the most frequent unam-
biguous data for parameters in the metrical phonology domain investi-
gated made up less than 5% of the child’s available input. In fact, one of the
criticisms of the unambiguous data approach was that unambiguous data
may not really exist for all parameters. At that point, a child learning only
from unambiguous data would be in big trouble.
One solution would be to back off on the claim that children only learn
from unambiguous data, under the assumption that unambiguous data
really are non-existent (or at least very rare) for some parameters. While
children probably should not learn from the data if said data are com-
pletely ambiguous, there may be many data points that are only some-
what ambiguous, rather than completely ambiguous. For example,
consider again our metrical phonology analyses for “giRAFFE,” repeated
here as (13):
(13) Analyses for “giRAFFE”
(a) +extrametrical (leftmost syllable), feet-headed-left:
Analysis: gi (RAFFE)
(b) +extrametrical (leftmost syllable), feet-headed-right:
Analysis: gi (RAFFE)
(c) −extrametrical, feet-headed-right:
Analysis: gi (RAFFE)
A child considering these three analyses does not unambiguously know
which value is correct for extrametricality and feet headedness. However,
she still might be able to place some confidence in one value over the other
based on the number of analyses that include one value vs. the other. In
this case, since two of the three analyses involve +extrametricality, she
might believe that +extrametricality is more likely than −extrametricality;
similarly, since two of three analyses involve metrical feet headed on the
right, she might believe right-headed metrical feet are more likely than
left-headed metrical feet for the language. So, while an unambiguous
learner would ignore this data point as uninformative, a child leveraging
whatever information is available might find this data point partially
informative. This means that even if no unambiguous data exist for a
given parameter, some informative data may still exist. A child willing to
learn from any informative data is not in nearly so tough a spot as a child
waiting for unambiguous data (cf. Fodor and Sakas 2004 for a striking
example of this in syntactic acquisition). Recent computational modeling
research has shown that this is a powerful idea for learning structural
properties such as the fact that language has hierarchical structure
(Perfors, Tenenbaum, and Regier 2006, 2011) and the structure that the
English referential element one has (Foraker et al. 2009; Pearl and Lidz 2009;
Pearl and Mis 2011; Regier and Gahl 2004).
Parameters in language acquisition 147
9.3.6 Insufﬁcient data: Does not compute?
Still, there may be some cases where a language provides no unambiguous
data and also has very little informative data of any kind. This can happen
when a parameter is not used in a particular language. While all parame-
ters may be available in all human minds, some may only come into play
when certain other structural properties of the language hold. For exam-
ple, Baker (2001) describes a parameter known as “adjective neutraliza-
tion” which determines whether adjectives are treated like verbs or like
nouns in the language. Importantly, this is only relevant for polysynthetic
languages like Mohawk and Walpiri. Non-polysynthetic languages, like
English, do not use this parameter. So, perhaps unsurprisingly, English
does not include informative data that show adjective neutralization.
Another example of a parameter with very little informative data in a
given language is verb-raising in Korean.
Verb-raising concerns the position of the tensed verb with respect to
adverbs/negative elements (Baker 2001, Cook and Newson 1996, Yang
2004, among others). When a clause has both tense (e.g., +present) and
an adverb or negative element (e.g., often, not), languages vary on the
position of the verb. In some languages, such as French, the verb “raises”
or is “attracted” to the structural position of the tense, so that it ends up as
a tensed verb preceding adverbs or negative elements (14a). In other
languages, such as English, this does not happen, and the verb appears to
follow adverbs or negative elements (14b). However, in a head-final lan-
guage like Korean, very few data points distinguish whether Korean is
+verb-raising or −verb-raising (14c), since the verb occurs in the same
linear position independent of its structural height (see Han, Lidz, and
Musolino (2007)).
(14) Verb-raising variation
(a) +verb-raising (French)
Underlying: Jean [+present] souvent/pas voir Marie
Jean often /not see-inf Marie
Observable: Jean voit souvent/pas Marie
Jean see-present often /not Marie
“Jean often sees Marie”/ “Jean does not see Marie.”
(b) −verb-raising (English)
Underlying: John [+present] often see Mary.
Observable: John often sees Mary.
Underlying: John [+present] not see Mary.
Observable: John does not see Mary.
(c) ?verb-raising (Korean)
(i) Underlying: Yuri cacwu Toli-lil ttyali [-n-ta]
Yuri often Toli-acc hit-inf [pres-decl]
148 L I S A P E A R L A N D J E F F R E Y L I D Z
(ii) Observable Yuri cacwu Toli-lul ttayli-n-ta
Yuri often Toli-acc hit-pres-decl
“Yuri often hits Toli.”
(iii) Analysis 1:
+verb-raising Yuri cacwu Toli-lul tttayli ttayli-n-ta
Yuri often Toli-acc thit hit-pres-decl
“Yuri often hits Toli.”
(iv) Analysis 2:
−verb-raising Yuri cacwu Toli-lul ttayli-n-ta tn-ta
Yuri often Toli-acc hit-pres-decl tpres-decl
“Yuri often hits Toli.”
Except in very rare constructions, the effects of verb-raising are
masked in Korean due to other structural properties of the language.
Because of this, children and most adults may not encounter enough
data to decide whether their language has verb-raising or not. More
specifically, almost all data are compatible with both raising the verb
and not raising the verb. What does this mean for Korean speakers? Do
they simply pick one value in the absence of any informative data? Or do
they leave it as undecided, so that if pressed to show knowledge of the
parameter, they would flip flop between the two options with some
probability? In the case of Korean, Han, Lidz, and Musolino (2007)
found that there seemed to be two groups of adult speakers: those that
raise their verb and those that do not. Very few speakers were willing to
allow both options with some probability. So, this seems to indicate that
Korean speakers had selected a parameter value despite having very little
informative data. Still, perhaps the few data points they encountered in
their lifetimes were enough to influence their choice – some statistical
learning techniques are able to capitalize on very small amounts of data
in the input (see Foraker et al. 2009 for an example of this). However,
when Han, Lidz, and Musolino examined children’s knowledge, children
too seemed to split into a group that raises their verbs and a group that
does not. It is possible that these children also may have all encountered
just enough informative data, but the likelihood is much less. Instead, it
may be that children really were choosing one parameter value in the
absence of informative data. If so, this tells us something very interesting
about how the human mind functions during language acquisition.
Specifically, this suggests that the human mind prefers to make decisions
and set a parameter – even for seemingly irrelevant parameters – rather
than allow optionality to exist at this structural level of representation.
That is, even if a parameter does not appear to be used in a language, the
human mind prefers to set it than leave it unset.
An increasingly common way to explore how exactly the human mind
learns with parameters is to use computational modeling. Computational
modeling gives us very precise control over the language acquisition
Parameters in language acquisition 149
process, including what hypotheses the child entertains, what data are
considered relevant, and how the child changes belief in different hypoth-
eses based on the data. For learning with parameters, we can control which
parameters are considered, and which values of those parameters are
considered. We can also control if children learn only from unambiguous
data, or consider other kinds of data informative. In addition, we can
control if data are immediately influential, or if a child waits until she
has some confidence that the data really do indicate a particular parameter
value is correct. A variety of data are available from experimental studies
that show us what a child’s input data really look like, and we can ground
our models with this empirical data to make them as much like a child’s
language acquisition process as possible. When we have a model like this,
we can embody ideas like “learning only from unambiguous data” and
“waiting until the data are really conclusive.” If some of these ideas are
required for the model to behave like children do, this tells us that these
ideas may do a good job of describing how the human mind acquires
language. For instance, if we find that, when given Korean data, one
model ends up setting the verb-raising parameter while another model
prefers to leave it unset, this suggests that the first model is a more
accurate representation of the language acquisition process.
This last point is relevant for computational models that use statistical
analyses such as Bayesian inference when compared to models that use
update algorithms such as linear reward-penalty (e.g., see work by Pearl
(Pearl 2009, 2011) and Yang (Legate and Yang 2007; Yang 2002, 2004)).
Suppose a learner begins with two hypotheses, and gives each a probabil-
ity of 0.5. A Bayesian inference model that receives no input will not
update the probabilities since both hypotheses are still equally likely. In
contrast, a learner using a variational learning update process (see discus-
sion of this update process in Section 9.4 below) will end up converging to
one hypothesis or the other. This is due to the random fluctuations that are
part of this style of update, with small random preferences being magni-
fied over time. Still, it should be noted that very little data are very differ-
ent than no data for a Bayesian learner, while this difference is not so
dramatic for a linear reward-penalty learner. Thus, to decide between
these two kinds of updating processes, it may matter very much that
there is very little data that children could notice, as opposed to there
actually being no informative data in the input at all.
9.4 Speciﬁc examples of learning with parameters
Let’s now look at a few examples of computational models that investigate
language acquisition using parameters. We will look within the domains
of syntactic acquisition and metrical phonology, and find that the same
considerations seem to arise about what the relevant data are and how the
150 L I S A P E A R L A N D J E F F R E Y L I D Z
learning algorithm should work, even if the hypothesis space (consisting
of particular parameters) is agreed upon. In addition, all these models
share something besides using parameters to define the hypothesis
space: They all seek to combine insights from statistical learning into a
cognitively plausible model.
For syntactic acquisition, work by Yang (2002, 2004) has examined the
problem of learning the correct parameter values from the data children
encounter, such as whether or not the language has verb-second movement
and movement of wh-words to the front of the clause in questions. All of
Yang’s models use the frequencies of data found in child-directed speech
samples. As mentioned in the previous section, Yang’s models, often called
“variational learners,” do not specifically look for highly informative data;
instead, they consider all data relevant for learning. The particular
algorithm used by Yang incorporates a model from mathematical psycho-
logy called the linear reward-penalty scheme (Bush and Mosteller 1951).
The algorithm recognizes that each parameter has two competing values
(e.g., ±wh-fronting). Initially, the model associates a probability of 0.5 with
each, representing its belief that each parameter value is equally likely. This
probability is then altered, based on the data encountered.
For each data point, the variational learner generates a grammar based
on the current probabilities associated with all parameter values.
For instance, when generating the value for the wh–movement parameter,
the model uses the probabilities associated with +wh-movement and −wh-
movement. Suppose they are 0.40 and 0.60 respectively; then, the model
will use the +wh-movement value with 40% probability and the −wh-
movement value with 60% probability. This value selection process
continues until all parameter values have been selected and a complete
grammar is formed. Using the probabilistically generated grammar, the
model then generates a structure for the data point (e.g., generating the
structure for a question and the word order associated with that structure).
If the generated word order matches the observed word order for the
data point, all parameter values that were selected to participate in the
grammar are rewarded; if the generated order does not match, all partici-
pating parameter values are punished. Notably, this model does not
attempt to assign credit or blame to a particular parameter value within
the grammar. Instead, all participating values are rewarded or punished
together. The model then moves on to the next data point.
Updating (whether rewarding or punishing) is specified by the linear
reward-penalty scheme. The update equation involves a parameter γ that
determines how liberal the model is. The larger γ is, the more probability
the model shifts for a single data point.
(15) Updating using the linear reward-penalty scheme
pv = previous probability of parameter value
po = previous probability of opposing parameter value
Parameters in language acquisition 151
(a) generated word order matches observed word order (reward)
pvnew ¼ pv þ γ 1−pv
ð Þ
ponew ¼ 1−γ
ð Þpo
(b) generated word order does not match observed word order
(punish)
pvnew ¼ 1−γ
ð Þpv
ponew ¼ γ þ 1−γ
ð Þpo
As an example, suppose we consider the probabilities of +wh-movement
and −wh-movement for the wh-movement parameter. Initially, they are
both 0.5. For the first data point, suppose −wh-movement is chosen to be
part of the grammar and that grammar fails to generate the observed word
order (e.g., the observed data point is “Who is that?” and the generated
word order is “That is who?”). The −wh-movement value (and all other
participating values) are punished. Suppose γ is 0.01. The new value of
−wh-movement would be (1–0.01)*0.5 = 0.495 and the new value of +wh-
movement would be 0.01 + (1–0.01)*0.5 = 0.505.
If the model rewards or punishes parameter values every time a data
point is encountered, this is known as the Naı̈ve Parameter Learner (Yang
2002). The idea, discussed in the previous section, is that the incorrect
parameter values will be punished more often than the correct parameter
values since the correct parameter values are the ones that should be
compatible with the language data. Yang also advocates a variant of this
model called “batch learning” that is more conservative about changing its
beliefs – instead of updating after every data point, the model waits
to update a parameter value until a string of failures or successes has
been observed for that value. It does this by keeping count of how many
successful and unsuccessful parses a parameter value has been involved in.
So perhaps a more transparent name for it is a “counting learner.” The
benefit of a counting learner is that it smoothes the acquisition trajectory
when parameters that interact are involved. Instead of jumping to con-
clusions after encountering ambiguous data, the counting learner waits
for a while to see if it’s really true that a particular parameter value works
or doesn’t work.
Let’s look at an example of this. Suppose we have a counting learner
that has a count size of 5. If the count for a parameter value reaches 5, the
parameter value is rewarded. If the count reaches −5, the parameter
value is punished. Every time the parameter value is part of a grammar
that generates a structure that matches the observed data point, the
counter is increased; conversely, every time the parameter value is part
of a grammar that generates a structure that mismatches, the counter
is decreased. After the reward or punishment, the parameter value’s
counter is reset to 0. Suppose now we again consider the probabilities
of the values for the wh-movement parameter. Initially, both + and −wh-
movement have a probability of 0.5, and their counters are both 0.
152 L I S A P E A R L A N D J E F F R E Y L I D Z
For the first data point, suppose +wh-movement is chosen to be part of
the grammar and that grammar fails to generate the observed word
order. The counter for +wh-movement is now −1. For the next three
data points, suppose −wh-movement is chosen for the grammar and
those grammars succeed at generating the observed word order. The
counter for −wh-movement is +3 and the counter for +wh-movement is
−1. Suppose the next two data points use +wh-movement and those
grammars succeed: −wh-movement’s counter is still +3, but +wh-
movement’s counter is now +1. Suppose then that the next six data
points use +wh-movement and those grammars fail: −wh-movement’s
counter is still +3, but +wh-movement’s counter is now −5, which is
the count limit. The +wh-movement value is then punished using the
appropriate update equation for the model. If the model uses a γ of 0.01,
the new probability of +wh-movment is 0.495 and the new probability
of −wh-movement is 0.505. The counter for +wh-movement is then
reset to 0.
The conservativity of this learning model can be seen from the previous
example – instead of updating for each of the twelve individual data points
(punishing +wh-movement once, rewarding −wh-movement three times,
rewarding +wh-movement two times, and then punishing +wh-movement
six times), the model only punishes +wh-movement once. Importantly,
this is only after the +wh-movement value has been involved in a string of
failures, and so is more likely to really be failing.
Using this kind of learner, Yang discovered that a strong gauge of
acquisition success was the quantity of unambiguous data for each
parameter value in the input, even though his learners weren’t specifi-
cally looking for just unambiguous data. The intuition is that ambiguous
data for a parameter can be parsed by either parameter value, and so
neither value is guaranteed to be punished (although either might be if
some other parameter interacts and causes a mismatch with the data
point). However, for unambiguous data, one parameter value is guaran-
teed to be punished every single time – by its very nature, an unambig-
uous data point is compatible with only one parameter value, no matter
what other parameter are involved. Taking the idea that unambiguous
data for parameter value is a key notion, Yang (2004) investigated the age
of acquisition for a number of parameter values and the amount of
unambiguous data available in child-directed speech for these parameter
values. He found a strong correlation, where the more frequent unam-
biguous data were, the earlier a parameter value seemed to be acquired
by children (16). This suggests that unambiguous data certainly are quite
important for learning with parameters, even though they may not be
the only data children use.
(16) Correlations between age of acquisition and unambiguous data
frequency7
Parameters in language acquisition 153
(a) wh-fronting in English questions (+wh-movement)
Example unambiguous data: “Who did you see?’
Unambiguous data frequency: 25% of input
Age of acquisition: As early as children can be tested
(b) verb-raising in French (+verb-raising)
Example unambiguous data type: Jean voit souvent Marie.
Jean sees often Marie
“Jean often sees Marie.”
Unambiguous data frequency: 7% of input
Age of acquisition: 1 year, 8 months
(c) obligatory subject in English (−pro-drop)
Example unambiguous data: “There’s a penguin on the ice.”
Unambiguous data frequency: 1.2% of input
Age of acquisition: 3 years
(d) verb-second in German (+verb-second)
Example unambiguous data: Pinguine liebe ich.
Penguins like I.
“I like penguins.”
Unambiguous data frequency: 1.2% of input
Age of acquisition: 3 years
(e) no medial-wh in English (-medial-wh)
Example unambiguous data type: “Who do you think is on the
ice?”
Unambiguous data frequency: 0.2% of the input
Age of acquisition: after 4 years
A complementary line of computational work by Sakas and Fodor (Fodor
1998b; Fodor and Sakas 2004; Sakas 2003; Sakas and Fodor 2001; Sakas and
Nishimoto 2002) investigates other learning strategies a child might have
for acquisition, with particular concern for how much time it would take
for a child to converge on the right grammar. They quantified the general
notion of time as how many data points a child would need to observe. To
provide their models with a realistic acquisition problem, they required
their models to set 13 binary parameters that interact, for a hypothesis
space of 3072 possible grammars. The data the models learned from
represented the sentence types that could occur in the language, such as
“Subject Verb” (a data point fitting this description in English would be
I laughed). All of the strategies they investigated were also based on the idea
previously discussed that the child is attempting to generate a structure
that matches the observable word order. A summary of some of the differ-
ent strategies is shown in (17) below. The learning strategies are divided
into those that only learn when there is a failure to match the observed
data (error-driven models (17a–c)), and those that are sensitive to whether
the current data point is ambiguous for which grammar generated it
(structural triggers models (17d–f)).
154 L I S A P E A R L A N D J E F F R E Y L I D Z
(17) Acquisition strategies
(a) Error-Driven Blind Guess: Only change the current guess for the
grammar if that grammar cannot generate the observed word
order. At this point, make a new guess randomly for what the
entire grammar is.
(b) Trigger Learning Algorithm: Only change the current guess for
the grammar if that grammar cannot generate the observed word
order. At this point, optionally change some parameter values.
(c) Error-Driven Variational Learner: Only change the current guess
for the grammar if that grammar cannot generate the observed
word order. At this point, probabilistically generate a new gram-
mar based on probabilities associated with each parameter value.
If the new grammar can generate the observed word order,
reward all participating parameter values; otherwise, punish all
participating parameter values.
(d) Strong Structural Triggers Learner: The learner is aware of all
possible structures capable of generating the observed word
order. Only parameter values required by all these structures
are selected as the correct one for the language, as the data
point is unambiguous for these values.
(e) Waiting Structural Triggers Learner: The learner is aware if
more than one structure is capable of generating the observed
word order, and where exactly the ambiguities in structure are. It
only adopts parameter values that correspond to parts of the
structure that occur before any ambiguities, and are therefore
unambiguous.
(f) Guessing Structural Triggers Learner: The learner is aware if more
than one structure is capable of generating the observed word
order, and where exactly the ambiguities in structure are. For the
ambiguous parts, it chooses one parameter value, based on some
structural heuristic.
Sakas and Fodor find that error-driven learners generally fare much less
well than learners that care about the ambiguity of the data. Specifically,
the error-driven learners (17a–c) take longer to converge on the correct
grammar for the language. However, among the learners that are sensitive
to the ambiguity in the data, it turns out that there is a trade-off between
learners who only learn from unambiguous data and learners that are
willing to make a guess even when the data are ambiguous. While the
unambiguous learners (17d–e) will sometimes converge very quickly if the
data distribution is favorable (that is, contains unambiguous data), they
will take a very long time to converge if the data distribution is unfavor-
able. The less conservative learner (17f) may take longer on average to
converge, but this learner type doesn’t have the extremes in variation
because it does not depend on unambiguous data being available. What
Parameters in language acquisition 155
this tells us is that unambiguous data may be very useful, but if a child is
attempting to generate the data she encounters rather than identify cues
for parameter values, she may need to rely on somewhat ambiguous data
as well.
Another line of computational work in the metrical phonology domain
by Pearl (2007, 2008, 2009, 2011) examines an additional complication
for the acquisition problem. In the models previously discussed, there
has been very little noise in the input data – that is, there are very few
misleading data points for the correct grammar of the language (which
might occur as speaker errors, or as part of different dialects). However,
in metrical phonology, this is not always the case. It may very well be that
there is a set of data that are exceptional, but still part of the language. For
example, Daelemans et al. (1994) note that 20% of the Dutch data they
consider are irregular according to a generally accepted metrical analysis
and so must be dealt with in terms of idiosyncratic lexical marking.
When Pearl examined English metrical phonology data, she discovered
that at least 27% of the English child-directed speech data were irregular
with respect to the metrical analysis for English derived from Dresher
(1999), Halle and Vergnaud (1987), and Halle and Idsardi (1995), again
because of lexical exceptions. This makes acquisition a bit tougher
than before – not only are the data often ambiguous, but some of them
may be inconsistent with the target grammar because of lexically listed
exceptions.
Pearl (2009, 2011) examined how well learners that probabilistically
learn from all data would do on this data set, since this seemed another
realistic example of the data children encounter. The learning models
examined were the variational learner from Yang (2002) and an incremen-
tal Bayesian model, both non-counting and counting versions. The varia-
tional model uses the update equations described in (15), while the
incremental Bayesian model uses the update equations shown in (18).8
If a parameter value participates in a grammar that generates a stress
contour that matches the observed stress contour, the number of successes
for that parameter value is incremented by 1. If a parameter value partic-
ipates in a grammar that does not, the number of successes is left alone.
Either way, the total data seen is incremented by 1 if the parameter
value was part of the grammar used to generate the stress contour.
The probabilities for opposing parameter values are then calculated and
all probabilities are normalized so they sum to 1. So, for each parameter
value, the model tracks (a) the current probability, (b) the number of
matching stress contours that parameter value has been involved in
generating, and (c) the total number of stress contours that parameter
value has been involved in generating.
(18) Update equations for incremental Bayesian learning model
pv = previous probability of parameter value
156 L I S A P E A R L A N D J E F F R E Y L I D Z
po = previous probability of opposing parameter value
pvnew ¼
1:5 þ successes
3 þ total data seen
pvnew; normalized ¼
pvnew
pvnew þ po
ponew; normalized ¼
po
pvnew þ po
As an example, suppose we look at the extrametricality parameter. Initially,
the probabilities for both + and −extrametricality are 0.5. For the first data
point, suppose +extrametricality is chosen to be part of the grammar and that
grammar fails to generate the observed stress contour. The +extrametricality
value (and all other participating values) are punished. The non-normalized
probability for the +extrametricality value is (1.5+0)/(3+1) = 0.375. The
non-normalized probability for the −extrametricality value has not changed
from 0.5 since it was not used for this data point. The normalized probability
of +extrametricality is then 0.375/(0.375 + 0.5) = 0.429 while the normalized
probability of −extrametricality is then 0.571.
Pearl found that none of these learners succeeded with any kind of
reliability, perhaps a somewhat disheartening discovery. The trouble
turned out to be that the English grammar as a whole was compatible
with less data than other grammars available in the hypothesis space, even
though the individual parameter values may have been compatible with
more data. This is again the problem of tracking overall grammar “fitness”
with the data compared to identifying the parameter values involved in
the system, based on cues from the data. If we believe children do end up
choosing the parameter values in the English grammar, they must have
some way of viewing the acquisition problem such that these parameter
values are the most optimal ones for explaining the data that are relevant.
One idea is that children are sensitive to the unambiguous data, and the
ability of the parameter values to account for the unambiguous data are
what matters – not the overall fitness with the entire data set. Pearl (2008)
found that children would choose the English grammar (and more partic-
ularly, the parameter values that make up the English grammar) if they
specifically track the unambiguous data distributions. This was far more
heartening news for acquisition for two reasons. First, it showed that
unambiguous data do indeed exist in a very realistic acquisition scenario,
which is always a concern if we believe children rely on them. Second, it
showed that they appeared in the correct distributions to lead a child to the
right parameter values. The reason why learning from unambiguous data
worked is because the unambiguous data favor the English parameter
values when the parameters are acquired in particular orders. So, if the
parameters are acquired in one of those orders, the English parameter
values are the fittest for the unambiguous data. In that case, a probabilistic
Parameters in language acquisition 157
learning algorithm that prefers the optimal values (as most do) will
converge on the English grammar. Interestingly, additional simulations
suggested that it is not the ordering alone that causes the English para-
meter values to be optimal. When parameters were set in similar orders by
the models that learn from all data (both ambiguous and unambiguous),
there was no reliable convergence on the English grammar. Among the
learners that do converge, there seemed to be no common learning path.
This suggested that the culprit was the ambiguous data. Learning from
these data (though granted in a rather naı̈ve way) will mislead an English
learner. These simulations also have led to a testable prediction about
children’s acquisition trajectory: If children are using parameters and
relying on unambiguous data, they must learn parameter values in certain
orders. This prediction remains to be tested, but the key point is that it has
a given us something to look for in children’s behavior that we didn’t
know to look for before.
These three sets of modeling studies have all investigated the acquisition
of language using parameters in different ways. Though their general
strategies of investigation differed somewhat, they all demonstrated
both how useful unambiguous data can be and also some of its potential
pitfalls for a parameter-setting learner. We have additionally seen how
computational modeling not only assesses different learning strategies but
also how it can generate testable predictions about acquisition.
9.5 Conclusion
In this chapter, we have discussed some ideas for what linguistic parame-
ters are intended to be, highlighting their similarity to statistical parame-
ters and describing how and why they would be beneficial for language
acquisition. We have tried to emphasize that using parameters to charac-
terize the space of possible languages does not in itself provide a model of
learning. In addition, a learning theory needs a mechanism for drawing
inferences from observed data to particular parameter values. A number of
alternative approaches to parameter-setting highlighted the learning
choices that remain, such as why learning by using individual parameters
might be better than learning parametrically defined grammars that are
treated as atomic units, and whether and how learners rely on strictly
unambiguous data. We subsequently reviewed several computational
modeling studies to demonstrate the contribution computational model-
ing can make to the parameter-setting enterprise. Specifically, we can use
computational modeling techniques to explore what learning strategies
make a parametric grammar acquirable. If we find certain parametric
grammars are not acquirable from available child input, this can bear on
the validity of the proposed parameters that comprise those grammars
(cf. Frank and Kapur 1996). Even with the correct parameters, children
158 L I S A P E A R L A N D J E F F R E Y L I D Z
may still need to bring additional learning biases to the task of language
acquisition in order to correctly set their parameters – another possibility
that can be explored easily within a computational modeling framework.
One of the benefits of explicit computational modeling approaches to
parameter-setting is that alternatives may differ in the predictions they
make about the time course of acquisition (e.g., based on the amount of
data required to set the parameters as in Yang (2004)), which makes it
possible to test the validity of parametric approaches against the behavior
of actual learners. We hope that this chapter inspires continued research
into the linguistic parameters that could make acquisition as swift and
relatively easy as it seems to be.
Parameters in language acquisition 159
10
Bilingualism beyond
language: On the impact
of bilingualism on
executive control
Mireia Hernández, Clara D. Martin,
Núria Sebastián-Gallés, and Albert Costa
10.1 Introduction
Society is becoming more and more multicultural every day. This means
that many individuals are able to speak more than one language, some of
them even growing up in a completely bilingual environment. In this
context, many questions about the potential implications of being a bilin-
gual speaker are raised not only by scientists but also from society in
general. One of the most provocative and exciting questions refers to the
potential collateral effects that using two languages may have for the
development of various cognitive abilities besides language. This issue
leads to intense and often controversial debates and, beyond any socio-
political interests, requires an empirical approach. It is the goal of the
present chapter to review our current knowledge about this topic and
provide some guidelines for further research.
Early research on the collateral effects of bilingualism for cognition was
surrounded by obscure myths based on wrong assumptions about how the
brain works. Especially between 1920 and 1960 the widespread view was
that bilingualism resulted in cognitive deficiencies and mental disturb-
ances. For example, Adler (1977) wrote about bilinguals: “Often (bilinguals)
have split minds . . . all the particularities which language conveys, histor-
ical, geographical, cultural, are re-embodied in the bilingual twice: he is
neither here nor there: he is a marginal man” (38). Adler also wrote about
the bilingual child: “His standards are split, he becomes more inarticulate
than one would expect of one who can express himself in two languages,
his emotions are more instinctive, in short, bilingualism can lead to a split
personality and, at worst, to schizophrenia” (40). It is a long time ago that
these arbitrary and experimentally uninformed views about bilingualism
were expressed. Since then, years of experimental research have provided
evidence that bilingualism actually has implications for general cognition,
but they could not be farther from those assumed in earliest research. In
particular, it has been demonstrated that bilingualism enhances executive
control, which refers to a collection of high-level cognitive abilities ena-
bling an individual to successfully engage in independent goal-directed
behavior.
This review focuses on the phenomenon of bilingualism having positive
collateral effects on general-domain executive control. We first provide a
broad introduction to what causes bilingualism to affect general-domain
executive control. Second, we briefly review the first experimental studies
with children, which started settling the guidelines of the empirical
research on the issue. Next, we discuss findings on the effect that bilin-
gualism has on one executive control process in particular: conflict pro-
cessing. Then, we also review evidence that being a bilingual entails the
development of more efficient executive control across lifespan. Finally,
we highlight critical issues for future research.
10.2 The impact of bilingualism on executive control:
Introduction to the phenomenon
One of the remarkable abilities of bilingual speakers is that of keeping
their two languages apart during speech processing. Bilinguals rarely show
involuntary lexical intrusions from the non-intended language (see
Poulisse and Bongaerts 1994). Thus, unlike monolinguals, bilinguals do
not only need to select the appropriate words for the message they want to
convey but also they have to guarantee that those words belong to the
intended language. This is even more remarkable considering the speed
and reliability with which speakers produce language (about 4 words per
second, with less than 1 error per 1000 words produced). This extra cogni-
tive process that bilinguals need to bring into play has been referred to as
language control, and as we will argue later on, seems to depend on the
involvement of executive control processes.
Furthermore, bilinguals show another striking ability that is more
apparent in conversations in which the two languages are in play. On
many occasions, although this depends on the sociolinguistic scenario in
which bilinguals find themselves, individuals are involved in conversa-
tions in which the two languages are being used. That is, a bilingual
speaker may use one language when speaking with one of the interloc-
utors and the other language with the other interlocutor. Certainly, this
situation is only functional when the three interlocutors know the two
languages, otherwise the conversation won’t be successful. However,
this is not an uncommon conversational setting, for example, in families
Bilingualism beyond language 161
in which the two parents speak different languages to their children, or
in societies in which the two languages are very widespread and used in a
wide variety of contexts (as in the Catalan-Spanish community). At any
rate, what this activity shows is the flexibility of bilingual speakers to
switch between their two languages with, apparently, not a massive
cognitive effort.
Both of these abilities of bilingual speakers, namely the ability to focus
their lexicalization process in one language when needed, and the ability
to switch between their two languages, are at the basis of language control.
Without the involvement of such language control bilingual language
processing would be chaotic. Functionally, this language control mecha-
nism needs to incorporate processes that: (a) allow potential conflict
between the two languages to be resolved and (b) keep track or monitor
the language that is appropriate for each specific interlocutor in each
conversational setting.
Perhaps the best example of how essential language control is for bilin-
gual communication comes from neuropsychological bilingual patients
who, after suffering brain damage, are unable to perform language control
any more (e.g., Abutalebi et al. 2000; Mariën et al. 2005). The lack of language
control in these patients results in mixing and constantly switching lan-
guages, even though patients are aware of the interlocutor being unable to
understand one of their languages. This was the case of patient A. H.,
reported by Abutalebi et al. (2000), a 74-year-old polyglot woman with
Armenian, English, and Italian who suffered from a stroke affecting her
left caudate. As illustrated in this short transcription of her spontaneous
language, A. H. was unable to perform language control any more: I cannot
communicare con you today; Oggi, I cannot say il mio nome to you (portions in
bold were said in Italian; taken from Abutalebi et al. 2000). The A.H. case
illustrates that this extra and unavoidable step of language control is crucial
for the efficient communication of bilinguals. Thus the mechanisms under-
lying bilingual language control have been the object of several studies.
In this chapter, however, we do not focus on how the language control
mechanism works but on its potential collateral effects for cognition.
Particularly, we focus on the hypothesis that language control performed
by highly proficient bilinguals constantly exposed to their two languages
influences non-linguistic cognitive processes, in particular general-
domain executive control. This hypothesis has received the attention of
many researchers motivating a large number of experimental studies,
especially during the last decade. Before presenting the experimental
evidence reported in the literature in support of this hypothesis, let us
briefly expose what we refer to by executive control processes and why
they should be affected by bilingualism.
General-domain executive control stands for a collection of cognitive
processes which allow us to behave in a goal-directed manner. Some of
these processes consist of the appropriate set-maintenance for strategic
162 M . H E R N Á N D E Z , C . D . M A R T I N , N . S E B A S T I Á N - G A L L É S , A N D A . C O S T A
planning, disablement of the strategy in response to changes in goals or
changes in the task environment, attention, working memory, switching
between mental sets, organized search, flexibility of action, suppression of
prepotent responses, task monitoring, and updating working memory
representations (e.g., Fuster 1980; Logan 1985; Luria 1973; Stuss and
Benson 1984, 1987). To illustrate executive control by an easy example,
let’s imagine the host for the dinner tonight going out late from work.
While walking to his car he tries to remember whether any guest is
vegetarian or has any other special restriction. Then, he makes a guess
about the fastest route to the supermarket and at the same time he gets
into the car, starts the engine and releases the handbrake. While driving,
he attends to the traffic, changes gear, adjusts the rear-view mirror’s
position, keeps the right direction and thinks about the ingredients for
the menu. All these sequences of actions require many simultaneous
executive control processes. Very broadly, we could identify some of
these processes. For example, strategic planning allows him to decide
the menu and the fastest direction to the supermarket; thanks to set-
maintenance he can start planning the dinner while starting the car; visual
attention is engaged while driving; working memory is required to men-
tally check the appropriate ingredients for the menu; and mental flexibil-
ity is crucial for switching from the mental set of the menu to the mental
set of driving every time any alerting signal requires it (e.g., the sound of an
ambulance, a sudden braking of the car in the front). Nevertheless, it is the
orchestrated functioning of all these processes that allows our host to
behave in a goal-directed manner. In other words, it is the engagement
of the so-called general-domain executive control processes that leads him
to successfully achieve his goal.
The question of interest in the present context is why should bilingual-
ism affect the development of some of these general-domain executive
control processes? In particular, why would the extra training in language
control affect the development of executive control?
Perhaps the most important reason backing up such a hypothesis is the
fact that functional and structural development of cognition is not only
tied to maturational constraints but is also affected by environmental
factors. For example, Maguire et al. (2000) observed that London taxi
drivers with extensive navigation experience had different hippocampal
volumes (enlarged in posterior and reduced in anterior regions) relative to
control individuals without navigation experience. Similarly, Gaser and
Schlaug (2003) found that gray matter volume in motor, auditory, and
visual-spatial brain regions differed between professional keyboard play-
ers and both amateur and non-players. Another example is the study by
Green and Bavelier (2003) showing enhanced visual attention skills in
habitual video-game players relative to non-players.
All these examples indicate that at least some environmental factors can
modify specific cognitive systems. Bilingualism, and more concretely the
Bilingualism beyond language 163
processes involved in bilingual language control, might be one of these
environmental factors. In particular, controlling two languages continu-
ously probably acts as an environmental factor with a modeling role on the
development of executive control processes. As highlighted by Abutalebi
and Green (2007) through a meta-analysis based on neuroimaging data,
bilingual language control involves some of the brain structures respon-
sible for general-domain executive control. For example, it seems that
bilinguals use the prefrontal cortex mechanisms, typically engaged to over-
ride prepotent irrelevant responses, to block L1 utterances when trying to
produce speech in a less-dominant L2. Similarly, bilinguals would use the
general-domain conflict detection mechanisms subserved in the anterior
cingulate cortex to override conflict between the simultaneously activated
translations of a concept (e.g., “dog” vs. “perro”). Also, parietal mechanisms
typically engaged to bias attention away from a disused previous task would
help bilinguals to switch from one language to the other.
In short, bilingual language control shares functional and neuronal
mechanisms with general-domain executive control processes. The pre-
diction derived from this (at least partial) functional and anatomical over-
lap is that bilinguals would employ general executive control processes
more frequently than monolinguals, resulting in a different and/or more
efficient development of executive control brain networks. In other words
bilinguals would engage more efficiently (at least some of) the executive
control processes required for a goal-directed behavior similar to the one
of our host. This prediction would be experimentally confirmed by observ-
ing that bilinguals outperform monolinguals in non-linguistic executive
control tasks.
Before reviewing the experimental evidence it is important to underline
the type of bilinguals that have been, mostly, involved in research on
executive control and bilingualism. Up to date experimental evidence
has focused on speakers that grow up in a bilingual context (developing
native-level skills in two languages) and, hence, need to perform bilingual
language control continuously. The performance of this type of bilinguals
in non-linguistic tasks requiring executive control has been compared to
that of individuals who, despite having acquired foreign language knowl-
edge in formal academic contexts, only use one language (their first and
dominant language) on a daily basis. Hence, one should be careful when
extrapolating the results that will be reviewed to other types of bilingual
speakers (see section on future directions).
10.3 Impact of bilingualism on executive control: A brief
review
The hypothesis that controlling two languages during speech would lead
to developing more efficient executive control networks has been tested
164 M . H E R N Á N D E Z , C . D . M A R T I N , N . S E B A S T I Á N - G A L L É S , A N D A . C O S T A
by comparing the performance of bilinguals and monolinguals in tasks
requiring non-linguistic executive control (e.g., Abutalebi et al., in press;
Bialystok 2006, 2010, 2011; Bialystok and Feng 2009; Bialystok and
Viswanathan 2009; Bialystok et al. 2004, 2005; Bialystok, Martin, and
Viswanathan 2005; Bialystok, Craik, and Ruocco 2006; Bialystok, Craik,
and Ryan 2006; Bialystok et al. 2008, 2010; Calabria et al. 2011; Carlson and
Meltzoff 2008; Colzato et al. 2008; Costa et al. 2008, 2009; Fernandes et al.
2007; Garbin et al. 2010; Hernández et al. 2010 [Experiment 1], 2012; Luk
et al. 2010; Luo et al. 2010; Martin-Rhee and Bialystok 2008; Prior and
MacWhinney 2010; Poulin-Dubois et al. 2011; Prior and Gollan 2011;
Treccani et al. 2009). The earliest empirical evidence that bilingualism
has a positive effect on executive control processes comes from studies
with children conducted mostly in Canada by Ellen Bialystok and col-
leagues. In this early research, studies mainly focused on the effects of
bilingualism on non-linguistic inhibitory processes due to the general
assumption that these processes were crucial for preventing interference
from one language to the other during bilingual speech production. In a
series of experiments, Bialystok et al. (2004) compared bilingual and mono-
lingual children (about 5 years of age) in different adaptations of the card
sorting task originally developed by Zelazo and colleagues (Frye et al. 1995;
Zelazo et al. 1996). In this study, children were asked to sort objects drawn
on cards according to different target dimensions, the nature of which
varied across the different versions of the task. In the perceptual target
dimensions task, children were asked to sort objects by color (red vs. blue)
or by shape (square vs. circle). In the semantic target dimensions task,
children sorted objects by their functionality (“things to play” [e.g., bicycle]
vs. “things to wear” [e.g., slippers]) or by their habitual location (“things
that go inside the house” [e.g., slippers] vs. “things that go outside the
house” [e.g., bicycle]). Crucially, the matching criterion changed at a given
point so that children needed to switch from one target dimension (e.g.,
color) to the other (e.g., shape). Bialystok et al. (2004) found that bilinguals
outperformed monolinguals in switching from one target dimension to
the other in the perceptual version of the task while no group effect was
observed in the semantic version. These results were interpreted as evi-
dence that bilinguals and monolinguals were equally efficient in con-
structing mental representations of objects, which are “non-executive
control” processes particularly necessary to extract the relevant semantic
features of objects. In contrast, bilingual children seem to have more
efficient inhibitory processes that allow them to better prevent attending
to a prepotent mental representation, that is, the old relevant target
dimension after a shift in the sorting criterion. The observed bilingual
advantage was attributed to bilinguals being more experienced in inhibit-
ing misleading information due to their constant need to inhibit word
forms of the unintended language. The finding that bilingual preschoolers
outperform monolinguals in inhibitory processes was replicated by means
Bilingualism beyond language 165
of other tasks also requiring executive control. For example, Bialystok and
Senman (2004 [Study 2]), examined inhibitory processes by means of the
appearance-reality task (Flavell et al. 1983). In this task, children were
presented with objects with perceptual features leading to a mispercep-
tion of the real identity of the object (e.g., a book with the shape of a
snowman or a marker with the shape of a whale). In order to correctly
answer the question about the real identity of the object, children needed
to engage inhibitory processes allowing them to ignore the object proper-
ties leading to incorrect object identification. In this study Bialystok and
Senman (2004) observed that bilingual children performed better than
monolingual children on identifying the real objects. In another study,
Bialystok and Shapero (2005) observed that bilingual children (about 5½
years of age) outperformed monolinguals in two tasks requiring inhibiting
misleading information. In the so-called “ambiguous figures task,” chil-
dren were presented with figures with two alternative images (e.g., a figure
that could represent the shape of a man or the shape of a rat). Bilinguals
were more successful than monolinguals in perceiving the alternative
image in these ambiguous figures. In the so-called “opposite world’s
task” the inhibitory processes were examined by asking children to sup-
press the habitual name of objects and replace it by another (e.g., call each
pig a cow and vice versa). Bilingual children outperformed monolinguals
in this task as well.
Bialystok and colleagues’ research evidenced that bilingualism plays a
crucial role in the development of inhibitory processes, and motivated the
question of whether inhibition was the only executive control process
influenced by bilingualism. Thus, at this point, new studies started to
focus on many different executive control processes, either with children
or adults, as potential targets for the effect of bilingualism (e.g., dual-task
processing [Bialystok, Craik, and Ruocco 2006a]; reactive inhibition
[Colzato et al. 2008]; task-switching [Prior and MacWhinney 2010; Prior
and Gollan 2011]). Bialystok, Craik, and Ryan (2006) even tried to isolate
different executive control processes (response suppression [the ability to
withhold an habitual response], inhibitory control (suppressing interfer-
ence from conflicting information], task switching [holding in mind two
sets of instructions and executing the correct one in accordance with a
cue]) in a single complex task, as well as to examine the extent to which
bilingualism affects each of them.
The fact that the executive control construct is still not well understood
renders the pattern of bilingual advantage observed in these studies chal-
lenging to interpret. The general problem comes from the difficulty to
disentangle every single one of these executive control processes given
that it is the orchestration between several processes that composes the
theoretical construct of executive control. In this respect, conflict process-
ing being one of the better understood executive control processes, many
studies have focused on the effects of bilingualism on this particular
166 M . H E R N Á N D E Z , C . D . M A R T I N , N . S E B A S T I Á N - G A L L É S , A N D A . C O S T A
process (e.g., Bialystok 2006; Bialystok et al. 2004; Bialystok, Martin, and
Viswanathan 2005; Bialystok et al. 2005; Costa et al. 2008, 2009; Hernández
et al. 2010; Martin-Rhee and Bialystok 2008). Relative to other executive
control processes, the anatomical and functional mechanisms involved in
conflict processing, despite not being fully understood, have been widely
described. Thus, results of studies on the effects of bilingualism on conflict
processing have had a relatively clear theoretical basis for its interpreta-
tion. As exposed in the next section, these results have been crucial to
advance knowledge on how bilingual language control may affect general-
domain executive control processes.
10.4 Impact of bilingualism on conﬂict processing: The facts
One of the most studied executive control processes is that of processing a
conflict between two competing responses. On a daily basis, we are con-
stantly exposed to this sort of conflicting situation. For example, a traffic
signal leading you to turn right located on the left side of the street would
create a conflict between turning right (correct behavior) or turning left
(conflicting behavior elicited by the location of the traffic signal). In experi-
mental research, this type of conflict resolution process has been inves-
tigated by means of the so-called Stroop-like tasks, such as the Simon task
or the flanker task (see Figure 10.1 for a description of these tasks). These
experimental tasks require engaging executive control processes to
resolve the conflict between two competing responses. Specifically, there
are two different components relevant for conflict processing and, hence,
to deal with this sort of experimental task: conflict resolution and conflict
monitoring. Conflict resolution is believed to reflect conflict overriding
processes, particularly inhibition. It is indexed by comparing the time
needed (i.e. the cost) to respond to incongruent trials relative to either
congruent or neutral trials (cf. Figure 10.1). In contrast, conflict monitoring
consists in constantly assessing the need to engage in conflict resolution.
This component is typically indexed by the slower performance in con-
texts mixing similar proportions of incongruent (requiring conflict reso-
lution) and congruent (free of conflict) trials relative to those contexts
where most of trials are of one type (congruent or incongruent). This is
believed to reflect the evaluation of the current level of conflict which is
used by the monitoring system to trigger conflict resolution mechanisms
such as inhibition.1
While conflict monitoring was not considered to be an object of modu-
lation by bilingualism until recently, conflict resolution has always been a
good candidate for such modulation. The widespread hypothesis has
been that, as a result of constantly inhibiting the lexical forms of the
unintended language, bilinguals would become overtrained in general-
domain inhibitory processes. The hypothesized bilingual advantage in
Bilingualism beyond language 167
general-domain inhibitory processes has been indexed in studies showing a
reduced conflict effect in bilinguals relative to monolinguals (cf. Figure 10.2;
e.g., Bialystok et al. 2004; Costa et al. 2008, 2009 [Experiment 2]; Hernández
et al. 2010 [Experiment 1]).
However, an additional effect of bilingualism has also unexpectedly
been found across studies: bilinguals are faster than monolinguals
Congruent trials Incongruent trials
Response button
Response button Response button
Response button
L R L R
L R
L R
Simon task L = Left, R = Right
Figure 10.1 Stroop-like tasks as a tool to measure conﬂict processing. In a classic color-word
Stroop task (Stroop 1935) participants are asked to name the ink color of written color words
(e.g., say “red” to the word blue written in red ink). The typical result is that participants are
slower in naming the ink color of incongruent color words (i.e. blue; conﬂict effect) than in
naming the ink color of a row of neutral Xs or congruent color words (i.e. red). The conﬂict
effect reﬂects the temporal cost of engaging executive control processes to resolve the
conﬂict between two competing responses: the correct one (red) and the irrelevant one
(blue). Several adaptations of this classical color-word Stroop task have been used during
years of research on executive control processes involved in conﬂict processing. One example
of a widely used adaptation of the Stroop task is the Simon task, which has been frequently
used to investigate bilingualism effects on executive control. In a classical Simon task (Simon
and Ruddell 1967) two targets are associated to different spatial responses (respond with the
left hand to a black circle, and with the right hand to a white circle). Crucially, the stimulus can
appear in the right or left position of the screen. The color of the stimulus is the target
dimension and its position, the distracter dimension. The Simon effect stands for the faster
reaction times (RTs) when the response required by the target dimension matches the
location of the stimulus on the screen (congruent trials – black circle presented on the left
of the screen) than when it does not (incongruent trials – black circle presented on the right of
the screen). This effect reveals the time required to solve the conﬂict between the two
contradictory spatial responses elicited by the target and the distracter dimensions. Another
Stroop-like task is the ﬂanker task (e.g., Fan et al. 2002) where participants are asked to
determine the direction of a central target arrow. Surrounding the target arrow, there are
ﬂanker arrows that point to either the same (congruent trials →→→→→) or opposite
direction (incongruent trials →→←→→). Incongruent trials lead to slower RTs than congru-
ent trials (conﬂict effect), revealing the time cost associated with conﬂict resolution.
168 M . H E R N Á N D E Z , C . D . M A R T I N , N . S E B A S T I Á N - G A L L É S , A N D A . C O S T A
regardless of the presence of conflict, that is, in any type of trials (neutral,
congruent, and incongruent; e.g., Bialystok et al. 2004; Bialystok, Martin,
and Viswanathan 2005; Costa et al. 2008, 2009 [Experiment 2]; see
Figure 10.2). Given that this bilingual advantage was present even in
those trials free of conflict (congruent, neutral), it could not be attributed
to inhibitory processes brought into play to override conflict. This effect
remained practically unexplored until Costa et al. (2009) suggested that the
overall faster reaction times (RTs) in bilinguals could reflect a better effi-
ciency in conflict monitoring.
In a meta-analysis including all the Stroop-like tasks (cf. Figure 10.1)
comparing the performance of bilinguals and monolinguals up to 2008,
Costa et al. (2009) showed that the effect of bilingualism on overall
reaction times was actually much more consistent across studies than
the reduced conflict effect. This meta-analysis revealed that in 30% of the
studies bilinguals were overall faster than monolinguals. In contrast,
only in 13% of the studies was the bilingual advantage indexed by a
reduced conflict effect, and always in addition to the overall reaction
times effect. In other words, it turned out that no study reported a
reduced conflict effect for bilinguals in the absence of overall faster
reaction times (see Figure 10.3).
1600
1500
1400
1300
1200
1100
1000
900
800
Reaction
time
(in
ms)
Congruent Incongruent
Type of trial
Bilinguals
Monolinguals
Figure 10.2 The two signatures of bilingualism in conﬂict processing. Data taken from
Bialystok et al. (2004 [Study 2]) comparing the performance of bilinguals and monolinguals
in a Simon task. These results clearly show that bilingualism modulates the magnitude of the
conﬂict effect (RTs incongruent trials – RTs congruent trials), which was 212 ms for bilinguals
and 583 ms for monolinguals. In addition, bilinguals were overall faster than monolinguals
across the task regardless of the type of trial (213 ms faster in congruent and 494 ms faster in
incongruent trials).
Bilingualism beyond language 169
The question then was why bilinguals should be overall faster than
monolinguals. One possibility is that bilinguals are better at assessing the
need to engage conflict resolution processes in every trial, that is, they are
better at conflict monitoring. The rationale is that the more efficiency in
conducting this assessment, the faster performance in overall trials. In other
words, the potentially better ability of bilinguals to determine the specific
behavior required in every single trial (engaging or disengaging conflict
resolution processes, e.g., inhibition), would result in overall faster
responses across the task. Costa et al. (2009) tested this hypothesis by
means of a parametrical manipulation of the flanker task. In this study
bilinguals and monolinguals were compared in four versions of the flanker
task: two of them with similar proportions of congruent and incongruent
trials, meaning high monitoring demands (i.e. 50% and 75% congruent task-
versions). In two other task-versions the majority of trials were of one type,
leading to low monitoring demands (i.e. 8% and 92% congruent task-
versions). The authors predicted that the bilingual advantage in overall
RTs would be more evident in contexts with high monitoring demands,
based on the hypothesis that bilingualism improves conflict monitoring.
Costa et al.’s prediction was confirmed as bilinguals were overall faster than
monolinguals only in high monitoring demands task-versions. The differ-
ence between bilinguals and monolinguals’ overall RTs increased as a func-
tion of monitoring demands (see Figure 10.4(a)), being especially evident
when monitoring demands were maximal (i.e. 50% congruent task-version;
see Figure 10.4(b)). These observations suggested that bilinguals have a more
efficient capacity to evaluate the particular demands of every trial through-
out the entire task in order to adjust behavior whenever needed.
What about conflict resolution, then? As pointed out above, conflict
resolution in Stroop-like tasks has been typically taken as an index of
inhibition. Therefore, a modulation of the conflict effect in bilinguals
can be interpreted as evidence that bilingualism aids inhibitory processes.
No effect Overall RTs Conflict effect Both Unclear
Figure 10.3 Schematic illustration of Costa et al.’s (2009) meta-analysis showing in which
proportion bilingualism modulates performance in Stroop-like tasks. Out of 23 studies,
bilingualism exerted no effect on performance in almost half of them. In all the studies
where bilingualism inﬂuenced performance, bilinguals were overall faster than monolin-
guals. In a small proportion of these studies, bilinguals showed a reduced conﬂict effect in
addition to the overall faster RTs. The impact of bilingualism was unclear in a couple of studies
due to the lack of statistics or other ambiguous information.
170 M . H E R N Á N D E Z , C . D . M A R T I N , N . S E B A S T I Á N - G A L L É S , A N D A . C O S T A
Costa et al. (2009) observed this modulation in only one task-version, the
75% congruent one, where the conflict effect was 27 ms smaller for bilin-
guals relative to monolinguals in the first block of the task.2
This observa-
tion confirmed that bilingualism aids conflict resolution. However,
conflict resolution does not seem to be the executive control component
most influenced by bilingualism. Results from Costa et al. (2009) along with
those from previous literature reported in their meta-analysis suggest that
the bilingual advantage on conflict resolution is an elusive effect, only
detectable in certain contexts. A detailed examination of the contexts in
which this effect is mostly present reveals that it typically comes along
PANEL A
500
550
600
650
700
750
Reaction
Times
(in
ms)
Bilinguals
Monolinguals
MONITORING DEMAND
Con Incon
8%
con. T.V.
Con Incon
92%
con. T.V.
Con Incon
75%
con. T.V.
Con Incon
50%
con. T.V.
High
Low
PANEL B
–5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
Monolinguals'
-
Bilinguals'
Overall
RTs
Low High
MONITORING DEMAND
8% con. T.V. 92% con. T.V. 75% con. T.V. 50% con. T.V.
Figure 10.4 (a) Overall RTs broken by group of participants, task-version, and type of trial
taken from Costa et al. (2009). The monitoring demands increase from left to right. Error bars
represent standard errors. Con = congruent; Incon = incongruent; T.V. = task-version.
(b) Difference between bilinguals and monolinguals in overall RTs (congruent and incon-
gruent trials collapsed) as a function of task-version. The monitoring demands increase from
left to right.
Bilingualism beyond language 171
with specific proportions of congruent (free of conflict) and incongruent
(requiring conflict resolution) trials. Those are the contexts where effects
of bilingualism on conflict monitoring are also observed. In particular,
it seems that conflict resolution is modulated by bilingualism only in those
contexts with high monitoring demands in which incongruent trials
are less frequent than congruent ones (although still keeping a high
need of constant monitoring: e.g., 33% incongruent trials [e.g., Costa et al.
2008; Hernández et al. 2010], 25% incongruent trials [Costa et al. 2009]
[Experiment 2]).
10.5 Impact of bilingualism on conﬂict processing:
The explanation
As reviewed above, although with different robustness, there seems to be
two processes related to conflict processing that are affected by bilingual-
ism: (a) conflict resolution and (b) conflict monitoring.
The impact of bilingualism on conflict resolution seems to reflect a
better functioning of inhibitory control mechanisms in bilingual com-
pared to monolingual speakers. This better functioning would have its
origins in the way the language control system works, in the sense that it
would make use of inhibitory processing (Green 1998). However, note that
not all models of language control agree on postulating inhibitory lan-
guage control processing. In fact, there have been quite explicit proposals
about how the language control system may shift from a reliance on
inhibitory processing when proficiency in L2 is low, to a more built-in
lexical control processing (that would not make use of inhibitory control)
when proficiency in L2 increases (Costa and Caramazza 1999; Costa et al.
1999; Costa et al. 2006). Be this as it may, it appears that inhibitory pro-
cesses seem to be involved in language control, at least at some points in
time during language development. Consequently, the most ready explan-
ation at this time to account for the bilingual effect in conflict resolution is
the use of common inhibitory systems when resolving non-linguistic and
linguistic conflicting situations.
Regarding conflict monitoring, we can find only one tentative explan-
ation advanced in Costa et al. (2009). We argued that the cause of the
bilingual advantage in such processes is the need for constantly evaluating
which language to speak to whom, in accordance with the language-
interlocutor associations previously established. This would require the
engagement of monitoring processes. That is, bilinguals would need to
perform language monitoring in every communicative situation in order
to select the appropriate language for the utterances according to the
language used by the interlocutor/s. This language monitoring becomes
crucial in communicative situations with multiple interlocutors where a
bilingual switches between his two languages as a function of the specific
172 M . H E R N Á N D E Z , C . D . M A R T I N , N . S E B A S T I Á N - G A L L É S , A N D A . C O S T A
interlocutor/s. In this kind of situation, the bilingual would need to go back
and forth between his two languages, keeping track of the language used
in the previous utterance, and constantly evaluating the need to suppress/
ignore one language to engage the other. This language monitoring would
be the cause for the enhancement of general-domain monitoring pro-
cesses reported above.
10.6 On the effects of bilingualism through development
Having established that bilingualism has a positive impact on executive
control, several issues appear to be relevant regarding the development of
such an effect.
The first issue is whether bilingualism affects the functioning of execu-
tive control at all ages, or whether its impact is more restricted to some
specific periods of life. In the earliest experimental studies, the effect of
bilingualism on executive control was only observed during development
(in childhood) and decline (during middle and old age). For example,
Bialystok, Martin, and Viswanathan (2005; Studies 1 and 2) observed over-
all faster RTs and reduced conflict effect for bilingual relative to mono-
lingual children. Overall faster responses for bilinguals relative to
monolinguals were also observed in middle aged (30–60 years of age) and
older adults (60–80 years of age; Bialystok, Martin, and Viswanathan 2005;
Studies 4 and 5). However, when administering the Simon task to young
adults (20–30 years of age) no difference was observed between bilinguals
and monolinguals (e.g., Bialystok, Martin, and Viswanathan 2005; Study 3).
These observations regarding the presence of a bilingual advantage across
the lifespan led Bialystok, Martin, and Viswanathan (2005) to propose that
the effects of bilingualism on executive control processes are undetectable
in young adulthood due to both bilinguals and monolinguals being at the
peak of their cognitive efficiency. In other words, when executive control
abilities are at their maximal capacity, there is no room for bilingualism to
exert any significant effect. However, this possibility was later disproved
by Costa et al. (2008). These authors found the two signatures of bilingual-
ism (i.e. reduced conflict effect and overall faster RTs) when comparing a
group of 100 young bilinguals with a group of 100 monolinguals in a
flanker task, all of them ranging between 17 and 32 years old. The effects
of bilingualism in young individuals were replicated in posterior studies
(e.g., Costa et al. 2009 – 75% congruent task-version; Hernández et al. 2010).
Note that, despite being robust, the impact of bilingualism on conflict
resolution during young adulthood is just a matter of a few milliseconds
(e.g., 14 ms in Costa et al. 2008; 27 ms in Costa et al. 2009 – 75% congruent
task-version). This small difference in the magnitude of the conflict effect
between young bilinguals and monolinguals contrasts with the huge dif-
ferences reported with middle-aged (ranging from 30 to 60 years old) and
Bilingualism beyond language 173
older individuals (ranging between 60 and 80 years old). For example, the
magnitude of the bilingual advantage of middle-aged individuals was 115
ms in the easiest and 88 ms in the hardest version of the Simon task in
Bialystok et al. (2004 [Study 2]). In the same study, the bilingual advantage
of older individuals was 371 ms in the easiest and 610 ms in the hardest
version of the Simon task.3
Considering that executive control processes
are sensitive to age-related changes (e.g., Diamond 2002; Nelson 1995;
Pennington 1994; Welsh 2002), variations in the amplitude of the bilingual
advantage across different stages of life are consistent with the idea that
the less biologically mature executive control processes are, the more
room there is for external factors to exert their impact. Thus, given these
results we can conclude that bilingualism does actually have an impact on
executive control across life-span, although such an impact is less impor-
tant when bilinguals are at the peak of their cognitive abilities.
The second issue regarding the development of the bilingualism effect on
executive control refers to whether bilingualism has an impact in children
that do not produce language yet. In other words, do preverbal bilingual
babies (babies exposed to two languages but speaking neither yet) have a
faster development of their executive functions? The experimental evi-
dence on this issue is very scarce but also very interesting. In a recent
article by Kovács and Mehler (2009), 7-month-old bilingual infants out-
performed monolingual infants in a task requiring switching responses.
Babies were habituated to look at one side of the screen where a puppet
intermittently appeared. After some training, babies tended to anticipate
their gaze towards the side where the puppet would appear, even before the
puppet was presented. After several trials, the puppet was presented on
the other side of the screen without previous notice. Infants were sup-
posed to stop anticipating their gaze towards the previous side and start
anticipating towards the new location. The results showed that bilingual
babies were able to do so and look at the new location, while monolingual
babies were unable to do so. These results are very interesting not only
because they show the very early effects of bilingualism on executive
control, but also because they bring a potential new way to understand
previous results. As discussed above, the most common explanation for the
bilingual advantage in conflict processing stems from the need to
control the two languages during speech production. If this argument is
correct and if it is the only source of the bilingual advantage, how is it that
babies who do not produce language already show an effect of bilingual-
ism? Kovács and Mehler (2009) proposed that even preverbal bilingual
infants need to perform control between the two languages even if they
do not produce them yet. In particular, preverbal bilinguals would engage
executive control processes in order to selectively construct and access the
representations of the two languages. Thus, Kovács and Mehler’s findings
suggest that the origin of the effects of bilingualism on general-domain
executive control could be related to the need to keep the two languages
174 M . H E R N Á N D E Z , C . D . M A R T I N , N . S E B A S T I Á N - G A L L É S , A N D A . C O S T A
apart even during language perception. In that sense, bilinguals would
need, for example, to keep track of the language of each interlocutor to be
able to associate a specific language with each interlocutor.
The third issue raised in the context of the development of the bilingual
impact on executive control refers to the age at which the two languages
have to be learned for such effects to be present. This is an extremely
interesting issue since it can inform us about how critical periods in one
cognitive domain may affect other cognitive domains. Unfortunately, we
lack evidence on this issue at present.
10.7 Summary
Contrasting with the obscure connotations associated with bilingualism
several decades ago, modern experimental research has revealed that
bilingualism actually has a positive impact on general cognition. In partic-
ular, bilingualism affects general-domain executive control, a broad com-
pendium of cognitive processes working in orchestration to allow
individuals to achieve goal-directed behavior. The reason why bilinguals
develop more efficient executive control processes is believed to be the
anatomical and functional overlap between bilingual language control
and general-domain executive control. Due to the availability of the
Stroop-like paradigm and the well-known behavior associated with it,
most studies to date have addressed the effects of bilingualism on one
executive control process in particular, namely, conflict processing. This
process includes conflict resolution (the ability to override interference
from conflicting information) and conflict monitoring (the ability to keep
track of the presence/absence of conflict in order to engage/disengage
conflict resolution processes). In earliest studies, researchers mainly
focused on the bilingual advantage in conflict resolution (indexed by a
reduced conflict effect in bilinguals relative to monolinguals) which is
thought to mainly depend on inhibitory processes. However, more recent
studies have shown that the main executive control component affected
by bilingualism seems to be conflict monitoring (indexed by overall faster
RTs in bilinguals relative to monolinguals). At present, it is still unclear
why conflict resolution (hence, inhibitory processes) is additionally but
not mainly affected by bilingualism. A potential answer to this question is
that keeping track of the languages used by the interlocutors during
bilingual conversations may be more demanding in terms of bilingual
language control relative to resolving conflict between the two transla-
tions of a given lexical form.
Despite being harder to detect when individuals are at the peak of their
executive control capabilities (i.e. young adulthood), the effects of bilin-
gualism on executive control have been observed in individuals at differ-
ent stages of life. Thus, bilingualism seems to have an impact across
Bilingualism beyond language 175
lifespan, even in preverbal stages, which suggests that not only speaking
but also perceiving two languages is enough to develop more efficient
executive control processes.
10.8 Future directions
At present, the bilingual advantage in general-domain executive control
seems to be without question. The current efforts are mainly focused on
determining bilingualism effects on different executive control processes
(e.g., task-switching [Prior and MacWhinney 2010; Prior and Gollan 2011]);
attentional guidance [Hernández et al. 2012]). Whether bilingualism has an
impact on other cognitive processes tightly related to executive control
(i.e. alerting and spatial orienting components of attention) is still an open
question. Costa and colleagues have conducted some work on this issue
(Costa et al. 2008, 2009; Hernández et al. 2010) indicating that the effect of
bilingualism does not extend to processes of spatial orienting. However,
the potential effects of bilingualism on alerting are still unclear. In the
following, we will develop some unexplored issues that are crucial for
advancing knowledge on the origin of the bilingual advantage on execu-
tive control.
1. Are there quantitative and/or qualitative differences in the bilingualism effect on
executive control as a function of the “type of bilingualism”? Since the need to
control two languages is believed to be behind the bilingual advantage in
executive control, one of the most interesting questions is whether this
advantage is present for bilingualism within a context of diglossia (i.e. every
language of a bilingual is mainly associated with a specific context – e.g., L1
at home, L2 at work). In the context of diglossia, bilinguals do not alternate
between languages and do not participate in bilingual conversations very
often. For this population, language monitoring is probably not the most
crucial aspect of bilingual language control. Thus, it is possible that the
bilingual advantage in conflict monitoring is much reduced in “diglossic”
bilinguals relative to those bilinguals using their two languages independ-
ently of the context.
Another interesting question is whether the bilingual advantage in
executive control is modulated by the extent to which the two languages
of a bilingual differ. For example, two Romance languages (e.g., Spanish
and Italian) are more similar in terms of phonological overlap between
equivalent translations and grammatical constructions than a Romance
language and an Anglo-Saxon language (e.g., Spanish and English). There is a
general assumption that the more similar the two languages, the less need
of bilingual language control. This assumption comes from the observation
that the phonological overlap between equivalent translations facilitates
lexical retrieval in bilinguals with two Romance languages (i.e. cognate
effect; see Costa et al. 2005). However, it is possible that this phonological
176 M . H E R N Á N D E Z , C . D . M A R T I N , N . S E B A S T I Á N - G A L L É S , A N D A . C O S T A
overlap also makes it harder to suppress the equivalent translation of the
unintended language. For this reason, executive control processes might be
differently affected depending on the overlap between both languages of a
bilingual speaker.
The question of whether late bilinguals experience an enhancement of
executive control as early bilinguals do is also relevant to understanding
the origins of the phenomenon. If we consider the enhancement of exec-
utive control in bilinguals as a consequence of overtraining, we could
expect late bilinguals to develop executive control processes at the same
pace as they develop proficiency in language control.
2. To what extent can we associate bilingual language control with the develop-
ment of more efficient general-domain executive control? Some studies suggest
that the extra step of language control necessary for language processing
in bilinguals compared to monolinguals is reflected in slower and less
accurate performance in tasks requiring language production (e.g.,
picture-naming tasks [e.g., Gollan et al. 2005], even when producing lan-
guage in L1 [e.g., Ivanova and Costa 2008]). As exposed in this chapter, the
same mechanisms of bilingual language control are also responsible for
the bilingual advantage in executive control, an assumption objectively
evidenced by means of Abutalebi and Green’s (2007) meta-analysis.
However, to date, no study has compared the performance of the same
bilinguals and monolinguals in both language production and non-
linguistic executive control tasks. In addition to the bilingual disadvantage
in language production along with the bilingual advantage in executive
control, bilinguals should show a negative correlation between the two
tasks.
3. To what extent is the bilingual advantage in executive control functional on a
daily basis? As exposed above, the bilingual advantage in executive control
experimentally observed is a matter of few milliseconds. Nevertheless,
there are some clues suggesting that bilingualism has indeed a functional
impact in everyday life. For example, Bialystok, Craik, and Freedman’s
(2007) study reveals that bilingualism could act as a factor of cognitive
reserve against dementia (see also Gollan et al. 2011; Schweizer et al. in
press). Further research is needed to overcome some potential confound-
ing effects as subjective values regarding the onset of dementia or socio-
cultural differences between bilinguals and monolinguals.
Bilingualism beyond language 177
Part II
Mind, brain, behavior
11
The role of experimental
syntax in an integrated
cognitive science
of language
Jon Sprouse and Diogo Almeida
11.1 Introduction
Acceptability judgments form the primary empirical foundation for
generative syntactic theories (Chomsky 1965; Schütze 1996). As such,
the methodology of acceptability judgment collection has been a topic
of research since the earliest days of generative syntax (e.g., Hill 1961,
Spencer 1973). However, the past fifteen years have seen a dramatic
increase in the number of articles devoted to the topic. It seems clear
that the recent increase in interest in methodological issues is related
to advances in technology that have made it easier than ever to
construct, deploy, and analyze formal acceptability judgment experi-
ments, which following Cowart (1997) have come to be called experi-
mental syntax (a practice that we will follow in this chapter). The
question at the center of this literature is deceptively simple: How
can formal acceptability judgment experiments help achieve the goals of gen-
erative syntax? As we will see in this chapter, answering this question
is surprisingly complex. A comprehensive answer to this question
requires (at least) three components: (1) an explicit formulation of
the goals of generative syntax, (2) an enumeration of the potential
obstacles to those goals, and (3) an empirically driven evaluation of
the ability of formal experiments to eliminate those obstacles. In this
chapter we will present a comprehensive review of the recent accept-
ability judgment literature with respect to these three components in
an attempt to provide (our version of) an answer to the question of
how formal judgment experiments can help generative syntactic
theory.
11.2 The goals and obstacles of generative syntactic theory
Our starting assumption is that all cognitively oriented language research-
ers share the goal of constructing a theory of language that integrates all
three of Marr’s famous levels of analysis: the computational level, the
algorithmic level, and the implementational level (Marr 1982; see also
discussion in Phillips 1996, Phillips and Lewis 2010, Kluender 1991,
Frazier 1978, Embick and Poeppel 2005, and many others). Marr (1982)
used cash registers as an illustrative example to define these three levels
for information processing devices (such as the human brain). The computa-
tional level of the theory is a description of the properties of the problem
that must be solved by the device, as well as the operations that the device
must perform, that abstracts away from the exigencies of actually solving
the problem in practice. For a cash register, the computational level descrip-
tion is the theory of addition, with properties such as commutativity and
associativity, abstracting away from the precise algorithms that are neces-
sary to carry out addition. For the sentence level phenomena of language,
syntactic theories are computational level descriptions, as they describe the
properties of the final syntactic structures that must be built, as well as the
properties of the structure building operations that are required to build
them, but abstract away from the requirements of real-time sentence pro-
cessing. The algorithmic level of the theory is a description of the actual
operations that must be deployed to solve the problem (i.e. an algorithm).
For a cash register this could be the base-10 addition algorithm that we
learned in school: start from the right, and “carry over the ones.” For
language, parsing theories are algorithmic level theories, as they describe
the specific parsing operations that must be deployed during real-time
sentence processing, including the strategies that dictate the deployment
of those operations, and the ways in which parsing resources constrain the
operation of the parser. Finally, the implementational level of the theory is a
description of how the processes/strategies/resources are implemented in
the hardware of the device. For a cash register, there are several hardware
options that can influence this level (e.g., spinning drums versus electronic
processors). However, for (a cognitive approach to) language, there is only
one set of hardware, the human brain. Neurolinguistic theories, which seek
to identify the cortical networks involved in various linguistic computa-
tions, are a first step toward implementational level descriptions (Embick
and Poeppel 2005; Sprouse and Lau 2012).
There are at least two major obstacles to the construction of an inte-
grated theory of language. The first is the black box problem: there is no
method to directly measure cognitive mechanisms. What this means in
practice is that researchers must (i) identify observable data types (behav-
ior, electrophysiological responses, hemodynamic responses), and
(ii) identify linking hypotheses that license (empirically valid) inferences
182 J O N S P R O U S E A N D D I O G O A L M E I D A
from the observable data to the unobservable cognitive mechanisms. The
black box problem affects all three levels of the theory; however, in this
chapter we will focus on the data and linking hypotheses underlying
syntactic theory (see Sprouse and Lau 2012 for a description of the data
types and linking hypotheses at the algorithmic and implementational
levels). Crucially, the black box problem presents a framework for inves-
tigating the empirical contribution of experimental syntax by focusing the
discussion on the following questions: To what extent are the data underlying
current incarnations of syntactic theory sound? And, What types of inferences are
licensed by the linking hypothesis between acceptability judgment data and syntactic
theory?
Whereas the first major obstacle to the construction of an integrated
theory of language, the black box problem, presents a framework for
investigating the empirical contribution of experimental syntax, the sec-
ond major obstacle presents a framework for understanding the historical
and sociological context of recent investigations of experimental syntax.
Even a cursory glance at the experimental syntax literature suggests that
significantly more attention has been devoted to the question of the
soundness of the data underlying syntactic theory than to the question
of what inferences are licensed by the linking hypothesis between data
and theory. As we will see in this chapter, we believe that this has been a
distraction for the field, as there appears to be no evidence that the exist-
ing data are faulty, and growing evidence that traditional collection meth-
ods are appropriate for the majority of phenomena of interest to
syntacticians. We believe that this distraction can be (at least partially)
traced to the second major obstacle to the construction of an integrated
theory of language: the difficulty in establishing linking hypotheses
between the levels (computational, algorithmic, implementational) of
the theory (see also Phillips 1996; Townsend and Bever 2001; Ferreira
2005).
Establishing a level–level linking hypothesis, for example between syn-
tactic theories (computational) and parsing theories (algorithmic),
requires the resolution of at least two complex theoretical issues. The
first is to determine exactly how much of the sentence processing system
should be captured by the syntactic theory; in other words, a line must be
drawn that separates the aspects of the processing system that will be
abstracted away from in building a syntactic theory, and the aspects of the
system that will be directly captured by the syntactic theory. The second
issue is to determine exactly what the linking hypothesis will be between
the mechanisms in the syntactic theory and the mechanisms in the pars-
ing theory. One early attempt at an integration of syntactic and parsing
theories was the Derivational Theory of Complexity (DTC) (Miller 1962;
McMahon 1963; Miller and McKean 1964; Gough 1965, 1966; for reviews
see Fodor, Bever, and Garrett 1974; Berwick and Weinberg 1984, Pritchett
and Whitman 1993; Phillips 1996, Townsend and Bever 2001). The DTC
Experimental syntax 183
assumed an early version of transformational syntactic theory that con-
tained structure building operations (e.g., transformations), but abstracted
away from other aspects of sentence processing such as meaning, parsing
strategies, probabilistic information, etc. The DTC also assumed an iso-
morphic linking hypothesis between structure building operations in the
syntactic theory and parsing operations in the parsing theory. Under this
view, for every transformation that was necessary for a given sentence in
the syntactic theory, there was a complementary process in the parsing
theory to “un-do” the transformation during sentence comprehension. In
this way, the DTC predicted that behavioral responses that tracked parsing
difficulty (such as reaction times) would be directly affected by the number
of transformations that were necessary to derive a given sentence in the
syntactic theory, as each transformation would trigger complementary
processes during sentence comprehension. As is well known, this predic-
tion did not hold for many types of complex sentences.
The failure of the DTC as a linking hypothesis between syntactic and
parsing theories continues to shape the interaction of syntacticians and
psycholinguists, as there is some truth to the observation that each side of
the computational/algorithmic divide internalized a different lesson from
the failure. Though it is clear that the failure of the DTC was likely due to
problems with all three components (the syntactic theory, the parsing
theory, and the isomorphic linking hypothesis between the two; see
Phillips 1996, Townsend and Bever 2001, Phillips and Lewis 2010), syntac-
ticians tend to be more suspicious of the veracity of parsing theories, and
psycholinguists tend to be more suspicious of the veracity of syntactic
theories. This latter suspicion, coupled with a long tradition of formal
experimentation in psycholinguistics, may be the cause of the increased
attention given to the soundness of acceptability judgment data, as
unsound data would obviously lead to unsound theories (Edelman and
Christiansen 2003; Ferreira 2005; Gibson and Fedorenko 2010a,b).
However, as will become clear in the next section, the soundness of accept-
ability judgment data does not appear to be a true impediment to an
integrated theory (see also Phillips and Lasnik 2003; Phillips 2009; and
Culicover and Jackendoff 2010); instead, the real impediment seems to be
the complexity of the problem, as the space of possible syntactic theories,
the space of possible parsing theories, and the space of possible linking
hypotheses that can account for the data that we do have are still all
relatively large.
11.3 To what extent are the acceptability judgments
underlying syntactic theory sound?
Perhaps the most obvious target of criticism for researchers who are
skeptical of syntactic theories is whether the judgments reported in any
184 J O N S P R O U S E A N D D I O G O A L M E I D A
given paper can be trusted to be a true reflection of the acceptability of the
sentences in question. We will call this the reliability of judgment data.
Establishing the reliability of judgment data is no easy task: the funda-
mental problem is that, unlike the properties of physical objects, there is
no device that can objectively measure the properties of cognitive objects.
Instead, cognitive scientists must rely on behavioral experiments to indi-
rectly establish the quantity or quality of the cognitive objects in question.
In the case of acceptability, the behavioral experiments in question
actually ask the participants to report their judgment of acceptability;
however, it should be clear that this report of acceptability is not necessa-
rily the “true” acceptability response generated by the cognitive system of
language. The process of establishing the reliability of judgment data is
actually the process of establishing confidence that the reported values of
acceptability accurately reflect the “true” acceptability response (see also
Featherston 2007, Myers 2009a, and Schütze and Sprouse in press). The
question then is how can experimental syntax help establish confidence in
the acceptability judgments reported in the syntactic literature.
11.3.1 Criticisms of the reliability of syntactic data
To begin to see how experimental syntax can help to establish confidence
in the data underlying syntactic theories, we can use recent criticisms of
syntactic data as a roadmap. Perhaps the most well-known of recent
criticisms is that of Gibson and Fedorenko (2010b). Gibson and
Fedorenko argue that traditional data collection techniques have led to a
preponderance of faulty data in the syntactic literature. As evidence for
this, Gibson and Fedorenko discuss three phenomena that were originally
reported using traditionally collected acceptability judgments. The first
phenomenon is a preference for right-branching relative clauses over
center-embedded relative clauses from Gibson (1991), as in (1):
(1) a. *The man that the woman that the dog bit likes eats fish.
b. ?I saw the man that the woman that the dog bit likes.
The second phenomenon is the triple-wh amelioration of the Superiority
effect reported by Kayne (1983):
(2) a. *I’d like to know where who hid it.
b. ?I’d like to know where who hid what.
The third phenomenon is a comparison of two sentences involving the
Superiority effect from Chomsky (1986a):
(3) a. What do you wonder who saw?
b. *I wonder what who saw.
Gibson and Fedorenko (2010b) re-tested each of these contrasts using
formal experiments, and report that all three failed to replicate (i.e. the
Experimental syntax 185
experiments detected no significant difference between the two condi-
tions in each pair). From these results, Gibson and Fedorenko (2010b)
conclude that the syntactic literature is rife with unreliable data, and
that formal experiments are required to correct the situation.
There are at least two fundamental problems with the Gibson and
Fedorenko (2010b) studies that we can use to create a roadmap for apply-
ing experimental syntax to the question of reliability in syntactic data.
The first problem is that we don’t know how representative these three
phenomena are of the data in the field as a whole. It could be the case that
these are three examples from a large set of replication failures in the
literature; or it could be that these are three examples from a small set of
replication failures. The problem is that these three were chosen with
bias (i.e. because they are replication failures). An unbiased test of the
replication failure rate in syntax would either test the entire set of data
points in the field (as in Sprouse and Almeida (2012), discussed in
Section 11.3.2), or test a truly random sample of data points from the
entire set (as in Sprouse, Schütze, and Almeida (submitted), discussed in
Section 11.3.3). One could then compare the number of replication fail-
ures to the number of replications to derive a replication failure rate for
the field as a whole, and ask whether that rate is substantially higher than
the rate in other domains of experimental psychology. Without such
comprehensive tests, the Gibson and Fedorenko (2010b) examples are
not very informative.
The second problem is that Gibson and Fedorenko (2010b) assume that
when traditional methods and formal experiments yield conflicting
results, as is the case with their three case studies, we should accept the
formal experimental results as “true.” This is in many respects begging
the question: if the goal of the study is to determine which method is
more reliable, then one can’t simply assume that one method is a priori
more reliable. To illustrate this problem, Sprouse and Almeida (in press)
re-tested the Gibson and Fedorenko (2010b) phenomena using a more
powerful judgment task (the Forced-Choice task, see Section 11.3.4), and
found that two of the three phenomena do show significant differences
identical to those originally reported in the literature: 62 of 98 respond-
ents favored the right-branching structure (1b) from Gibson (1991),
p = .006 by sign test, and 58 of 98 respondents favored the triple-wh
construction (2b) from Kayne (1983), p = .04 by sign test. In other words,
two of the three replication failures reported in Gibson and Fedorenko
(2010b) may not be replication failures at all, but instead may be exam-
ples of false negatives that arose due to insufficient statistical power in
the reported experiments. This suggests that a systematic investigation
of the relative statistical power of traditional methods and formal experi-
ments is necessary to determine under what conditions each experiment
type should be considered an appropriate tool for assessing acceptability
(see Section 11.3.4).
186 J O N S P R O U S E A N D D I O G O A L M E I D A
11.3.2 The reliability of textbook data
Given the problems raised by biased selection of phenomena in Gibson
and Fedorenko (2010b), Sprouse and Almeida (2012) set out to provide a
more accurate estimate of the reliability of data in syntax. They tested all
469 US-English data points from an introductory syntax textbook (Adger
2003) in formal experiments using 440 naı̈ve participants, the magnitude
estimation (Stevens 1957; Bard et al. 1996) and yes-no tasks, and three
different types of statistical analyses (traditional frequentist tests, linear
mixed effects models (Baayen et al. 2008), and Bayes factor analyses
(Rouder et al. 2009)). The results of that study suggest that at least 98% of
the data points in Adger (2003) replicate using formal experiments. Even
following the assumption of Gibson and Fedorenko (2010b) that formal
experiments provide the “true” results, this means that the maximum
replication failure rate of the traditionally collected judgments from
Adger (2003) is only 2%.
11.3.3 The reliability of journal data
Although the replication rate for judgments in Adger’s (2003) introductory
textbook is impressive (at least 98%), it is logically possible that the repli-
cation rate for judgments in journal articles could be substantially lower.
To test this possibility, Sprouse, Schütze, and Almeida (submitted) identi-
fied every (acceptability-judgment-based) data point published in the jour-
nal Linguistic Inquiry from 2001 to 2010, for a total of 1743 data points. They
then randomly sampled 292 data points (forming 146 pairwise phenom-
ena), or about 17% of the full set of data points in Linguistic Inquiry 2001–
2010. They then tested these 146 phenomena in formal experiments to
estimate a replication rate for data points from Linguistic Inquiry 2001–2010.
They found that 95% of the sampled phenomena replicated using formal
experiments. Based on the size of the sample in relation to the full set of
data points, this suggests that Linguistic Inquiry 2001–2010 has a minimum
replication rate of 95% ±5. Taken together with the textbook replication
from Sprouse and Almeida (2012), these results suggest that there is no
evidence of a reliability problem in the syntax literature, and that the
concerns raised by Gibson and Fedorenko (2010b) were empirically
unfounded.
11.3.4 A comparison of the statistical power of traditional methods
and formal experiments
Given the role that statistical power played in the interpretation of the
Gibson and Fedorenko (2010b) results (two of the three case studies were
false negatives due to low statistical power, see Sprouse and Almeida
(submitted)), the next logical step is to compare the statistical power of
traditional methods and formal experiments. Intuitively speaking,
Experimental syntax 187
statistical power is the ability of an experiment to detect a difference
between conditions when in fact there is a true difference. Statistical
power is often expressed as a percentage: for example, 80% statistical
power would indicate that an experiment would detect a true difference
80% of the time. Cohen (1962, 1988, 1992) has suggested that well-powered
experiments in psychology should strive for 80%, although in practice
most experiments in psychology are closer to 60% (Clark-Carter 1997).
Many different factors influence the statistical power of an experiment,
from the task chosen, to the size of the difference to be detected, to the
number of participants in the experimental sample. As such any study
interested in assessing the statistical power of acceptability judgment
experiments must manipulate all of these factors to arrive at a compre-
hensive picture.
Sprouse and Almeida (submitted a) conducted just such a study in an
effort to directly compare the statistical power of traditional methods and
formal experiments. They tested 95 phenomena taken from Adger (2003)
and Linguistic Inquiry 2001–2010. These 95 phenomena span the full range
of effect sizes in syntactic data, allowing for a comparison of statistical
power at every possible effect size, from very small differences to very
large differences. In order to compare the power of traditional methods
and formal experiments, the phenomena were tested using two different
tasks: magnitude estimation, which is commonly used in formal experi-
ments, and forced-choice, which is commonly used in traditional methods.
Over 140 participants were tested using each task, and then resampling
simulations were used to empirically estimate the statistical power for
each phenomenon at every possible sample size between 5 and 100 par-
ticipants. Figure 11.1 below presents the results of these resampling
5
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Sample
size
required
ME, 80% power
FC, 80% power
0 1 2 3 4 5
Cohen's d
(a) (b)
s m l
5
5
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Sample
size
required
0 1 2 3 4
Cohen's d
s m l
ME, 80% power
FC, 80% power
Figure 11.1 (a)(b) The sample size required (y-axis) to reach 80% power for the combined
set of 95 effect sizes (x-axis) for both forced-choice (solid dots) and magnitude estimation
(empty squares) experiments. The solid line is a non-linear trend line for the forced-choice
results. The dashed line represents a non-linear trend line for the magnitude estimation
results. The criteria for small, medium, and large effect sizes (following Cohen 1988, 1992)
are indicated on the x-axis in a smaller font. The left panel includes both points and trend
lines; the right panel presents the trend lines in isolation.
188 J O N S P R O U S E A N D D I O G O A L M E I D A
simulations by plotting the sample size required to reach 80% power (along
the y-axis) for each effect size (the x-axis).
Contrary to the claims of critics, the results of the Sprouse and Almeida
(submitted a) study suggest that traditional methods may be more power-
ful than formal experimental methods, at least with respect to detecting
difference between conditions, as traditional methods require substan-
tially fewer participants to reach 80% power (i.e. the suggested power
level in experimental psychology; see Cohen 1988, 1992). Sprouse
and Almeida (submitted a) also present a discussion of these results in
relation to the distribution of effect sizes in syntactic theory (based on
the Linguistic Inquiry sample from Sprouse, Schütze, and Almeida (submit-
ted)), arguing that the results suggest that that the phenomena of interest
to syntacticians tend to be substantially larger than those of interest
to other areas of psychology (nearly 90% of phenomena are large enough
to be visible to the “naked eye” according to the metrics of Cohen 1992),
and that traditional methods will lead to at least 94.5% power for the
mean effect size (as compared to 59% power for the mean effect size in
other areas of psychology, Clark-Carter 1997). In other words, traditional
methods should be seen as a valid, reliable, and well-powered set
of methods for the investigation of the phenomena of interest to
syntacticians.
11.3.5 Cognitive bias
Perhaps one of the most contentious aspects of traditional judgment
collection is the use of professional linguists as participants. Several critics
of traditional methods have suggested that this introduces the logical
possibility of cognitive bias on the part of the participants: as professional
linguists, the participants will likely be aware of the theoretical conse-
quences of their judgments, and this awareness may impact the judgments
that they ultimately report (Edelman and Christiansen 2003; Ferreira 2005;
Wasow and Arnold 2005; Gibson and Fedorenko 2010a,b). Supporters of
traditional methods counter this possibility with two logical arguments.
First, acceptability judgment experiments are easily replicable, as they
require no special equipment. This means that any given data point can
be replicated on the spot: audiences at conferences, reviewers of articles,
and even the readership of journals can quickly and easily check the
reported judgments for accuracy, and thus identify any influence of cog-
nitive bias. Second, the theoretical awareness of professional linguists may
provide a type of expert knowledge that increases the reliability, and
possibly the sensitivity, of linguists’ judgments over non-linguists’ judg-
ments (Newmeyer 1983, 2007, as well as Fanselow 2007, Grewendorf 2007,
and Haider 2007 for possible examples in German, and Devitt 2006, 2010,
Culbertson and Gross 2009, Gross and Culbertson 2011 for a discussion of
what could be meant by “expert knowledge”). The empirical question then
Experimental syntax 189
is whether there is any evidence of cognitive bias in the judgments of
professional linguists.
There are at least two methods for assessing the role of cognitive bias in
syntactic theory. One method would be to compare the judgments of
linguists with differing theoretical dispositions to see if theoretical knowl-
edge is indeed affecting their judgments. To our knowledge, the only study
to directly compare judgments from linguists with differing theoretical
dispositions is Dabrowska (2010). Dabrowska compared the judgments of
self-identified generative linguists with self-identified functional linguists
in a rating study that included Complex NP islands (*What did John make the
claim that Mary bought?). One plausible prediction of the cognitive bias
hypothesis is that generative linguists would rate the examples of island
violations lower than the functional linguists because island constraints
are a core part of the generative theory of syntax, whereas several func-
tional linguists have argued that island effects are an epiphenomenon of
language use (e.g., Kuno 1973; Deane 1991; Kluender and Kutas 1993;
Goldberg 2007). In other words, generative linguists have a motivation to
confirm the reliability of Complex NP islands, whereas functional linguists
have a motivation to disconfirm the reliability of Complex NP islands.
Dabrowska (2010) actually found that generative linguists’ ratings of
Complex NP islands were higher (i.e. more acceptable) than the functional
linguists’ ratings, which, contrary to the cognitive bias hypothesis, sug-
gests that the generative linguists were actually biased against their own
theoretical interests.1
The second method is to compare linguists’ judgments with the judg-
ments of naı̈ve participants. This method is necessarily more complicated,
as a simple difference between two groups is never enough to establish
which is correct, and as we’ve already seen, there are real statistical power
differences between the two methods. One plausible prediction of the
cognitive bias hypothesis would be that linguists’ judgments would go in
the opposite direction than naı̈ve participants’ when it is theoretically
advantageous to do so. If this prediction holds, then large-scale compar-
isons of the two groups, such as the studies by Sprouse and Almeida (2012)
and Sprouse, Schütze, and Almeida (submitted), should reveal a large
number of sign-reversals – that is, instances where the direction of the
difference between two conditions reported by one group is the exact
opposite of the direction of the difference reported by the other group.
Out of the 250 pairwise phenomena investigated by these studies, only two
sign-reversals were observed (less than 1% of cases), suggesting that cogni-
tive bias has not had an influence on existing syntactic data.
11.3.6 The interpretation of variation across participants
Another issue that arises in the critical literature (e.g., Wasow and Arnold
2005, Gibson and Fedorenko 2010b), but often goes unexamined, is the
190 J O N S P R O U S E A N D D I O G O A L M E I D A
question of how to interpret the variability in acceptability judgments
across participants. To make this discussion concrete, imagine that a
researcher is interested in the difference between two sentence types, as
is typical in acceptability judgment experiments. In general statistics
terminology, this difference is the treatment effect. When investigating the
treatment effect, the researcher can ask if the sample as a whole shows a
treatment effect by comparing the mean response of the sample for each
condition. If the two means are different enough, traditional statistical
significance testing (SST) will report that there is a significant treatment
effect for the sample. However, finding a statistically significant treatment
effect for the sample does not mean that every participant demonstrated
the treatment effect. In practice, given sufficient statistical power, very
few participants need to show the treatment effect in order for the sample
to show a significant treatment effect. A recurring question in the experi-
mental syntax literature is what to make of this variability. If 100% of the
participants show the treatment effect, it is pretty clear that the effect is a
robust fact for all of the members of the sample. However, what if 75%
show the effect, and 25% do not? What if only 25% show the effect, and 75%
do not?
There seem to be three different approaches to this question in the
literature:
1. Since measurement involves noise, only the central tendency of the
sample matters, and it is expected that not every participant or every
item in the sample show the treatment effect.
2. If a large enough proportion of participants do not show the predicted
treatment effect, this might be evidence for a different dialect.
3. Given a strong theory-data linking hypothesis that ungrammatical
sentences should be overwhelmingly judged to be unacceptable, a
large enough proportion of participants that fail to show the predicted
treatment effect, or that judge supposedly ungrammatical sentences
no worse than awkward will be taken as evidence that the theoretical
prediction is disconfirmed.
The first approach assumes that the participants who do not show the
treatment effect are simply being influenced by random noise. This is the
default assumption in most domains of cognitive science, as it is assumed
that all behavioral responses are the result of a combination of the experi-
mentally manipulated behavior, and various sources of random noise
(sometimes called unsystematic variation). Under this approach, it only
matters whether the sample as a whole shows the treatment effect: if SST
reveals a treatment effect in the sample, then there is a real treatment
effect. This is by far the most common approach in the experimental
syntax literature, as many of the best practices of experimental syntax,
including the use of SST, have been directly adapted from experimental
psychology. A second approach is to investigate whether participants who
Experimental syntax 191
do not show the treatment effect are actually drawn from a different
population than the participants who do show the effect. In most domains
of cognitive science, the population of interest is all humans; in linguistics,
the population of interest is all speakers of a given language. It is always a
logical possibility that the participants who do not show an effect have a
different grammar than the speakers who do show the effect (see also den
Dikken et al. 2007). A third approach is to assume that only manipulations
that yield a treatment effect in (almost) 100% of participants are real. While
this is certainly a strong criterion to impose on experimental results, it is
not without a certain logic. It is common in the syntactic literature to talk
about possible sentences and impossible sentences. If one truly believes that a
given sentence is impossible in a certain language, then one could also
conclude that no amount of random noise should be enough to cause
participants to rate that sentence as acceptable (see also Hoji 2010). This
approach nonetheless makes several assumptions: (i) that acceptability
judgments directly reflect the grammaticality of the sentences, without
contamination from other cognitive systems, (ii) that fatigue and distrac-
tion do not affect judgments, (iii) that the crucial analysis is categorical
(sentence A is acceptable or unacceptable), as opposed to relative differ-
ences (A is better or worse than B), and (iv) that the empirical domain of
syntactic theory is only the difference between possible and impossible
sentences.
Because of the domain-specific issues related to syntactic theory (e.g.,
language variation, possible/impossible sentences), it is critical to keep
these three approaches to variation in mind when interpreting the results
of formal acceptability judgment experiments. Failure to do so can lead to
substantially different interpretations of the data. For example,
Langendoen et al. (1973) investigated the claim made by Fillmore (1965)
and others that the first object of a double-object construction cannot be
questioned:
(4) *Who did you buy a hat?
(cf. What did you buy Mary?)
Langendoen et al. performed an answer completion task to test this claim
formally. They asked 109 students to answer questions like (5) with a
complete sentence:
(5) Who did you show the woman?
Their hypothesis was that if questions like (4) are indeed unacceptable,
then the answers to (5) should consistently place the answer NP at the end
of the sentence (I showed the woman my daughter). Langendoen et al.
reported two findings: that one-fifth of the participants responded with
the NP in the first object position (I showed my daughter the woman)
and these participants were all from the metropolitan New York
City area. Langendoen et al. (1973) considered following approach two,
192 J O N S P R O U S E A N D D I O G O A L M E I D A
i.e, concluding that there are two dialects at work in the sample: speakers
from NYC, who can question first object, and everyone else, who cannot.
Their favored conclusion, however, was more nuanced. Noticing the
theoretical difficulty in incorporating the necessary restrictions in the
grammar of English to explicitly rule out questions from the first object
of a double-object construction (a point previously raised by Jackendoff
and Culicover, 1971), Langendoen et al. (1973) proposed that these con-
structions are in fact licensed by the grammar of English. The difference
between the population that finds them acceptable and the population
that does not, they argue, is due to a different parsing strategy employed
by the two groups. Taking a different perspective, Wasow and Arnold
(2005) and Gibson and Fedorenko (2010a, b) have interpreted Langendoen
et al.’s (1973) result under approach three, and concluded that Fillmore’s
(1965) original claim is incorrect: it is, in fact, possible to question first
objects. Of course, it is also possible to assume approach one: the one-
fifth of participants who created first object answers did so because of
random noise in the experiment. This means that 87/109 participants
responded in accordance with Fillmore’s (1965) claim. A one-tailed sign
test yields p = .0000000018 – a significant result. What should be obvious
here is that the problem is not with the data itself, since no experimental
result disputed the fact that, by and large, speakers of English found
questions constructed from the first object of a double-object construc-
tion to be unacceptable. The problem is with the interpretation of what
these results might mean for the theory of grammar: Langendoen et al.’s
(1973) favored interpretation was motivated first and foremost by theory-
internal considerations, while Wasow and Arnold’s (2005) and Gibson
and Fedorenko’s (2010a, b) conclusions were dictated by their data-theory
linking hypothesis.
A similar situation arises with Wasow and Arnold’s (2005) test of a claim
from Chomsky (1955/1975) that the complexity of a noun phrase strongly
determines the position of that noun phrase within a verb-particle con-
struction. Chomsky’s claim is twofold. First, he claims that the most
natural place for multi-word NPs is after the particle, therefore both (6a)
and (6b) below should be more acceptable than both (6c) and (6d). Second,
he claims that complex NPs (relative clauses) are less acceptable than
simple NPs when they occur between the verb and particle, therefore
(6d) should be less acceptable than (6c).
(6) a. The children took in all our instructions. [3.4 out of 4]
b. The children took in everything we said. [3.3 out of 4]
c. The children took all our instructions in. [2.8 out of 4]
d. The children took everything we said in. [1.8 out of 4]
Wasow and Arnold (2005) ran a formal rating experiment, the results of
which are in square brackets in (6). According to approach one, which
assumes that only a difference in means is necessary to verify a claim, the
Experimental syntax 193
formal results match Chomsky’s informal results perfectly: there is a
significant interaction between particle position and NP type (p < .001).
However, Wasow and Arnold (2005: 1491) interpret the results as
problematic because “17% of the responses to such sentences [d.]
were scores of 3 or 4.” It seems that Wasow and Arnold (2005) were
assuming approach three, which requires that sentences be judged unac-
ceptable close to 100% of the time if we are to accept their status as
unacceptable.
It is crucial for the language community to be explicit about their
assumptions regarding the variability of acceptability judgments moving
forward. As we have already seen, several high profile criticisms of infor-
mal experiments rest upon the assumption that there should be little or no
variability among participants (Wasow and Arnold 2005; Gibson and
Fedorenko 2010b), but it is important to notice that when this very strong
assumption about the relationship between the theory and the data is
relaxed (for instance, to allow for things like sampling error), the exact
same set of results can be seen as providing strong evidence for the
opposite conclusion (see also Labov 1996 for a similar discussion of
the wanna contraction, and Raaijmakers 2003 for a similar discussion of
the interpretation of variation across participants in the sentence process-
ing literature).
11.3.7 The relative costs and beneﬁts of traditional methods
and formal experiments
In this section we have seen that experimental syntax techniques provide
a useful toolkit for exploring precisely which properties of formal experi-
ments should increase our confidence in the veracity of the results (i.e.
whether there is indeed a true difference between conditions). Though it
is relatively common to assume that formal experiments provide “better”
results than informal results, the current state of the field suggests that
many of the perceived benefits of formal experiments ultimately disap-
pear under closer empirical scrutiny. This raises the very real possibility
that the problem facing acceptability judgment data is a sociological one,
not an empirical one: researchers who are accustomed to formal experi-
ments are disinclined to have confidence in the results of traditional
methods, regardless of whether the informal experiments are empiri-
cally appropriate for the research questions that they are intended
to address.
Choosing the appropriate methodology (in any field) requires the
researcher to balance the costs and benefits of different methodologies
relative to their specific research question. The benefits of the traditional
methods over formal experiments are well known: (i) traditional methods
are cheaper – formal experiments cost $2.20–$3.30 per participant on
AMT; (ii) traditional methods are faster, at least with respect to participant
194 J O N S P R O U S E A N D D I O G O A L M E I D A
recruitment – although AMT has diminished this advantage significantly
(e.g., Sprouse 2011a reports a recruitment rate of 80 participants per hour
on AMT); (iii) the tasks used in traditional methods, such as the forced-
choice, appear to be more powerful than the tasks used in formal experi-
ments, such as magnitude estimation; and (iv) this increased statistical
power often makes traditional experiments the only option for languages
with few speakers (Culicover and Jackendoff 2010) or for studies of varia-
tion between individuals (den Dikken et al. 2007). On the other hand, the
benefits of formal experiments typically revolve around the types of infor-
mation that are necessary to answer the research question of interest (see
also Section 11.4). For example, the numerical rating tasks typically used
in formal experiments provide more information than the forced-choice
and yes–no tasks used in traditional methods, such as the size of the
difference between conditions (see also Schütze and Sprouse in press,
though as Myers 2009b points out, non-numerical tasks can be used to
approximate size measurements if necessary). Furthermore, if one wishes
to construct a complete theory of the gradient nature of acceptability
judgments, an enterprise which has gained in popularity over the past
decade (e.g., Keller 2000; Featherston 2005) then one will clearly need
numerical ratings of acceptability. The bottom line is that there is no
single correct answer when it comes to choosing a methodology.
Syntacticians (and indeed all researchers) must be aware of the relative
costs and benefits of each methodology with respect to their research
questions, and be allowed to make the decision for themselves. Science
cannot be reduced to a simple recipe.
11.4 What types of inferences are licensed by the linking
hypothesis between acceptability judgments
and syntactic theory?
The majority of experimental syntax studies have focused on the reliability
of the data underlying syntactic theory. As the previous section made
clear, we believe that this has been a (necessary) distraction: there appears
to be no evidence that the existing data is faulty, and growing evidence
that the informal methods are appropriate for the majority of phenomena
of interest to syntacticians. However, there is reason to believe that experi-
mental syntax techniques also provide new tools to investigate the infer-
ences licensed by the linking hypothesis between acceptability judgments
and syntactic theory. In this section we will review two ways in which
experimental syntax has added to our understanding of the nature of
syntactic theory: (i) testing reductionist claims about the correct locus of
acceptability judgment effects (so-called “processing” explanations), and
(ii) examining the complex theoretical issues surrounding the interpreta-
tion of continuous acceptability judgments.
Experimental syntax 195
11.4.1 Reductionist approaches to acceptability judgment effects
The fundamental component of the linking hypothesis between judgment
data and syntactic theories is the assumption that manipulations of the
structural properties of a sentence will lead to modulations of acceptability.
Regular readers of the syntactic literature are aware that it is relatively
common for syntacticians to establish the structural nature of acceptability
differences; by holding non-syntactic factors constant (semantics/plausibil-
ity, phonetics/phonology, morphology/lexical properties), syntacticians can
be relatively certain that it is the structural manipulation that is driving the
effect. However, because acceptability judgments are the result of success-
ful sentence processing, and because the operation of the parser is (by
definition) intricately tied to structural properties of sentences, there is
always a possibility that acceptability effects may be driven by properties
of the parsing system rather than grammaticality per se (cf. the conclusion
reached by Langendoen et al. 1973 for the questions based on the double
dative construction mentioned in the previous section). The question then is
how experimental syntax techniques can help tease apart acceptability
differences due to grammaticality effects, and acceptability differences
due to properties of the parsing system.
The first step in teasing apart this ambiguity is to be clear about what is
meant when one suggests that acceptability differences are driven by
properties of the parsing system. These types of accounts are sometimes
called “processing explanations” to contrast with “syntactic explana-
tions,” but as several researchers have remarked, this label is less than
ideal (Phillips 2011; Sprouse et al. 2012). The problem with this label is that,
by definition, structural manipulations will result in different behavior by
the parser. This is precisely what we want: the theory of syntax (a computa-
tional theory of structural properties of sentences) should be closely
related (by a level–level linking hypothesis) to the theory of parsing (an
algorithmic theory of syntactic structure building). Viewed from this per-
spective, every “syntactic explanation” is a “processing explanation,” as
the syntactic theory is a form of abstraction or idealization of the structure-
building component of the parser. Because of this tight relationship
between the syntactic theory and the structure-building component of
the parser, the syntactic properties of a sentence will necessarily affect
the behavior of the syntactic structure-building component of the parser.
This means that in order for the so-called “processing explanations” to be
distinct from “syntactic explanations,” the “processing explanation” must
not be related to the syntactic structure-building component of the parser.
To clarify the content of these types of questions, Phillips (2011) and
Sprouse et al. (2012) suggest the term reductionist instead of “processing
explanation.” They argue that the logic of these types of explanations is
clearly reductionist, in that the acceptability effect is argued to be reduci-
ble to non-structure-building components of the parser, such as parsing
196 J O N S P R O U S E A N D D I O G O A L M E I D A
strategies or parsing resource capacity. Under a reductionist approach, the
relationship between the acceptability effect and the structural manipu-
lation that is normally assumed to be driven by the syntactic system is
actually epiphenomenal; the true causal nexus lies between the extra-
syntactic factors, such as parsing strategies or parsing resources, and the
acceptability effect. The second-order correlation between acceptability
and the structural manipulation arises because structural manipulations
necessarily affect parsing strategies or parsing resource allocations. In
this way, the complexity of the syntactic system is reduced in favor of
extra-syntactic components. To the extent that these extra-syntactic
components are independently necessary, reductionist explanations may be
preferred to syntactic explanations according to theory-building metrics
such as Occam’s razor.
As a concrete example, take the two island effects that we have discussed
previously: Whether islands and Complex NP islands (see also
Alexopoulou and Keller 2007, Sprouse 2008, and Sprouse et al. 2011 for
other examples of the parsing system affecting acceptability judgments).
The standard analysis within the syntactic literature is that these island
effects are rated unacceptable by native speakers because there is a syn-
tactic constraint, such as the Subjacency Condition, that rules these struc-
tures out as ungrammatical. However, several researchers have proposed
alternative explanations that do not involve syntactic constraints at all,
but rather potentially independently motivated properties of the parsing
system such as working memory (Kluender and Kutas 1993; Kluender
1998, 2004; Hofmeister and Sag 2010), attention (Deane 1991), and focus
(Erteschik-Shir 1973; Goldberg 2007). For example, Kluender and Kutas
(1993) argue that island violations such as (2b) and (3b) are in fact gram-
matical structures, but that the unacceptability reported by speakers is in
fact the result of a combination of two relatively resource-intensive pro-
cesses that are necessary to successfully parse the sentences. These two
processes require more resources than are available to the parsing system,
and therefore cause the parsing system to fail to successfully parse the
sentences, resulting in the perception of unacceptability.
Kluender and Kutas (1993, see also Kluender 1998, 2004) are very explicit
about the two processes that they believe are the cause of the unaccept-
ability, and about the resources in question. They argue that the first
process is the maintenance of a displaced wh-word in working memory
during the processing of the sentence between the wh-word and the down-
stream gap site. The second process is the construction of the island
structure itself, which as can be seen in (2b) and (3b) involves a CP clause
that is in some ways more complex than CPs headed by that. Kluender and
Kutas (1993) argue that each of these processes requires a certain amount
of working memory resources to be deployed. Although each of these
processes can be deployed in isolation, when deployed simultaneously,
the combined resource requirements are greater than the pool of available
Experimental syntax 197
resources. At this point it should be clear that this reductionist theory
defines island effects as a psychological interaction of two (sets of) parsing
processes that occurs because the processes rely upon a single pool of
resources. Sprouse et al. (2012) suggest that this psychological interaction
can be translated into a statistical interaction between two factors, each with
two levels: length (short, long) and structure (non-island, island) (see
also Myers 2009b for a discussion of the use of factorial designs in syntax).
The factor length manipulates the length of the wh-dependency at two
levels: within a bi-clausal constituent question, a short dependency is
created by extraction of the matrix subject; a long dependency is created
by extraction of the object argument in the embedded clause. The factor
structure refers to the structure of the embedded clause (Table 11.1).
Defining island effects in this way has several advantages. First, it allows
us to isolate the effect of each of the individual factors on continuous
acceptability ratings. For example, the effect of processing long-distance
wh-dependencies can be seen by comparing the short, non-island condi-
tion to the long, non-island condition, and the effect of processing island
structures can be seen by comparing the short, non-island condition to the
short, island condition. Second, it allows us to quantify the statistical
interaction of the two factors. If there were no statistical interaction
between the two factors (i.e. if the two sets of processes impact accept-
ability ratings independently), we would expect a graph like that in
Figure 11.2(a). Figure 11.2(a) is an example of simple linear additivity
between each factor in which the cost of each process leads to a decrement
in acceptability ratings, and in which each cost sums linearly with respect
to the short/non-island condition. This linear additivity in decrements
leads to two parallel lines. However, if there were an interaction between
the two factors, we would expect a graph like that in Figure 11.2(b): super-
additivity when the long and island levels of the two factors are combined,
leading to non-parallel lines. (The hypothetical ratings in Figure 11.2 are
displayed in terms of standardized z-scores, which can be derived from any
approximately continuous rating measure, such as Likert scales or magni-
tude estimation.)
Figure 11.2(b) is in fact the pattern that is consistently observed when
the factors length and structure are independently manipulated in
acceptability experiments, although there is variation in the size of the
Table 11.1 Independent manipulation of dependency length and island
structures
Length Structure Example
short non-island Who – thinks that John bought a car?
long non-island What do you think that John bought –?
short island Who – wonders whether John bought a car?
long island What do you wonder whether John bought –?
198 J O N S P R O U S E A N D D I O G O A L M E I D A
effect of island structures alone (Kluender and Kutas 1993; Sprouse 2007a;
Sprouse et al. 2012). In this way, island effects can be defined as a statistical
interaction between two structural factors, exemplified by a super-
additive decrease in acceptability in the long, island condition.
Sprouse et al. (2012) used this interaction-based definition to test the role
of working memory resources in the acceptability of island effects. They
argued that the Kluender and Kutas (1993) analysis would predict an
inverse relationship between working memory capacity in individuals
and the strength of the super-additive interaction because the super-
additive interaction (as opposed to linear additivity) arises due to insuffi-
cient working memory capacity. Therefore one would expect participants
with higher working memory capacity to have smaller interactions, and
participants with lower working memory capacity to have larger interac-
tions. Sprouse et al. (2012) tested over 300 participants with two different
working memory tasks and two different acceptability judgment tasks
(Likert scales and magnitude estimation), and found no relationship
between working memory capacity and the size of the super-additive
interaction. From these results, they conclude that it is unlikely that work-
ing memory capacity is driving the unacceptability of island effects. In this
way, a combination of factorial designs, numerical acceptability judgment
tasks, and parsing resource tests (working memory tests, etc.) can be used
to investigate the probability of reductionist versus grammatical explan-
ations for acceptability effects, and help establish the data-theory linking
hypothesis between acceptability judgments and syntactic theory.
Though this is just one example of using experimental syntax to inves-
tigate a reductionist explanation for acceptability effects, it does suggest a
general methodology for future studies. The first step is to identify a set of
(non-structure-building) parsing-related factors that are hypothesized to
drive the effect. The simplest possible reductionist explanation is one in
which the acceptability effect of each of the factors will sum (linearly) to
the full effect (e.g., the lack of interaction in Figure 11.2(a)). If the factors do
not sum (linearly) to the full effect (e.g., the super-additive interaction in
Figure 11.2(b)), then there must be an explanation for the super-additivity. In
–0.4
–0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
z-score
rating
Main effects only
long
short
(a) (b)
–0.4
–0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
z-score
rating
Interaction
non-island structure
island structure
long
short
non-island structure
island structure
Figure 11.2 Example results for main effects (a) and interaction (b).
Experimental syntax 199
the case of island effects, the super-additive interaction was explained by the
assumption that the two processes draw on the same limited pool of working
memory resources. The explanation for the super-additivity can then be
tested by searching for correlations between the strength of the interaction
and the relevant parsing properties (e.g., working memory capacity).
11.4.2 Gradient acceptability and the nature of syntactic theory
Although it is possible to categorize sentences as either acceptable or
unacceptable in qualitative tasks such as the yes–no task, the results of
numerical judgment tasks such as magnitude estimation have suggested
that acceptability is better described by a continuous scale, with sentence
types taking values at any point along the scale. The fact that acceptability
is a continuous measure has led several researchers to investigate to what
extent the nature of the grammar itself may be continuous (Keller 2000;
Sorace and Keller 2005; Featherston 2005; Bresnan 2007). It is not uncom-
mon to encounter those who believe continuous acceptability necessitates
a continuous (or gradient) syntactic system. However, there is no necessary
link between the nature of acceptability and the nature of the syntactic
system. The question in fact hinges on (at least) three complex theoretical
issues: (i) What is the relationship between acceptability judgment data
and syntactic theories? (ii) What is the correct level of abstraction for a
computational theory? (iii) What is the continuous syntactic property that
could give rise to continuous acceptability?
Up to this point, the discussion of the relationship between acceptability
judgment data and syntactic theories has been one of inference from data
to theory: when certain extra-syntactic factors (such as parsing strategies,
parsing resources, and issues related to acceptability judgment tasks them-
selves) are held constant, modulations in acceptability judgments are
interpreted (via a linking hypothesis) as evidence about the properties of
the syntactic system. However, it is also possible to reverse the direction of
the relationship and investigate how well the syntactic theory predicts the
acceptability judgment data. While this approach is more common in the
computational modeling literature, where the term generative is used to
refer to models that can be used to generate the observable data, it seems
clear that the question of how best to account for the continuous nature of
acceptability judgments is a predictive/generative question. This can be
seen in the structure of a common argument that syntactic theories should
be gradient: (i) acceptability is continuous, (ii) categorical grammars pre-
dict categorical acceptability, (iii) gradient grammars predict continuous
acceptability, (iv) therefore the grammar must be gradient. Crucially, this
style of argument assumes that the syntactic theory is the correct locus for
the mechanisms that lead to continuous acceptability. It is clear that this is
not a logical necessity: all of the extra-syntactic components of the lan-
guage faculty that must be controlled in order to make careful inference
200 J O N S P R O U S E A N D D I O G O A L M E I D A
from acceptability data to syntactic theory (such as parsing strategies,
parsing resources, and the conscious mechanisms that underlie judgment
tasks) may be contributing to the gradience in the acceptability judgment
data, and therefore are potential sources of the mechanisms that generate
continuous acceptability. In short, once one adopts a predictive/generative
approach to modeling acceptability judgment data, the question is to what
extent should the continuous mechanisms be part of the syntactic theory,
and to what extent should the continuous mechanisms be part of the extra-
syntactic components of the language faculty.
In order to determine to what extent the syntactic theory should predict
continuous acceptability, we must be explicit about what a syntactic
theory is a theory of, and which aspects of that theory can give rise to
continuous acceptability. In Section 11.1, we presented a view of syntactic
theory as a computational level description of a part of the human lan-
guage faculty. In other words, syntactic theory is a formulation of the
properties of the syntactic structure-building mechanisms of the human
parser that abstracts away from parsing strategies, parsing resources, and
other issues that are specific to the real-time implementation of parsing
algorithms. From this perspective, there are only two options for including
gradient mechanisms within the syntactic theory. The first option is to
actually abstract away from the algorithmic level less, such that one or
more of the gradient mechanisms of the algorithmic level actually exists in
the computational level description. Bresnan (2007) has advocated a prob-
abilistic approach to the syntax of the dative construction in English that
may be an example of this sort of “weaker” abstraction, as the syntactic
theory appears to include information about the probability of the dative
construction under various morphosyntactic, semantic, and information-
structure environments – information that has previously been of primary
interest to algorithmic level sentence processing theories (see also Bresnan
and Hay 2008, Bresnan and Ford 2010).
The second option is to include an additional property in the syntactic
theory that can capture gradience. Once again, this is a complex ontological
issue, as any property that is included in the syntactic (computational)
theory must be mapped to the actual language faculty as it is implemented
in the human brain (i.e. there is a mentalistic commitment). This leads to a
stark contrast between syntactic theories in which grammaticality is a purely
theoretical construct, and syntactic theories in which grammaticality is a
mentalistic construct. In the former, grammaticality is not a property that is
available to the mental system, but rather a label that theoreticians can
apply to sentences rather than using the non-technical terms “possible/
impossible” (e.g., Chomsky 1957). In the latter, grammaticality is a property
that is available to the mental system in some form, such as when different
syntactic constraints are assumed to lead to different levels of unaccept-
ability (e.g., Huang 1982; Chomsky 1986a), or when structures are assumed
to be marked as ungrammatical (e.g., the star feature in Chomsky 1972a). As
Experimental syntax 201
Keller (2000) demonstrates for Optimality Theory, and Featherston (2005)
demonstrates for the Decathlon model, syntactic theories that assume that
grammaticality is a mentalistic construct can be used to directly predict
continuous acceptability without altering the level of abstraction in the
computational/algorithmic divide; however, the cost is assuming that gram-
maticality is a mentalistic construct rather than simply a theoretical one.
On the one hand, it is clear that experimental syntax techniques, espe-
cially numerical tasks like magnitude estimation and Likert scales, yield a
new form of continuous acceptability data that provide researchers with
the opportunity to reverse the normal direction of data–theory inference,
and construct predictive/generative syntactic theories. On the other hand,
the discussion in this subsection suggests that the interesting questions
raised by this approach are not data-driven questions. In other words, the
data enable this line of questioning, but the data don’t determine the
answer (see also Sprouse 2007b). The questions raised in this section
(such as: What is the right level of abstraction for a computational theory?
and Should syntactic theories include a gradient, mentalistic property
called grammaticality?) are theoretical questions. And like all theoretical
questions, they can only be answered through careful comparison of the
empirical adequacy of competing theories.
11.5 Conclusion
Our goal in this chapter was to review the role of experimental syntax in
the construction of an integrated cognitive science of language. While
this role is undoubtedly still evolving, it seems clear that experimental
syntax is well positioned to make substantial contributions to two ques-
tions that are central to the integration of syntactic theories with parsing
theories: Is the data underlying existing syntactic theories sound? and, What
types of inference are licensed by the linking hypothesis between acceptability
judgments and syntactic theories? Although both questions are scientifically
relevant to the theory, the current state of evidence suggests that ques-
tions about the reliability of existing judgment data may have been a
(historically driven) distraction: there appears to be no evidence that the
existing data is faulty, and growing evidence that the traditional methods
are appropriate for the majority of phenomena of interest to syntacti-
cians. This suggests that the contribution of experimental syntax in the
coming years will be as a tool for investigating what the acceptability
judgment data reveal about the nature of syntactic theory. We have seen
two examples of this approach in this chapter: the question of reduction-
ist approaches to complex syntactic phenomena (e.g., island effects), and
the question of gradient approaches to syntactic theory. Undoubtedly
there are more questions waiting to be discovered as the field progresses
toward an integrated theory of language.
202 J O N S P R O U S E A N D D I O G O A L M E I D A
12
Working memory and
language processing:
Theory, data, and
directions for future
research
Matthew W. Wagers and Brian McElree
12.1 Introduction
The goal of this chapter is to relate contemporary theories of human
memory and linguistic structure. Memory has often featured in linguistic
explanations, usually via the linking hypothesis that our ability to inter-
pret or express complex sentences can be bounded by certain properties
of the computational system involved in recognizing or interpreting
those sentences (Miller and Chomsky 1963). The general logic supporting
this hypothesis is straightforward. Comprehending or producing lan-
guage involves the construction of novel representations out of simpler,
familiar parts. In doing so, a series of decisions is implicitly made about
what the goals of analysis are and how to manipulate the set of repre-
sentations to achieve those goals. These decisions often need access to
information that is neither sequentially nor hierarchically adjacent to
the signal that triggers the decision. Take as a concrete example the
sentence in (1):
(1) The caterers inquired which appetizers Billy would prefer to serve at
the party.
The way in which a comprehender sets out to interpret the underlined VP
depends both on remembering that a wh-phrase (in bold face) was encoun-
tered in the prior clause and also on being able to gain access to its
contents. If the comprehender forgets that the wh-phrase exists, then the
VP will be incorrectly assigned its intransitive meaning. If the compre-
hender remembers that an argument has been displaced but loses access
to its contents, then that argument will potentially be assigned the wrong
thematic role. The example in (1), though readily understood, illustrates
the demands an adequate working memory system must meet to process
language. Moreover, there is substantial evidence that forgetting occurs in
ordinary language comprehension and growing evidence that the causes
of forgetting are the same as those found in other domains outside lan-
guage use. We thus believe that combining models of memory dynamics
with models of linguistic form represents a fruitful means of answering
core questions of representation.
The key idea that will organize our discussion is that there is a signifi-
cant limit on the amount or scope of information that can be concurrently
maintained and made available to on-going processing (Broadbent 1958).
Such information is said to be in focal attention. There is consequently a
functionally important interaction between the maintenance of the read-
ily accessible focal representations and the retrieval of other representa-
tions to displace or transform the current contents of focal attention. We
can untangle this interaction by answering the following questions:
(2) (Q1) When is information retrieved?
(Q2) How is information retrieved?
(Q3) What factors determine the success of retrieval?
(Q1) amounts to asking how much information can be concurrently main-
tained in focal attention. The greater the capacity of focal attention, the
less often its current contents will have to be shunted to make way for new
information. Therefore the capacity of focal attention contributes to the
expected frequency with which memory retrieval operations occur. There
is broad agreement that focal capacity is restricted. Specific estimates vary
depending on task and stimulus structure (Cowan 1995, 2001; Garavan
1998; McElree 2001, 2006; Oberauer 2002). The data we will review in this
chapter suggest that only one task-relevant representation is typically
maintained in focal attention. Information not contained in that represen-
tation can only directly influence processing if it is retrieved to replace the
focal representation.
(Q2) asks for the mechanism by which other previously constructed
representations are restored to the focus of attention. The answer to (Q2)
depends in part on the architecture of working memory: that is, what lies
“beyond” the focus of attention. McElree (2006) draws a distinction
between bi-partite and tri-partite working memory architectures. In bi-
partite architectures, information can only occupy two states: active, in the
focus of attention, or passive, in its durably encoded long-term memory
(LTM) state. In tri-partite architectures, an intermediate state exists for
information not currently being processed which is nonetheless not sim-
ply in LTM. For some models, like Baddeley (1986), this intermediate state
corresponds to a short-term memory store that is separate from long-term
memory – like a buffer. Other models, like Cowan (1995, 2001) or Oberauer
204 M A T T H E W W . W A G E R S A N D B R I A N M C E L R E E
(2002), reject a separate short-term store but claim that a small amount of
recently used information is so highly activated as to be functionally
distinct from other LTM encodings. In Section 12.2.2, we discuss behav-
ioral evidence from memory dynamics that favors the bi-partite architec-
ture, in the following sense: when the speed of processing is appropriately
measured in a number of memory-retrieval tasks, there appears to be a
dichotomous split between the speed with which focal and non-focal
information can influence processing.
The bi-partite architecture makes a clear prediction about the mecha-
nisms of retrieval. Because encodings outside of the focus of attention are
in the same state as LTM, then it is predicted that the retrieval of
recently encoded information will proceed in largely the same way as
information encoded in LTM. Though it is not likely the case that there is
a “single mechanism” of retrieving LTM, that is, extra-focal encodings, the
dominant mechanism appears to be content-addressable retrieval.
Content-addressable retrieval refers to the use of the contents of memory
encodings themselves in the access procedure. Inherent features of the
desired encoding are used as probes to identify matching candidate encod-
ings. Content-addressability is implementable in a variety of architectures
and is characteristic of most contemporary human memory models (Clark
and Gronlund 1996; Gillund and Shiffrin 1984; Hinton 1989; Hintzman
1988; Kawamoto 1988; Murdock 1982; Plaut 1997; cf. Gallistel and King
2009). Content-addressability may be compared with another mode of
access, in which arbitrary address labels serve as indexes to information.
In the absence of knowing the address label, the memory must be searched
to locate matching data. In a random-access memory the hardware is so
structured for accessing memory by location; however, data structures and
algorithms exist, like hash tables, for achieving forms of content-
addressability or at least for obviating exhaustive searches (Kohonen
1980). The key advantage of building content-addressability features into
a memory system is that, when information of a certain type is desired, it is
often not necessary for the system to consult or otherwise be influenced by
irrelevant information. This contrasts with search procedures that require
pairwise comparisons of the desired information with each memory
record in the search set. Content-addressable retrievals yield retrieval
times that are independent of the size of the search set. Searches, in
contrast, yield retrieval times that are proportional to set size (Sternberg
1966, 1975; Theios 1973; Treisman and Doctor 1987). The second advant-
age of content-addressability is thus its speed.
What answer does content-addressable retrieval provide to (Q3)? The
major determinant of retrieval success is the match between the informa-
tion used at retrieval – the cues – and the desired encoding. If the combi-
nation of cues used at retrieval is sufficiently distinct, then retrieval
success will be high. However, if they apply to many different encodings
in memory, than the wrong encoding may be retrieved. This phenomenon
Working memory and language processing 205
is referred to as similarity-based interference. This is the trade-off for the
fast access times associated with content-addressable memories: irrele-
vant encodings that are similar to the desired encodings can negatively
impact processing. As we’ll see, this problem is potentially very acute for
linguistic representations. Because linguistic representations are recur-
sive, compositional objects built out of a relatively small repertoire of
atomic parts, they contain highly self-similar subparts. On the one hand,
much available evidence suggests that content-addressability nonetheless
prevails in memory retrieval for language processing. Moreover, there is
growing evidence of similarity-based interference in certain environ-
ments. On the other hand, there is a large body of evidence indicating
that much of sentence processing is grammatically accurate, and
interference-robust. An important research question is how these two
sets of empirical observations might be reconciled. It may be that different
linguistic phenomena are processed by distinct memory mechanisms.
According to this view, fast, interference-prone memory operations char-
acterize some kinds of dependencies in language; while slower, search-
style operations characterize others. A second (non-exclusive) possibility is
that the systems which encode linguistic representations and manage the
cues used at retrieval have become effectively adapted to the nature of
linguistic representations, such that optimally diagnostic cue sets are used
in retrieval. We will consider evidence for both of these possibilities below.
In Section 12.2, we discuss the evidence for focal attention from basic
memory research. We first introduce the main source of data we draw
upon in our own research, the speed–accuracy trade-off technique. Then
we discuss its application to language processing. In Section 12.3, we
discuss evidence that content-addressable retrieval is used in many natural
language dependencies. In Section 12.4, we review the evidence that
similarity-based interference is a central cause of forgetting in language.
In Section 12.5, we conclude with some new theoretical assumptions
about how linguistic structure interacts with a capacity-limited memory
and outline questions for future research.
12.2 The focus of attention in memory and language
12.2.1 Background
The search for a systematic relationship between the “grain-size” of com-
positional representations and the processor’s capacity limitations was
one of the earliest research questions in modern psycholinguistics.
Though the link has never been explicitly drawn to focal attention, a
number of researchers have asked how large structured representations
are “chunked” into smaller pieces for analysis and storage. At issue in the
earliest studies were the principles of perceptual segmentation – that is,
how perceivers divided linguistic input into units for further analysis.
206 M A T T H E W W . W A G E R S A N D B R I A N M C E L R E E
Researchers deployed a variety of tasks to show that when attempting to
recall or respond to sententially embedded words, behavioral discontinu-
ities could be observed which were aligned with important details of
syntactic structure – very frequently the sentence boundaries. An excellent
introduction to these studies can be found in Fodor, Bever and Garrett
(1974) or more recently in Townsend and Bever (2001). We will mention
only a few of the most relevant here.
Perhaps best known among the attempts to relate principles of percep-
tual organization to linguistic descriptions are the click dislocation experi-
ments (Fodor and Bever 1965; Garrett, Bever, and Fodor 1966; Bever,
Lackner, and Kirk 1969; Reber and Anderson 1970; Chapin, Smith, and
Abrahamson 1972; Bever 1973; among others). Ladefoged and Broadbent
(1960) observed that perceivers are relatively inaccurate in recalling the
location of a short burst of noise (i.e. a click) when it has been inserted in a
speech stimulus. Crucially, participants were found to be more accurate in
locating clicks when the stimulus was a string of unrelated words than
when it constituted a grammatical sentence. This contrast suggested that
the ability to accurately locate the click was affected by higher-level influ-
ences on stimulus encoding. Fodor and Bever (1965) then showed that
participants tended to recall clicks as occurring at or attracted to major
constituent boundaries near the words into which they were inserted –
and these nearly always corresponded to clausal boundaries. For example,
in the following sentence, clicks were spliced into either the middle of the
word “but” or in the word “fast.” Regardless of serial position, however,
participants tended to recall the click occurring between “fast” and “but.”
(3) Peter ran quite fast but we caught him in the narrow alley.
Bever, Lackner and Kirk (1969) considered further sentence structures.
Particularly intriguing was the distinction obtained between clauses
embedded by verbs like “persuade” versus verbs like “expect,” as in the
bracketed sentences (4a) vs. (4b). In (4a), the DP that immediately follows is
VP-internal whereas in (4b), the DP originates inside the verb’s TP argu-
ment. Despite the surface similarity of the two sentences, Bever, Lackner,
and Kirk found that nearby clicks were reported as occurring between
“Bill” and “to” more often in (4a) than in (4b), consistent with the syntactic
and semantic distinctions between the strings.
(4) (a) John persuaded [DP
Bill ][TP
to leave ]
(b) John expected [TP
[DP
Bill] to leave ]
The authors took this for evidence that deep structure sentence bounda-
ries, and not just surface structure boundaries, influenced segmentation.
This claim is perhaps moot from a contemporary viewpoint about syntac-
tic process and representation, though the data remain relevant.
Depending on whether or not there is raising-to-object in (4b) (Postal
1974), we might say that the derivational history of the sentence matters
Working memory and language processing 207
in determining perceptual segmentation; or it may be that something less
directly related to constituent structure matters, like the argument struc-
ture of the two verbs involved.
The insights guiding these experiments are not very dissimilar from the
implications of a focal/non-focal distinction: the analysis of the input is
capacity limited and the products of analysis will reflect that constraint.
This reasoning was inherited from Broadbent’s single-channel hypothesis
(1958). It may be helpful to think of a car trying to enter the freeway – it can
only be done (without accident) when there is a break in the flow of traffic.
In the case of the clicks, it was reasoned that study participants could only
encode their location when a perceptual segment boundary was passed.
Passing the boundary briefly freed up the input channel and allowed the
participant to register the click.
Other researchers applied word recall techniques (Jarvella 1971) or
whole-sentence recognition probes (Sachs 1967) to gain insight into the
units used to encode linguistic stimuli. These studies all identified clause
membership as an important determinant of what constituents were
immediately or faithfully accessible. Jarvella’s study illustrates this pat-
tern: when participants were asked to recall words in a sentence, recall
was nearly perfect if the words occurred in the immediately preceding
clause. Accuracy fell modestly for words that occurred in a prior clause
which was nonetheless a constituent of an immediately preceding root
sentence. However, recall accuracy dropped precipitously for words occur-
ring in a clause or sentence that did not most recently precede the recall
prompt.
Based on all of this evidence, Fodor, Bever, and Garrett (1974) concluded
that potential surface clause boundaries initially delimited the units of
encoding. To comprehend a sentence, the clause boundaries must first be
(heuristically) located, after which the material within their span can be
analyzed more deeply and assigned a fuller constituent structure. Carroll
and Tanenhaus (1978) argued instead that segmentability fell along a cline
and that it was not deterministically related to fixed boundaries. For
example, they provided evidence that gerunds were not analyzed sepa-
rately from the clause containing them, unless an overt subject was
present. Regardless of the exact principles governing segmentation, most
proposals of the era concluded that fairly large grammatical domains
delimited the memory encodings.
Based on the experiments of the 1960s and 1970s, we might conclude
that the clause, or perhaps something larger, like the category CP, defines
the span of focal attention. These experiments consistently showed that
clause boundaries exerted a strong influence on many mnemonic proper-
ties of linguistic materials. However such a conclusion would be prema-
ture, for two reasons. The first stems from the observation that the
comprehension processes that assign a syntactic analysis and deliver an
interpretation operate well below the clause level. With the advent of
208 M A T T H E W W . W A G E R S A N D B R I A N M C E L R E E
word-by-word experimental techniques, it soon became clear that pro-
cesses at all levels of analysis quickly interweave as single words are
incorporated into a sentence, delivering the relevant representations
incrementally (Marslen-Wilson 1975). Incremental syntactic analysis and
semantic interpretation, occurring in step-sizes much smaller than a
clause, suggested that compositional structure must initially be encoded
in smaller chunks (see Frazier and Fodor 1978). However, there have been
few direct empirical attempts since the 1960s to measure the scope of
structured encodings within a clause. Working memory constraints have
still played an active role in theory-building (e.g., Gibson 1998, 2000, Just
and Carpenter 1992, Lewis 1996), but inferences about encoding accessi-
bility has usually been indirectly based on the moment-to-moment com-
plexity measures derived from reading-time studies.
The second caution has to do with how we characterize working mem-
ory. The phrase “working memory” has many senses in common use, at
least among psycholinguists. For our purposes, it is important to draw a
distinction between “working memory” as the sum of the many compo-
nent parts and processes that support the encoding, retention, and recol-
lection of recently encountered information; and “working memory” as
the particular mechanism for maintaining information over the shortest
term (sometimes, “short-term memory,” or STM; but usage is not always
consistent; see Cowan 2005, for a clear account). It is the latter sense that
pertains to focal attention – the label we prefer. Because we can talk about
the working memory system as a whole, or a component of the system,
like focal attention, it is underinformative to describe the span of working
memory merely in terms of typical task success – for example, how many
words can be recalled – since task success will be a function of many
component processes. Thus the fact that recall from language stimuli is
strongly clause-delimited does not allow us to conclude that maintenance
occurs in clause-sized pieces. Therefore we now turn to methods for more
directly measuring the accessibility of information, as that information is
being used in language processing.
12.2.2 Measuring processing speed
Issues of how accessible different representations might be, how different
representations are accessed, and what factors control access to a repre-
sentation are usually best addressed with measures of processing speed.
In this section, we will spend some time discussing how to best measure
processing speed. In doing so, it is necessary to introduce the response–
signal speed–accuracy trade-off procedure (SAT). We will refer to SAT
measures throughout the remainder of the text.
A seemingly natural candidate for estimating processing speed is
response time (RT), a measure that is often used to investigate hypotheses
about the dynamics of information processing. Unfortunately, however,
Working memory and language processing 209
RT is not a pure measure of processing speed, as it can vary with the quality
of the underlying memory representations alone (e.g., Dosher 1976, 1981;
McElree and Dosher 1989; Ratcliff 1978; Wickelgren 1977). Information
quality is often captured by such constructs as strength, distinctiveness,
or fragility – properties that can be ascribed to individual representations
or to the match between individual representations and the cues used
to retrieve them in context. For language processing, another relevant
determinant of information quality is the likelihood that a sequence of
operations, each with its own failure rate, produces a usable output.
Because RT depends on the quality of representations, and not only on
the time necessary to manipulate them, it is impossible to uniquely infer a
difference in processing speed given only a difference in RT.
To measure processing speed directly, one needs to derive a full time-
course function that measures how accuracy varies with processing time.
This enables speed to be measured with co-varying differences in informa-
tion quality (Luce 1986; Wickelgren 1977; Reed 1973, 1976). The response–
signal speed–accuracy trade-off (SAT) procedure derives such functions by
tracking changes in the accuracy of a response as information accrues over
time. Participants are trained to judge some key aspect of a test stimulus
(e.g., whether a probe word was present in a studied list, whether a sentence
is acceptable) within several predefined 100–300 ms windows, marked by
the presentation of a response cue (a tone). The windows are chosen so that
the full time-course of processing is sampled, from times when performance
is at chance to times when performance has reached maximum (asymptotic)
accuracy. Accuracy is usually scaled in d´ units, by taking the difference
between the z-scores of the probabilities of correctly responding that a
stimulus property is present (a hit) and incorrectly responding that a stim-
ulus property is present (a false alarm; see MacMillan and Creelman 1991). By
penalizing the false alarms, d´ corrects against response bias.
Figure 12.1 illustrates two typical SAT functions. A good model of typical
SAT data is given by the following shifted, saturated exponential function,
with the parameters λ, δ, and β:1
(5) d0
= λ(1 − e−β(t −δ)
) , t > δ,
d0
= 0 , otherwise
SAT data typically display three identifiable phases:
(6) a. A period of chance performance
In the model function, this period is captured by the SAT intercept
parameter, δ (ms). Where t ≤ δ, d0
is defined as 0.
b. A period of increasing accuracy
In the model function, the rate of increase is captured by the SAT
rate parameter, β (ms−1
). 1/β is sometimes called the function’s time
constant. When t = (1/β) + δ, then d0
is ~ 63%, or (1 – e−1
), of ultimate
attained accuracy.
210 M A T T H E W W . W A G E R S A N D B R I A N M C E L R E E
c. An asymptotic period
In the model function, asymptotic accuracy is captured by the SAT
parameter, λ (d´).
The SAT asymptote parameter, λ, measures the overall probability of a
certain response, such as correctly retrieving an item; and it provides
estimates of information quality. Figure 12.1(a) depicts a case in which
asymptotic accuracy varies between two conditions, while other parame-
ters are held constant. Processing speed is jointly measured by the point at
which information first becomes available, the SAT intercept, δ, and the
rate at which accuracy grows from chance to asymptote, the SAT rate, β.
Figure 12.1(b) depicts two functions with different intercepts and rates of
rise to asymptote (here, the functions are shown rising to a common
asymptote).
A difference in either rate or intercept will give rise to disproportional
SAT dynamics, with the functions reaching a given proportion of their
respective asymptotes at different times (vertical lines in Figure 12.1(b)).
Disproportional dynamics, whether due to differences in intercept or rate,
indicate underlying differences in either the rate of continuous informa-
tion accrual if processing is continuous or the distribution of finishing
times if processing is discrete (Dosher 1979, 1981, 1982, 1984; Meyer et al.
Accuracy
(in
d′
units)
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
(a)
1.0 1.5 2.0
Condition X
Condition Y
Processing time (in s)
(b)
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.5
1.0
1.0
1.5
1.5
2.0
2.0
Figure 12.1 Hypothetical SAT functions. Panel (a) depicts two functions that differ in asymp-
totic accuracy alone. Panel (b) depicts two functions that differ in rate and intercept alone.
Horizontal lines intersecting the y-axis indicate performance levels at (1 – e−1
)
̇asymptote
(~63%, reﬂecting to the function’s time constant). Vertical lines intersecting the x-axis
indicate the time at which 63% asymptote is attained. Note that in Panel (a), the latencies
do not differ but asymptotic accuracy does; whereas in Panel (b), the latencies differ but the
asymptotic accuracies are identical.
Working memory and language processing 211
1988; Ratcliff 1988). Crucially, we can assess whether conditions differ in
processing speed by examining the intercepts and rates of the SAT func-
tions, regardless of whether or not they differ in asymptote (e.g., Dosher
1981, 1984; Hintzman and Caulton 1994, 1997; McElree 1996, 1998, 2001;
McElree and Dosher 1989, 1993; Ratcliff 1978; Reed 1973, 1976;
Wickelgren 1977).
12.2.3 Diagnosing information in focal attention
The information that is directly and concurrently accessible to cognitive
processes is said to be in focal attention. Several lines of evidence, using
measurements derived from a variety of cognitive and perceptual tasks,
support the idea that only a limited amount of information can be main-
tained in focal attention (Broadbent 1958; Cowan 2001, 2006). Measures of
the speed of accessing information provide perhaps the most direct,
unequivocal evidence for a unique representational state involving focal
attention (McElree 1998, 2001, 2006). The logic is straightforward: infor-
mation in focal attention should be processed quickly, as it does not need
to be retrieved before it can be used in on-going operations. Memory
retrieval studies provide strong support for this claim.
For example, consider an item recognition study. The task for participants
is to study a list of words, presented sequentially, and then indicate whether
or not a test item was present in the list. When no other activity intervenes
between the last item studied and test, then the item is accessed at an
exceptionally fast rate: 30–50% faster than other items in the list, as meas-
ured by SAT rate, intercept or both (McElree 1996, 1998, 2006; McElree and
Dosher 1989, 1993; Öztekin and McElree 2007; Wickelgren et al. 1980).
Figure 12.2 illustrates this phenomenon with data from McElree (1996).
In the studies depicted in Figure 12.2, participants studied 6-word lists,
presented word by word. After the final word, a visual mask was first
displayed and then a test probe (Figure 12.2(a)). Depending on the trial,
participants judged whether the test probe was in the memory list (Panel
(b)), rhymed with an item in the list (Panel (c); the sample trial depicted in
(a)), or was a synonym of an item in the list (Panel (d)). In each case,
responses to the last item studied were highly accurate and, crucially,
were associated with fast processing dynamics. In this case, the faster
dynamics were associated with an earlier intercept, but the difference
often is expressed in rate (see McElree and Dosher 1989; McElree 1996,
1998). Asymptotic accuracy, a measure of the likelihood of retrieving an
item, showed the standard bowed serial position functions consistent with
standard forgetting models (ibid.). Accuracy increased with the recency of
study, with a small “primacy” effect for the first list item. However,
retrieval speed showed a sharply dichotomous pattern: processing speed
was fast for the last item, but all other items were retrieved with a slower
speed, which did not vary with recency.
212 M A T T H E W W . W A G E R S A N D B R I A N M C E L R E E
Could the speed advantage observed for the final item be attributed to a
relatively low-level perceptual effect, rather than an encoded memory of
the stimulus? Setting aside the fact that study and test were interrupted by
a visual mask, the data from McElree (1996) makes the case that what
matters for obtaining the speed advantage is that the test response depend
on the last task-relevant representation to occupy focal attention. For the
rhyme test, focal attention must include information about the word’s
phonology. For the synonym test, it must include information about the
word’s semantic features. Note that these results do not necessarily imply
that all conceivable information about a word was available – upon pre-
sentation of the mask, participants were cued about which judgment was
required so they could have transformed the last representation
accordingly.
Furthermore, several findings indicate that the speed advantage is
uniquely linked to whether a test item was in focal attention, not simply
that it was in final position. Procedures that encourage subjects to rein-
state items from different list positions in focal attention provide direct
support for this claim. McElree (2006) found a dynamics advantage for
items from an earlier part of the list when subjects were pre-cued to
retrieve these items just before a test. Further, in a controlled rehearsal
study, in which subjects were instructed to covertly rehearse items on the
list to an external signal, McElree (2006) found that the advantage tracked
with the items that subjects would have been rehearsing at test time.
McElree (1996)
s
t
u
d
y
l
i
s
t
p
r
o
b
e
v
i
s
u
a
l
m
a
s
k
(a) Item judgments
Accuracy
(d’)
Accuracy
(d’)
Accuracy
(d’)
0
0
0
–1
–1
–1
1
1
1
2
2
2
3
3
3
Serial position 1
Serial position 2
Serial position 3
Serial position 4
Serial position 5
4
4
4
(c)
(d)
(b)
rat
CHAIR?
Rhyme judgments
Synonym judgments
0 1 2 3
Processing time (lag plus latency)
in seconds
pear
cook
%@#&@#
rat
Figure 12.2 The focal attention advantage in three trial types.
Working memory and language processing 213
Importantly, clear correlates of this speed advantage are found in other
measures. In RT tasks, items associated with fast SAT dynamics not only
show distinctly lower mean RTs, but also that the entire RT distribution is
being shifted toward earlier times (McElree 1993, 1998; Oberauer 2002,
2006). In fMRI, Öztekin et al. (2008) found that conditions that engender
fast SAT dynamics are associated with less activity in the hippocampus, a
region involved with successful episodic retrieval, and less activity in the
inferior frontal gyrus, a region thought to be involved with retrieval effort
(e.g. Cabeza et al., 2003). These patterns suggest that retrieval operations
are not required for information in focal attention.
12.2.4 Language and focal attention
There have only been a few attempts to confirm the influence of focal
attention on language processing. The three studies we will describe here
each test different hypotheses about the relation between constituent
identity and size and what can be maintained in focal attention. Before
moving on to those studies there is one finding from the basic memory
studies that is an important predecessor to pursuing linguistic hypotheses.
A reasonable question to ask is whether or not anything larger than a word
can occupy focal attention. If the answer were no, then it is unlikely
that there is any systematic relationship between linguistic description
beyond the lexical level and what can concurrently be attended. The best
“pre-linguistic” evidence comes from McElree (1998). In this study, a list of
nine words was presented to participants, followed by a mask and test
probe (as depicted in Figure 12.2). However, the words were not randomly
selected. Instead they comprised three triplets of category exemplars from
nine categories which were used experiment-wide. For example, the list in
(7) can be described as a sequence of nine words, or a sequence of three
categories (animal, body part, article of clothing).
(7) [ANIMAL
DOG HORSE PIG]
[BODY PART
LEG HEAD FOOT]
[CLOTHING
HAT DRESS TIE]
McElree (1998) measured the speed of processing using the SAT procedure
and found that a rate advantage was found not simply for the last word (i.e.
“tie”) but for any word in the last category (i.e. “hat,” “dress,” “tie”). This
result is, in one sense, unsurprising. As Miller (1956) and many others have
observed, large sets of information can more effectively be retained if
there is an encoding scheme that reduces the dimensionality of the set –
the phenomenon broadly referred to as “chunking.” Similarly, Jonides
et al. (2008) emphasize that the restriction of maintenance processes to
single, “atomic” representations is simply cognitively implausible, as few
operations can be conceived as unary relations. McElree (1998) is a useful
result, however, since it increases our confidence that the SAT rate
214 M A T T H E W W . W A G E R S A N D B R I A N M C E L R E E
advantage truly tracks something functionally relevant: the attended con-
tents in working memory and not merely single words.
McElree, Foraker, and Dyer (2003) extended the findings of McElree
(1998) by asking whether focal attention subtended linguistic categories.
In Experiment 2 of that study, sentences were created which systemati-
cally extended a DP in subject position, as the set in (8) illustrates:
(8) (a) subject + ∅ + verb
The editor laughed.
(b) [ subject + object relative clause ] + verb
The editor that the book amused laughed.
(c) [ subject + pp + o.r.c. ] + verb
The editor of the prestigious journal that the book amused laughed.
(d) [ subject + [ o.r.c. [+ subject relative clause] ] ] + verb
The editor that the book that won the award amused laughed.
(e) [ subject + [ o.r.c. + [ o.r.c. ] ] ] + verb
The editor that the book that the journalist wrote amused laughed.
The SAT procedure was adapted to sentence materials by presenting the
sentences one word at a time (Rapid Serial Visual Presentation, Potter
1988). At the tone cue which followed the final word, participants were
trained to make an acceptability judgment (McElree and Griffith 1995,
1998). Unacceptable foils to the acceptable sentences in (8) involved anom-
alous unaccusative clauses in the case of animate subjects (“the editor
ripped”) or anomalous unergative clauses in the case of inanimate subjects
(“the book laughed”). Both inanimate and animate subjects were used in
this study. Since a verb like “laugh” might be acceptable paired with one
subject phrase and unacceptable paired with another, it was impossible for
experimental participants to guess the acceptability of the sentence before
processing the final word. Thus the SAT speed parameters can reasonably
be said to measure the accessibility of information contributed by the head
of the subject phrase at the onset of the verb phrase.
McElree, Foraker, and Dyer’s results are plotted in Figure 12.3. There was a
steady decline in asymptotic accuracy as the subject phrase increased in
length. This was not surprising, since accuracy can reflect the compounded
success rate of a series of operations. In McElree and colleagues’ stimuli,
longer phrases were also syntactically more complex, and so it is plausible
more analysis was required. Importantly, however, rates did not steadily
decline with length. Firstly, there was a large speed advantage for adjacent
subjects and verbs (8a) compared to subjects that had been modified (8b–e).
This was reflected in the rate parameter of the best fitting functions. These
data suggest that the properties of the subject phrase necessary to discrim-
inate acceptable sentences from unacceptable sentences were displaced from
focal attention during the process of modifying the subject head.2
Sentences
(8b–d) shared a common rate parameter, which is consistent with our earlier
claim that accessibility in memory is essentially a dichotomous variable:
Working memory and language processing 215
either a representation is focal or it is not. As we’ll discuss in Section 12.3, it
has important consequences for our understanding of memory access oper-
ations: increasing the number of elements which intervene between depend-
ents does not necessarily affect processing speed. However, (8e) was
processed at an ever slower rate than (8b–d). The authors argue that this
derives from the high likelihood of misanalyzing the two relative clauses in
those sentences (consistent with their center self-embedded status, which is
exacerbated for two object relative clauses; see Gibson and Thomas 1999). It is
known that SAT measures are sensitive to reanalysis (Bornkessel and
Schlesewsky 2004), so this is a plausible explanation.
The pattern established by McElree, Foraker, and Dyer (2003) seems in
many ways compatible with the data on clause-bounded processing.
However the conclusion is more nuanced: the study does not show that
any information immediately contained in the current clause is equally
accessible. It shows, instead, that an embedded clause is sufficient to
displace details about its embedding environment from focal attention.
However clauses are large, complex linguistic domains – so it is perhaps
not surprising that they are sufficient. The question naturally arises
whether anything smaller than a clause can displace the contents of
focal information. McElree and Wagers (2009) included an attempt to
replicate McElree, Foraker, and Dyer (2003). Crucially they included a
condition missing from the original experiment: a non-clausal modifier.
In this condition, a subject-attached PP was inserted between the subject
and the verb, as in “The editor of the journal laughed.” Overall the pattern
of rates replicated McElree, Foraker, and Dyer. Verbs separated from the
subject by a relative clause were processed more slowly, compared to an
adjacent subject–verb baseline. Crucially, though, verbs separated from
their subjects by a PP were processed as quickly as verbs adjacent to the
subject. Thus, not all attachments displace the subject from focal
attention.3
Processing time (lag plus latency) in seconds
0.0
0
1
2
Accuracy
(d’)
3
4
0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0
Rate
3.2 s–1
(0.312 s)
2.4 s–1
(0.416 s)
1.7 s–1
(0.588 s)
One Object RC
No Interpolation
Two Object RC
PP + Object RC
Object + Subject RCs
Figure 12.3 McElree, Foraker, and Dyer (2003) Focal attention and subjects. The best-ﬁtting
model for these data assigned ﬁve different asymptotes to the ﬁve conditions; three rates;
and a common intercept. Speed-of-processing comparisons can thus be made on the basis of
the rate parameter, β, alone. β’s three values and how they map to the conditions is indicated
in the right margin
216 M A T T H E W W . W A G E R S A N D B R I A N M C E L R E E
McElree, Foraker, and Dyer (2003), and its recent replication and extension
by Wagers and McElree (2009), demonstrated that language processing
shows the same functional signatures of focal attention as do more basic
laboratory memory tasks. The properties of the subject phrase necessary to
discriminate between acceptable and unacceptable stimuli were more
immediately available when the subject was adjacent to the verb, or when
the subject was only separated by a PP. Thus intervening material can dis-
place information currently being maintained in the focus of attention.
However, the non-clausal modifier condition in Wagers and McElree (2009)
showed that not just any intervening material is sufficient to displace the
subject. What the relevant difference is that leads to displacement in the case
of relative clauses but not in the case of PP remains open to investigation.
Some candidate hypotheses include the sheer difference in size and com-
plexity; the typical argument status of PPs used in the study compared to the
adjunct status of relative clauses; or the fact that relative clauses themselves
include a subject–verb relationship. The last hypothesis is compatible with a
hypothesis according to which the encodings of multiple relationships may
be maintainable in the focus of attention, but that those relationships cannot
be too similar. We return to this idea in Section 12.5.
One difficulty with the subject–verb data is that it is unclear what, exactly,
is shunted from focal attention. It could be the entire subject phrase (at least,
the phrase minus its relative clause sub-part), or it could be those features of
the subject phrase necessary to make the discrimination. Heuristically the
relevant factor is likely to be animacy or a related notion. Unfortunately,
though the materials were normed for overall acceptability, it is not possible
to pinpoint the precise features necessary to perform the task. In a separate
study, Wagers and McElree (2010) tested a different type of dependency, one
for which the relevant discriminative property could be more objectively
established: determiner–noun agreement in English demonstrative DPs. In
the case of agreement discrimination, it is clearer what information is
necessary to complete the task: the phi-features of the two agreeing ele-
ments. Wagers and McElree presented participants with DPs of three differ-
ent lengths in sentence-final position. An example set is given in (9).
(9) The detective was mistaken about the location of . . .
(a) adjacent: Demφ + NPφ
. . . that burglar/*burglars.
(b) +1 intervenor: Demφ + AP1 + NPφ
. . . that risk-taking burglar/*burglars.
(c) +2 intervenors: Demφ + AP1 + AP2 + NPφ
. . . that clever, risk-taking burglar/*burglars.
A full set of conditions included both number values (that burglar, those
burglars) and the materials were evenly split between proximal and distal
demonstratives. The results showed the familiar dichotomous pattern:
faster discrimination for agreement contrasts in D-NP adjacent DPs, than
Working memory and language processing 217
for DPs in which a modifier intervened. The absolute rate difference
between adjacent and non-adjacent conditions was 94 ms, which was
quite similar to the focal slow-down obtained in the subject verb studies
(see note 2). The fact that the three agreement discrimination conditions
were best described by two rates, and not three, suggested that the
slowing could not be attributed merely to extra compositional steps
required for the additional modifiers. Control conditions in which a
semantic anomaly was present (e.g., “the clever, risk-taking jewels”)
did show the incremental cost for extra modification: the +2 intervenor
condition was approximately 200 ms slower than the +1 intervenor
condition.
The DP agreement data showed that a focal/non-focal split could obtain
for a grammatical domain much smaller than a clause. Of course, DPs are
themselves complex grammatical domains (Abney 1987; Leu 2008).
Moreover the possibility remains that the use of complex participial
modifiers exacerbated the maintenance of determiner information.
Nonetheless the results highlight two possibilities: (1) that displacement
from focal attention is possible even for dependencies that span one or
two words; and (2) that being dominated by the same TP/CP is itself not
sufficient for concurrent maintenance. There was, however, a further
important qualification to the agreement data: a two-rate pattern only
held for singular DPs. For plural DPs, the same fast rate was associated
with both adjacent and non-adjacent conditions. There was thus an
interaction with the value of the number feature and its survival in
focal attention. Wagers and McElree argued that the markedness of the
plural number value could be responsible for the fact that it was main-
tained over all DP lengths. This observation is not unfamiliar and is
consistent with a large body of data on agreement processing. It has
often been observed that marked feature values are liable to intrude
upon agreement processes in a phenomenon called agreement attrac-
tion, leading to productions like “The pathSG
to the monumentsPL
arePL
littered with bottles” (Bock and Miller 1991; Eberhard 1997; Eberhard,
Cutting, and Bock 2005, Badecker and Kuminiak, 2007; Franck 2009). An
analogue of agreement attraction can be found in comprehension,
reflected in reduced reading times for anomalous strings (Pearlmutter,
Garnsey, and Bock 1999; Wagers, Lau, and Phillips 2009) or insensitivity
to agreement errors in acceptability judgments (Wagers, Lau, and Phillips
2009). Analyses have also been proposed that generate the effect via
purely grammatical mechanisms (Kayne 1989; den Dikken 2001), though
these accounts have been challenged (Wagers, Lau, and Phillips 2009).
One explanation for the plural number value’s longevity in focal atten-
tion comes from the use of a privative feature vocabulary. Maintaining a
marked feature value preserves information about that feature, even if
other features are shunted. The presence of [pl] dominated by the deter-
miner unambiguously signals plurality in English.4
In contrast, the
218 M A T T H E W W . W A G E R S A N D B R I A N M C E L R E E
absence of a number feature is ambiguous: it could derive from a singular
determiner perfectly maintained or from a plural determiner whose
number feature had been shunted. The comprehender faced with an
absence of number information could retrieve the determiner’s full fea-
ture set to ascertain whether the default number value is appropriate, or
whether a plural feature was simply forgotten. Thus long singular DPs
would tend to be processed more slowly than shorter ones, since retrieval
would be necessitated more often. Long plural DPs, on the other hand,
will have rates more comparable to short plural DPs, since retrieval will
be necessary relatively less often. Of course it remains a coherent possi-
bility that greater longevity in focal attention is simply another property
that clusters with other indicators of markedness. For example, marked
forms are typically rarer, and the surprise of encountering a rare form
could flag it as worthy of preservation.
Though it is not yet possible to formulate a comprehensive theory of
linguistic focal attention given the present sparse data set, we can enter-
tain some preliminary conclusions. We began our discussion with the idea
of clause-based processing, according to which a relatively fixed structural
domain determined the scope of concurrent processing. However, the
comparison of the subject–verb studies with the DP agreement studies
favors the idea that the decision about whether or not to maintain infor-
mation can be relativized to feature types and values – and is not deter-
mined merely by the inclusion of a constituent boundary. The results
would otherwise be surprising, since the intervenors in the subject–verb
studies were arguably larger and more complex than the intervenors in the
DP agreement studies. To be concrete, we suppose (1) that it was animacy
information that was necessary for discriminating between acceptable and
unacceptable stimuli in the subject–verb studies; (2) that it was number
information that was necessary for making the same discrimination in the
determiner agreement studies; and (3) that animacy information is simply
more likely to be maintained in focal attention than number information.
Of course, the clearest prediction of such an account is that the focal/non-
focal split should appear at different lengths for different feature types
across the same constructions. In other words, the focal rate advantage for
subject phrases containing a PP could shift if the basis of discrimination
were number. In Section 12.5 below, we return to this problem. There is,
however, one final data set that tells us something about what linguistic
focal attention is, or, more accurately, what it is not.
Recall that McElree (2006) showed that it need not be the final element
in a series which occupies focal attention. The structure of the task
impacts how attention is divided: rehearsal instructions or the use of an
n-back paradigm can shift the rate advantage to other elements in the
series (or, more accurately, shift the distribution of the rate advantage
over elements in the series). The studies discussed above were essentially
about how much information could be processed that was relevant to the
Working memory and language processing 219
last encountered element before other information had to be shunted.
However, we should also ask whether any information independent of
the last element can be maintained. There have been proposals, for exam-
ple, about the relationship between information structure and cognitive
mechanisms of maintenance and activation (Deane 1991; Gundel 1999).
For example, Gundel (1999) proposed that focused information, in the
information structure sense, is literally in the focus of attention. As
we’ve seen, that participants can sometimes maintain a target item in
focal attention while processing intervening information demonstrates
that active maintenance of constituents in focal attention during compre-
hension is within the bounds of known cognitive abilities. Foraker and
McElree (2007) have considered this question with respect to syntactic
clefting, a linguistic device that typically brings its clefted constituent
into Focus (capitalized here to emphasize its information structure
sense). Using both eye-tracking and the SAT technique, they asked whether
cross-sentential anaphora was resolved any more quickly when the appro-
priate referent was the clefted constituent of a preceding sentence. Each
stimulus consisted of an antecedent sentence and a short continuation
sentence. The example materials set in (10) illustrates their design, which
crossed cleft type (it-cleft, wh-cleft), target referent (clefted or not), and
acceptability. Presentation was phrase-by-phrase, and so the resulting
responses were cued by display of the entire two-word continuation sen-
tence. If clefted constituents could be better maintained in focal attention
than non-clefted constituents, then faster processing is expected for
resolution to clefted referents.
(10) it-cleft
It was the ardent boyfriend who contemplated the engagement ring.
(a) anaphora to clefted referent
He stared. / # He sparkled.
(b) anaphora to non-clefted referent
It sparkled. / # It stared.
what-cleft
What the ardent boyfriend contemplated was the engagement ring.
(c) anaphora to clefted referent
It sparkled. / # It stared.
(d) anaphora to non-clefted referent
He stared. / # He sparkled.
Anaphora to the clefted referent did result in higher asymptotic accuracy
but it was not associated with faster processing dynamics. The higher
asymptotic accuracy does support the idea that clefted constituents can
be cognitively more salient or have a more distinctive memory represen-
tation; or at least it confirms the intuition that the minitexts (10a,c) are
more coherent. However, these data suggest that being the Focus constit-
uent may not in fact induce maintenance in focal attention.
220 M A T T H E W W . W A G E R S A N D B R I A N M C E L R E E
12.3 Retrieving information outside the focus of attention
Thus far we have spoken mostly generally of retrieval, as a cover term for
the means by which passive representations can be restored to focal
attention. But what exactly is the nature of retrieval?
Access to information in long-term memory has generally been regarded
as direct, with representations being content-addressable (Clark and
Gronlund 1996). Direct access occurs when a cue or set of cues makes
contact with memory in a unitary process without recourse to a sequence
of searches through irrelevant memories (e.g., Clark and Gronlund 1996;
Dosher and McElree 2003; Kohonen 1984). To retrieve an encoding in a
content-addressable architecture, it is necessary to have some information
on hand that is contained in the encoding or that is associated with its
contents. This can be contrasted with a location-addressable memory in
which specific encodings are (arbitrarily) associated with a storage loca-
tion. To retrieve an encoding in a location-addressable memory, it is
necessary to have the location or address of the encoding. Short-term or
working memory has often been argued to be more like the latter – with
retrieval from short-term memory either involving a series of comparisons
to all currently active concepts (i.e. a search, e.g., Sternberg 1966, 1975;
Theios 1973; Treisman and Doctor 1987) – or access to a known location,
like the top of a pushdown stack or a designated buffer. However, more
recent investigations of memory retrieval in both short- and long-term
domains, reviewed in McElree (2006), have identified two different ways in
which information is retrieved. A relatively slow, serial search does appear
to be necessary for recovering temporal and spatial order information
(Gronlund et al. 1997, McElree 2001, 2006; McElree and Dosher 1993). In
contrast, accessing information about the item itself appears to be direct,
with the representations themselves being fully content-addressable
(McElree and Dosher 1989, 1993; McElree 1996; 1998; 2006; Oberauer
2002, 2006; Öztekin and McElree 2007). Content-addressability can be
implemented in models with rather diverse storage architectures, includ-
ing those with highly localized representations and those with highly
distributed representations (Clark and Gronlund 1996).
In the memory model we have been elaborating, there is no mechanistic
distinction between access to encodings in long-term memory and access
to encodings outside of focal attention. The null hypothesis is thus that
non-focal information can be restored to the focus of attention via direct,
content-addressable access (without precluding the possibility that
searches can be deployed). In language processing we might expect a priori
to find examples of both direct access and serial search and that certain
factors bias the comprehender toward using one mechanism or the other.
What could those factors be?
On the one hand, direct access to content-addressable encodings is
the cheap and fast alternative, because it does not depend directly on
Working memory and language processing 221
how many encodings reside in memory. Moreover, content-addressable
retrieval only activates representations that are associated with the
retrieval cues, thus avoiding activation of the many other encodings in
memory which are irrelevant to a given process. The success of content-
addressable retrieval depends on the quality and discriminability of the
information used as retrieval cues. As an example, consider subject–verb
attachment in which the verb initiates the retrieval of the subject. If the
comprehension system used as its only cue something like “Category is
DP” then multiple conflicting phrases would be activated and potentially
the wrong phrase selected. The situation improves if a combination of cues
can be found which targets just the subject; for example (“Category is
DP” & “Case is nominative” & “Clause is the same as the current clause”).
As we review in Section 12.4, a major cause of forgetting – similarity-based
interference – stems from the use of cues that contact too many represen-
tations. An analogy can be drawn to using an Internet search engine.
Suppose you are looking for pictures of US President Barack Obama. The
rate of finding relevant pictures will increase dramatically if the search
term “obama” is used compared to the broader term “president.” Given the
observation that linguistic representations contain constituents at least
abstractly similar both to other constituents in the same expression and to
constituents in recently encountered expressions, it is an important ques-
tion whether an adequate theory of retrieval cues can be formulated.
A particular challenge that content-addressability faces has to do with
relational predicates like closest-to-me or c-commands-me, because the
extension of those predicates changes depending on the element that cues
the retrieval. The c-commanders of one category might be totally distinct
from the c-commanders of another category. It is not impossible to devise
an encoding scheme to capture this fact – for example, by generating a
unique ID with which all heads in a command domain would be marked.
Retrievals could be restricted to a head’s c-commanders by incorporating
this ID into the cue set. However it is a natural advantage of performing a
search that the constituents can be searched in a particular order, and that
order can used to satisfy relational predicates (see Wagers 2008, for a
longer discussion). Moreover because searches can proceed through the
encodings in a syntactic representation in a particular order, notions of
distance can be easily captured as well – since the search can stop at the
first element to satisfy a description.5
The disadvantage of searches is the
time they require (perhaps several hundreds of milliseconds for discrim-
inating the relative order of two displaced phrases; see McElree, Foraker,
and Dyer 2003).
Pressure to maintain rapid, fluent comprehension seems to favor direct
access. The pressure to construct grammatically accurate dependencies
seems to favor searches – at least where heuristics are not reliable enough.
On balance, the available evidence suggests that content-addressable
access is probably the norm, but that searches can be deployed in specific
222 M A T T H E W W . W A G E R S A N D B R I A N M C E L R E E
contexts. The available evidence comes from two domains: resolution of
A-bar dependencies and identification of VP ellipsis antecedents.
Consider once again the example of A-bar dependency formation from
the Introduction, with example (1) repeated here:
(11) The caterers inquired which appetizers Billy would prefer to serve
at the party.
Assume for the moment two hypotheses about the state of the compre-
hension system as it begins to analyze the underlined VP: (1) the VP is
believed to contain a gap; but (2) no information is maintained in focal
attention about the contents of the displaced wh-phrase. How would the
comprehender restore the information in the wh-phrase in order to com-
pose the VP? McElree, Foraker, and Dyer (2003; MFD henceforth) sought to
establish whether comprehenders deployed a search to recover the filler or
retrieved it in a content-addressable fashion. They constructed stimuli that
crossed two factors: the thematic goodness-of-fit between the critical verb
and its displaced theme; and the number of clauses between filler and gap:
(12) It was the scandal that . . .
(a) Same Clause: the celebrity relished/ *panicked.
(b) +1 Clause: the model believed that the celebrity
relished/*panicked.
(c) +2 Clauses: the model believed that the journalist reported
that the celebrity relished/*panicked
Participants judged the acceptability of these sentences in the SAT para-
digm. MFD predicted that, if comprehenders were using a search, the rate
parameter of the resulting SAT curves would vary with the distance manipu-
lation. Based on work in the list memory literature, it is known that
retrieval times vary directly with set-size under a variety of search algo-
rithms (McElree and Dosher, 1989). If, by contrast, the filler were retrieved
in a content-addressable fashion, the rate parameter should be constant
across the length manipulation. The results favored content-addressable
access: the best-fitting model of the data assigned only one rate parameter
for all three length conditions: 412 ms−1
. Asymptotic accuracy smoothly
declined with length, however – suggesting that the longer the depend-
ency, the less likely it was to be successfully completed. This latter finding
is consistent with a large body of data (King and Just 1991; Gibson 1998,
2000; Phillips, Kazanina, and Abada 2005).
The shared rate parameter for the three length conditions is inconsistent
with the set-size effect predicted by a search. MFD argue that it is most
consistent with a content-addressable access procedure, in which the filler
representation is contacted by retrieval cues that uniquely target it. There
are some related explanations of the data consistent with the shared rate:
one is that the filler is maintained in a distinguished representational state,
Working memory and language processing 223
like a stack or the hold buffer postulated by Wanner and Maratsos (1978). In
terms of the memory model articulated in this chapter, this amounts to
saying that the contents of the filler are maintained in the focus of attention.
Theoretically, given the strong capacity limits on the focus of attention, this
possibility seems unlikely. Empirically, cross-modal lexical priming tasks
(Swinney et al. 1988) and probe recognition studies (McElree 2000) have
found that a filler is only in an active state immediately after its introduction
and following retrieval at the gap site.
Another possibility is that the distance manipulation was in fact linguis-
tically inert. There is considerable evidence that movement is successive
cyclic (Chomsky 1973), with long-distance dependencies being decom-
posed into a series of local dependencies. It is possible the parser respects
successive cyclicity (Frazier and Clifton 1989; Gibson and Warren 2002), in
which case the parser may be re-encoding or re-tokening a representation
of the filler at successive clause edge positions. If lexical features of the
filler were recoverable from an encoding of the clause-local representa-
tion, then all three length conditions might show the same rate constant
whether a search were deployed or a content-addressable retrieval. Further
research may be needed to disentangle these alternatives. If an implemen-
tation of successive cyclicity includes repeated reactivation, the question
arises whether the decline in asymptotic accuracy can be adequately
accounted for, however. This cannot be answered on the basis of general
considerations, but must be the subject of an experiment or computa-
tional modeling (e.g., Vasishth and Lewis 2005).
Martin and McElree (2008, 2009) have considered another phenomenon
that involves retrieval: VP ellipsis and how the parser identifies an appro-
priate antecedent once an ellipsis site is detected. In the representative
study reported below (Martin and McElree 2008, Experiment 1), the
authors contrasted ellipsis resolution in short sentences to resolution in
more complex sentences in which the ellipsis site was hierarchically
further from its antecedent:
(13) (a) Near The editor admired the author’s writing but the critics/
*binding did not.
(b) Far The editor admired the author’s writing, but everyone at
the publishing house was shocked to hear that the critics/
*binding did not.
The predictions for this experiment are identical to MFD: if the VP ante-
cedent is identified via a search, then a set-size effect should emerge. In
other words, resolution should be slower in (13b) compared to (13a).
Content addressability predicts identical resolution rates. Drawing upon
convergent evidence from SAT studies and eye-tracking studies, the
authors find no evidence that ellipsis sites that are further from their
antecedent trigger slower antecedent resolutions. Instead there was only
a decrement to asymptotic accuracy: ellipsis resolution becomes less likely
224 M A T T H E W W . W A G E R S A N D B R I A N M C E L R E E
to succeed in longer or more complex sentences. As we’ll argue in
Section 12.4, the adverse effect complexity has on retrieval can be
explained as stemming from retrieval interference: that is, similar encod-
ings competing for retrieval.
The empirical landscape presented suggests that retrieval speed is inde-
pendent of the number of constituents internal to the sentence. No manip-
ulation on either hierarchical or linear distance has been found to affect
retrieval dynamics in either the resolution of A-bar dependencies or VP
ellipsis. Of course, while A-bar dependencies and VP ellipsis are important
syntactic constructions, we should remain duly skeptical until the empiri-
cal landscape is broadened. As we’ve suggested for A-bar dependencies, the
possibility of successive cyclicity effects potentially blunts a distinction
between search and content-addressable retrieval. However it must be
added that how successive cyclicity might proceed during parsing is not
well specified (see Richards, 1999, for a suggestion). As well, VP ellipsis of
the type tested is relatively weakly hierarchically constrained – so one
might expect that content addressable retrieval would be the most adap-
tive mechanism. Recently, Dillon et al. (2010) have reported a locality effect
in antecedent retrieval triggered by the Mandarin reflexive element ziji, a
finding which could indicate that the parser deploys a search for certain
kinds of antecedents.
However the observation that, under several conditions, retrieval
dynamics do not vary with the size or complexity of a linguistic stimulus
should not be understated. The number of primitive elements that com-
pose a typical syntactic description is substantial. Thus, effective naviga-
tion strategies for syntactic representations must be an important
contributor to the ultimate explanation for how language processing is
as fast, robust, and generally grammatically accurate as it is (Phillips,
Wagers, and Lau 2012).
12.4 Interference
In Sections 12.2 and 12.3, we have argued that two important general
properties of working memory can be observed in language processing.
The first property is that very little information is actively maintained at
any time. There is limited information, in the so-called focus of attention,
which may be currently involved in a computation. Information outside
the focus of attention must be retrieved. The second property is that, in
many cases, the retrieval mechanism appears to be content-addressable
and not dependent on the number or size of encodings that span the
representation. In this last section, we will consider what factors affect
the success of retrieval. In the unitary model of memory we advocate, a
major determinant of success is cue diagnosticity: the precision with
which information used during retrieval pinpoints encodings in memory.
Working memory and language processing 225
If the combination of retrieval cues used at retrieval is sufficiently distinct,
then retrieval success will be high. If retrieval cues are associated with
multiple encodings in memory, then those encodings are said to interfere
(Anderson and Neely 1996). This is the trade-off for fast access times
associated with content-addressable memory: irrelevant encodings that
are similar to the desired encodings can negatively impact processing.
In their comprehensive article on interference as the cause of forget-
ting, Anderson and Neely (1996) provide a very practical example of
retrieval interference from day-to-day life: forgetting where you have
parked your car. Suppose you take a trip to a shopping mall, from
which you emerge several hours later only to face near befuddlement
as you attempt to locate your vehicle. This experience is common to
many of us – why does it happen? Anderson and Neely (1996) propose
the following understanding. The memory of where you have parked
your car is encoded conjointly with a number of other potentially salient
features of the parking event: details about your car, the goals of your
shopping trip, time, weather, and other incidental observations. In order
to recall where you’ve parked your car later in the day, you must provide
cues for retrieval. Some of these cues could uniquely identify the encod-
ing of your car’s location in memory – for example, the fact that you
parked next to a rare vintage car, or you saw an opossum in the bushes
nearby. Other cues will be associated with many other similar shopping
trips – you’ve been to this mall many times before, often at similar times,
for similar reasons. If you happen to also recall the unique details about
the parking event before you attempt to recall the location of your car,
then you will likely effectively retrieve the location. If you happen to use
features that are typical of a parking event to cue retrieval, then you will
likely fail to recall the correct location of your car, or perhaps any
location. In short, it is easy to forget where you parked because any
specific instance of parking is very similar to any other instance of
parking that casual recollection will often fail.
It is interesting to note that the basic idea that interference is the cause
of forgetting has been around for quite some time (McGeoch 1936, 1942)
yet it is still believed to be its most potent source. Another potential source
of forgetting is time-based decay. The inability of representations to be
integrated into an on-going computation, according to this view, is that an
inherent quality of the representation, its activation, has decayed over
time (Baddeley 1986; Page and Norris 2000). Though it has been difficult
to entirely exorcize a role for time-based decay in forgetting, much recent
research indicates that interference provides nearly all of the explanatory
power needed (Dosher and Ma 1998; Jonides et al. 2008; Oberauer and
Lewandowsky 2008). This suggests that if we want to understand the role
working memory plays in the interpretation of complex representations –
such as linguistic representation – we need to pay closest attention to the
similarity structure of that representation.
226 M A T T H E W W . W A G E R S A N D B R I A N M C E L R E E
The question therefore arises whether we observe interference in natu-
ral language processing. Perhaps a plausible case which reflects similarity-
based interference are certain center-embedded clauses (Yngve 1960;
Miller and Chomsky 1963). It is worth noting that it is not center embed-
ding per se, but center self-embedding, that leads to the greatest difficulty
(Miller and Isard 1964; Lewis 1996; cf. de Roeck et al. 1982). This is con-
genial to the idea that language processing is sensitive to similarity when it
must construct syntactic relations via retrieval (see Lewis and Vasishth,
2005). We will set center self-embedding aside, however, precisely because
such sentences are so pathological; that is, they are often nearly impos-
sible to interpret or, in the worse cases, to even recognize as communica-
tive linguistic expressions. Moreover, after half a century of research the
exact generalizations remain surprisingly cloudy.
Fortunately there are a number of recent studies which document
retrieval interference in sentences that are not overall impossible to com-
prehend; and which involve a variety of common syntactic relations,
including agreement, subject–verb attachment, and unbounded move-
ment dependencies (Gordon, Hendrick, and Johnson 2001; Wagers, Lau,
and Phillips 2009; van Dyke and Lewis 2003; van Dyke and McElree 2006).
As an example of similarity-based interference and its relevance to lan-
guage processing, consider one of the experimental sentences from van
Dyke & Lewis (2003), in (14). In this sentence, the subject of the embedded
clause, the student, should be paired with the predicate, was standing.
(14) The secretary forgot that . . .
the student who thought that the exam was important
was standing in the hallway.
However the presence of a full lexical subject (the exam) in the intervening
relative clause can impact the dependency formation process. Reading times
on the critical predicate, was standing, increase and comprehension accuracy
decreases, compared either to a condition with no intervening relative
clause or one in which the intervening relative clause contains a DP in object
position (van Dyke and Lewis 2003; van Dyke 2007). Wagers (2008) con-
trasted cases in which the [Spec,TP] position of the intervening RC was
occupied by a lexical DP (15a) to those in which there-insertion had taken
place (15b). Evidence for interference was present in (15a), but not in (15b).
(15) The politician was displeased that the report [. . . X . . .] was covered
on the evening news
(a) that support was widespread for her opponent.
(b) that there was widespread support for her opponent.
Based on these results, it seems that occupying a similar position can lead
to interference in the dependency completion process.
Van Dyke and McElree (2006) considered a more direct manipulation of
retrieval interference. They examined the processing of cleft constructions
Working memory and language processing 227
under a memory load manipulation. In half of the experimental condi-
tions, participants were presented with a list of three nouns at the start of
the trial, which would have to be recalled after the sentence comprehen-
sion task. For example, participants would see the following list:
(16) TABLE – SINK – TRUCK
Then they would read (17) and answer a comprehension question.
(17) It was the boat that the guy who lived by the sea sailed / fixed in two
sunny days.
Two critical verbs were possible in the sentence (underlined). For half of
the conditions, exemplified by the verb sailed, the critical verb was not a
good fit for the nouns on the memory recall list. For the other half,
exemplified by the verb fixed, the critical verb and memory load items
were good fits for one another. They found that reading times for the two
verb types were identical when there was no memory list. However, when
there was a memory list, reading times were higher on a compatible verb
like fixed than on an incompatible verb like sail. van Dyke and McElree
(2006) argued that, (a) the displaced wh-phrase had to be retrieved; and (b)
that the specific semantic properties of the verb would be used to form
cues for retrieval. Though alternative interpretations of the data are pos-
sible,6
if retrieval interference is to blame in van Dyke and McElree’s
experiment, it is somewhat surprising that a bare list of lexemes can
intrude upon sentence comprehension. It may be important that there
were three of them, such that even a small amount of interference from
each word would gang up to lead to a measurable behavioral effect.
However Gordon, Hendrick, and Johnson (2001, 2002, 2004) have reported
similar interference effects for relative clauses.
Finally, both Wagers, Lau, and Phillips (2009) and Badecker and Lewis
(2007) have argued that retrieval interference could play a role in generating
agreement attraction illusions. Comprehenders often fail to notice when
singular subjects are paired with plurally marked verbs, just in case a plural
noun occurs in a relatively local syntactic context. The classic example,
which has been the subject of numerous production studies (Bock and
Miller 1991; Pearlmutter, Garnsey, and Bock 1999), is given in (18):
(18) The key to the cabinets were on the table.
Perhaps the most salient fact about agreement attraction is that it
essentially only occurs with plurally marked verbs (Eberhard 1997).
Cross-linguistically, the broader generalization seems to be that it is the
morphologically marked features on nouns (gender, number, or case)
which can intrude upon verb–argument dependencies (Bader, Meng, and
Bader 2000; Harrison et al. 2005; Badecker and Kuminiak 2007). Wagers,
Lau, and Phillips (2009) suggested that marked features (perhaps when
privatively specified) were potential sources of retrieval interference.
228 M A T T H E W W . W A G E R S A N D B R I A N M C E L R E E
The second salient fact about agreement attraction is that the attracting
noun can stand in a variety of relationships to the grammatical subject. The
preponderance of production studies had considered cases in which the
subject contained the attractor (see Eberhard, Cutting, and Bock 2005). This
led to a prominent account of attraction which derived attraction from an
over-application of the head-to-phrase feature percolation rule. However,
Wagers, Lau, and Phillips (2009) showed that the attractor could contain the
subject. Drawing on work by Kimball and Aissen (1971), they showed that
sentences like the following were often misperceived as grammatical:
(19) The runners who the driver see each morning always wave.
Because it derives from the content-addressable memory system, retrieval
interference is a natural candidate to explain a phenomenon which can be
insensitive to hierarchical relationships. However, recent work by Franck
et al. (2010) suggests that the attractor needs to be in some relatively local
syntactic domain. Their studies show that an attractor in a root clause has
no effect on agreement inside an embedded complement clause. Notice,
however, that a restriction that an agreeing head must occur in a specified
domain (e.g., within the current CP) is not the same as a restriction that an
agreeing head must occur in a relative position with respect to the agree-
ment target (e.g., be a c-commander).
There is one case of dependency formation which seems curiously
immune to retrieval interference: identifying the antecedent of a reflexive
anaphora. There have been a number of studies which test whether the
parser considers grammatically inappropriate antecedents upon encounter-
ing a reflexive. Most studies conclude it does not (Nicol and Swinney 1989;
Sturt 2003; Xiang, Dillon, and Phillips 2009; Dillon et al., submitted, but cf.
Badecker and Straub 2002). Dillon et al. (in prep) compared agreement
attraction and reflexive binding in the same eye-tracking study with the
same syntactic structures; they found clear evidence of agreement attrac-
tion but not evidence in early measures that inappropriate antecedents
interfere. Note that prior work by Dillon and colleagues (2010) showed
that processing reflexive ziji in Chinese was associated with a dynamics
profile in which local antecedents could bind ziji faster than non-local
antecedents. Thus processing reflexive anaphora seems to bear the hall-
marks of a strongly syntactically guided antecedent identification process.
In contrast many other cases we have considered are ones in which syntactic
constraints typically prevail but nonetheless allow for constituents favored
by other constraints to intervene early in the comprehension process.7
12.5 Conclusions
This chapter summarizes a series of relatively recent experimental results
on the nature of memory used in language processing. We have argued
Working memory and language processing 229
that the memory mechanisms used in natural language processing are
fundamentally similar in character to memory in other domains. For
even relatively local linguistic domains, only a portion of the information
represented in that domain is concurrently accessible (Section 12.2) – the
focal attention effect. Thus it is frequently necessary to restore informa-
tion to a state of accessibility. Content-addressable retrieval appears to
prevail as the mechanism for doing so (Section 12.3). As a consequence,
similarity-based interference is a significant determinant of processing
complexity (Section 12.4). The amount and complexity of information
encoded in memory primarily affects retrieval success, and not retrieval
times.
There are two senses in which these findings shed light on our under-
standing of grammatical knowledge. Firstly, there is the relatively direct
and important empirical contribution a theory of memory makes to our
understanding of linguistic performance: by embedding theories of lan-
guage comprehension (or production) in a well-justified theory of human
memory, we obtain more precise models of real-time linguistic events.
Likewise, confronting accounts of human memory with well-justified
descriptions of linguistic structure provides a means of clarifying those
theories as well. Secondly, there are the ways in which the primitives of
linguistic theory – the kinds of representations used, the functions that
relate those representations – might be adapted to the kind of memory
system into which they are embedded.
Figure 12.4 highlights two conceptions of how a phrase structure could
be chunked into multiple encodings: i.e. two “focal strategies.” The
capacity-limited focus of attention suggests that chunking occurs, and
that it occurs below the clausal level. Panel (a) shows one natural way of
accomplishing such chunking: by exhaustively parsing the constituent
structure into non-overlapping substructures. In this case, the scope of
focal attention is assumed to be roughly X-bar-sized. Exhaustive, non-
overlapping chunking of this sort is explicitly assumed in some accounts
(e.g., the ACT-R model, Lewis and Vasishth 2005; Lewis, van Dyke, and
Vasishth 2006) and more implicitly in others (e.g., the Sausage Machine
theory, Frazier and Fodor 1978). We call this focal strategy a “local” focus of
attention, because it only concurrently activates a head and its neighbors.
Panel (b) illustrates a different focal strategy, one which concurrently
activates a more global set of syntactic features.
In the local strategy, dependencies that cannot be satisfied strictly
locally must be constructed via a retrieval mechanism. Two principal
concerns then arise. Firstly, in the absence of any information about the
non-local dependent, retrieval cues are likely to be grammatically general.
For example, they may specify the non-local dependents’ required cate-
gory and other relevant formal features, like its phi-feature composition.
Such general cues constitute precisely the kind of retrieval structure
which engenders interference.
230 M A T T H E W W . W A G E R S A N D B R I A N M C E L R E E
Secondly, the content-addressable retrieval system can only clumsily
handle relational cues like c-commands or is-in-the-same-clause, through
means of category-tagging strategies and activation-order heuristics (see
note 5). On the one hand, the increased reliance on retrieval means that
dependency completion will sometimes be swamped by irrelevant infor-
mation. On the other hand, because representations occupy focal atten-
tion fully with the local context, they can do so in much greater detail. In
other words, though the representations are restricted to a small domain,
they are fine-grained.
In contrast, the global focus of attention is forced to underspecify. There
is limited capacity to bind features into structured representation, and so
we conjecture those features are relatively sparse. Firstly, this seems com-
patible with available evidence on depth of processing in real-time com-
prehension (Sanford 2002). Secondly, by maintaining a more global
context, it is possible to form what one might think of as “first-draft” of
non-local dependencies without retrieval. For example, it may be possible
to link a verb and its filler without retrieving the specific contents of the
filler, but simply by pointing to the small, underspecified representation
in focal attention. Interpretation will likely require more details from the
lexical representation of the filler and these can be supplied by retrieval.
Crucially, the retrieval structure can be built around any item-specific
features that may persist in the focus of attention and which are used in
the first-draft representation (cf. Ericsson and Kintsch 1995; Nairne 2002).
Figure 12.4 Two different conceptions of the capacity of focal attention in language
processing.
Working memory and language processing 231
Such retrieval structures are likely to have greater precision than those
constructed from the general grammatical features which a parsing rule or
licensing head might propose.
Finally, considering whether the focus of attention maintains more local
or more global contexts leads to a more subtle question. When lexical
information must be restored to the focus of attention, it is possible that
the information comes from previously bound tokens of a lexeme; but it is
also possible that it comes (again) from the lexicon. Thus future progress is
likely to be made by elucidating the relationship between the retrieval of
partial syntactic descriptions during on line comprehension and lexical
access itself. Richards’s (1999) proposal for left-to-right tree building antici-
pates this concern, and leads him to support a Move-over-Merge prefer-
ence: it is better to manipulate light and nimble syntactic representations
in the workspace, than to draw from the lexicon. Moreover, there is some
tantalizing evidence that it is lexical representations, not syntactic repre-
sentations, that engender interference from outside the focus of attention.
In particular, it has been observed in several languages that only syncretic,
case-ambiguous DPs are liable to cause agreement attraction (see Badecker
and Kuminiak 2007, for discussion). This observation is surprising if the
interference stemmed from syntactic representation per se, on the
assumption that the syntactic representation is disambiguated for case.
The research described in this chapter has only scratched the surface
of the “memory–syntax” interface. But it seems fair to say the greatest
progress has been made when both theory and experiment are mutually
well informed of both linguistic theory and the theory of memory. Given
their common biological foundations, this should come as no surprise.
232 M A T T H E W W . W A G E R S A N D B R I A N M C E L R E E
13
Computational primitives
in phonology and their
neural correlates
Philip J. Monahan, Ellen F. Lau, and William J. Idsardi
13.1 Introduction
Understanding the representational and algorithmic systems that under-
lie language has been the primary goal for linguists (e.g., Chomsky
1959a). As it stands, however, the neural bases of linguistic systems
remain woefully underspecified. Moving toward an understanding of
how such systems are encoded in the brain demands a linking between
the basic ontological primitives that underlie linguistic systems on the
one hand with neurophysiology on the other (Poeppel and Embick 2005).
The goal of the current chapter is to identify what we believe to be the
core computational primitives that underlie phonological knowledge
and present evidence from the domain of cognitive neuroscience that
attempts to investigate the nature of the neural correlates of these
primitives.
We take the goal of biolinguistics to be to understand the biological
bases of human language with a strong emphasis on its evolutionary
origins (Jenkins 2000). In practice, the focus has been placed on investigat-
ing the biological underpinnings of syntactic knowledge, e.g., the evolu-
tionary origins of the syntactic operation MERGE (Hauser, Chomsky, and
Fitch 2002). Although this work has been enlightening, it is perhaps
surprising that relatively less effort has been paid to the biolinguistic
foundations of phonological systems (Samuels 2011) and their interface
with speech perception and production. This is surprising because we
believe that there are a number of reasons why biolinguistic inquiry into
this domain should be more tractable. First, fewer levels of abstraction
separate the fundamental representations of phonology from the basic
sensory input representations. This means that knowledge about how
basic auditory information is represented and processed in both humans
and animals is more likely to provide important insights into how phono-
logical information could be represented and processed. For this type of
investigation, we can use animal models that allow a fuller range of
invasive measures such as recording from individual neurons. As we will
show, there is also evidence that representations that are closer to the
sensory input are more likely to be neurally implemented with a spatial-
mapping coding scheme that is relatively easy to detect with current
neuroimaging measures (see below). Second, there already exists an exten-
sive literature to build on from cognitive psychology that has investigated
the extent to which “speech is special” (Liberman 1996). The Motor Theory
of speech perception is essentially a biolinguistic perspective: whether or
not humans have specific biological adaptations that support the process-
ing of auditory linguistic input or whether speech is processed and repre-
sented with purely domain-general machinery (Holt and Lotto 2008).
Third, on most linguistic theories, phonological representations are the
basic unit that connects sensory input and motor output. Therefore, by
investigating the biological basis of phonological knowledge, we can bene-
fit from existing evidence from other cognitive domains on the biological
basis for sensory-motor translation, such as is needed for visually guided
teaching.
Technological advances in the last 30 years have led to exceptionally
powerful recording devices, allowing us to not only ask questions about
when or where in the brain particular cognitive processes occur but, in
theory, to provide answers with millisecond temporal resolution and/or
millimeter spatial resolution (see Hämäläinen 1992; Luck 2005; Cabeza
and Kingstone 2006 for reviews of some current techniques). Previously,
much of what we knew about the brain with respect to language was
inferred from neurological impairments, e.g., aphasias. The link between
brain region and linguistic process required behavioral observation/test-
ing and an often much later postmortem assessment of the lesions (Broca
1861; Wernicke 1874; see Geschwind 1970 for a review). The advent of
hemodynamic and electrophysiological measures allows us to observe
cortical and sub-cortical neural activity as it occurs in healthy adults and
children. Yet, despite the popularity of these technologies in psycholin-
guistics and the cognitive neurosciences, our understanding of how the
brain encodes speech sounds, words and higher-order linguistic represen-
tations has so far remained limited.
In this chapter, our aim is not to outline a complete program for a
biolinguistic investigation of phonology, but rather to provide a sum-
mary of the existing “tools” for such investigation: the representational
primitives from which we believe it will be the easiest to begin, a repre-
sentative selection of previous cognitive neuroimaging findings that may
serve as a guide to promising entry points for further research, and in an
appendix, the neuroimaging measures currently available. Although the
primary concern of biolinguists may be to determine how phonological
systems and grammars are encoded in cortical structures, we believe that
phonological representations are likely to depend on how they are
234 P H I L I P J . M O N A H A N , E L L E N F . L A U , A N D W I L L I A M J . I D S A R D I
deployed during speech perception and production, and thus that a
better understanding of these processes is also required. Issues that
must be addressed as we move forward in this line of research therefore
include understanding what mechanisms the brain uses to parse acoustic
input into words made up of abstract phonological pieces (e.g., Hickok
and Poeppel 2007; Poeppel, Idsardi, and van Wassenhove 2008) and on
the output side, what mechanisms are used by the brain to arrive at a set
of articulation instructions governed by phonological rules of the lan-
guage from a conceptualized message (see Levelt 1989; Levelt, Roelofs,
and Meyer 1999 for psycholinguistic models). Our own research is pri-
marily concerned with perception, and consequently, we will have noth-
ing substantial to report with respect to the question of the neural bases
of speech-motor planning.
13.2 Background
Phonological grammars provide a framework for how speech sounds are
represented and the nature of the various combinatorial operations they
undergo in mapping between lexical representations and their surface-forms
(Chomsky and Halle 1968; Prince and Smolensky 2004; see Kenstowicz,
1994 for textbook discussion). These grammars have explicitly concerned
themselves with the competence of an ideal speaker/hearer (Chomsky 1965;
cf. Bybee 2001) and are generally unconcerned with psychological or
neurobiological implications or what has been termed a speaker’s perform-
ance. Consequently, phonologists are interested in developing theories of
the knowledge of phonological primitives and rules that operate over them
within the language. However, we may want to go beyond a theory of the
knowledge that people possess to understand how that knowledge is
actually instantiated in the brain. The question may be as simple as: in
what brain region are phonological representations stored? Or, more
complex, how do networks of neurons represent phonological categories?
Because phonology is intimately tied to lexical representation, we might
ask how words are represented neurally. And from here, we may go on to
ask questions of evolutionary biology, e.g., why might the brain have
gravitated to this particular way of representing phonology and the lex-
icon? Unfortunately, formal approaches to phonological grammars and
developments in the cognitive neuroscience of language and audition tend
to proceed in parallel, and only rarely do advances in one discipline frame
discussion in the other. Moreover, the lack of linking hypotheses between
representational and procedural primitives in phonology and those in the
neurosciences potentially impedes progress in understanding how phono-
logical grammars are neurally encoded or the range of plausible phono-
logical computations that can be carried out in the nervous system
(Poeppel and Embick 2005).
Computational primitives in phonology 235
We can infer the nature of the knowledge of phonology that people
possess from many sources of evidence: acceptability judgments, histor-
ical sources, production data, and reaction times on comprehension or
production tasks. These measures are also, of course, indirect measure-
ments of neural representations. One avenue of cognitive neuroscience
research on phonology is devoted to identifying correlated evidence from
slightly more direct measurements of brain activity, such as ERP, MEG, or
fMRI (discussed in more detail in the appendix). The data gained from
these more sophisticated measures are of a similar ilk to behavioral meas-
urements in that they are aggregated measures whose response properties
cannot be directly tied to biological events. Brain measures can have
advantages over behavioral measures. For example, it is often not neces-
sary to require an overt response on the part of the participants, and as
such, the notion of the “task,” in principle, can be foregone with these
measures. We provide a brief review of the tools that are currently used
and some of their strengths and weaknesses in the appendix.
13.3 Representational primitives
Traditionally, generative phonology has asked two questions: (1) what
representations subserve phonology (e.g., features, segments, syllables)
and (2) what procedures map between surface forms and memory repre-
sentations. The representational units that constitute part of the knowledge
or competence of sound systems have been thought to be discrete and
invariant in their most abstract form. The exact form of these representa-
tions, however, has been long debated within the field – though, we
believe – there is a consensus that sub-segmental units, such as distinctive
features, appear to be the appropriate level of description for the purpose
of biolinguistic investigation. The specific features themselves continue to
be revised, and while these revisions will bring important implications for
how we investigate the biological instantiation of phonological knowledge
and representation, the general point remains that we believe that electro-
physiological measures will reveal a featural organization for phonology.
This does not preclude investigating other aspects of phonological repre-
sentations, e.g., syllables.
A hallmark proposal of phonological inquiry has been that the relevant
representational primitives are not single segments, e.g., phonemes, but
rather smaller units of which segments are composed (Jakobson, Fant,
and Halle 1952). Initially, segments were thought to be bundles of diva-
lent distinctive features, and in the mapping from lexical representation
to surface forms, phonological rules would adjust their valence
(Chomsky and Halle 1968). Evidence in support of distinctive features
arises from extensive cross-linguistic observations that speech sounds
pattern phonologically in natural classes. That is, phonological rules
236 P H I L I P J . M O N A H A N , E L L E N F . L A U , A N D W I L L I A M J . I D S A R D I
rarely target individual speech sounds, but rather entire natural classes
that share some common characteristic or feature, e.g., high-vowels
([+vocalic], [+high]) or voiced consonants ([+consonantal], [+voiced]). For
example, the feature specifications [+syllabic, –consonant] designated all
vowels in a language and all vowels shared this particular valuation
(Halle, 1972) without an internal organization to the features. These
features are arranged into a hierarchical organization (Clements and
Hume 1995; McCarthy 1988)
For the purposes of perception, distinctive features are divided into two
broad classes: articulator-free (e.g., [vowel], [consonant], [continuant]) and
articulator-bound (e.g., [spread glottis], [high], [lateral]). Articulator-free
features provide a “first-pass” segmentation of incoming speech by identi-
fying “landmarks” in the signal for the perceptual system (Stevens 2002).
In Stevens’s “Landmarks” model of speech perception and spoken word
recognition, acoustic analysis around landmarks permits hypothesis gen-
eration for what the articulators were doing during production, i.e. recov-
ery of the articulator-bound features. This latter class of articulator-bound
features provides instructions to the articulators during production. For
example, the specification of the feature [± nasal] provides instructions as
to whether or not the velum, the soft tissue located at the roof of the
mouth, should be elevated to prevent air passage through the nasal cavity,
while [± labial] provides instructions to the lips as to whether or not a
constriction should be formed. During natural articulation, these features
must be orchestrated in time in a gestural score to produce a meaningful
speech signal (Browman and Goldstein 1989).
Despite major differences in phonological theories over the past 50
years, phonologists continue to express generalizations in terms of dis-
tinctive features. In generative phonology, phonemes are nothing more
than constellations of simultaneous distinctive features. Other theories
(Mielke 2008), however, give segments a more primitive status, while still
retaining features within the system. Much of the electrophysiological
work, thus far, fails to distinguish between segmental and featural inter-
pretations of the experiments. Well-designed experiments to tease apart
the interpretations should be a priority as we move forward.
13.4 Where to look for phonological primitives
Now with over a century of work with aphasia and more recently, neuro-
imaging, we have gained significant insights into the most basic neural
implementation question: where the neurons that code the stored pho-
netic and phonological primitives are located. Today, there is a fairly broad
consensus that these neurons are located in the superior temporal gyrus
(STG) bilaterally, a region neighboring primary auditory cortex (Binder
2000; see Hickok and Poeppel 2004 for a review).
Computational primitives in phonology 237
Early neuroimaging studies using PET and fMRI universally showed
more activity in STG (bilaterally) for listening to speech compared to
rest (e.g., Petersen et al. 1988; Mazoyer et al. 1993; see Binder, 2000 for
review). However, STG is a very large region that is likely to be involved in
a huge number of different computations. The use of the basic speech–
rest contrast did not allow researchers to distinguish between areas
involved in non-specific auditory processing from areas involved in
speech processing, or between areas involved in phonetic/phonological
processing from areas involved in semantic and syntactic analysis.
Subsequent imaging studies have contrasted speech with a variety of
sophisticated conditions designed to isolate different aspects of auditory
processing. For example, reversed speech is usually largely uninterpret-
able, but it maintains the same level of spectrotemporal complexity as
speech, in that all the transitions are present but reversed. By comparing
transformed conditions like reversed speech to auditory stimuli with less
complexity (strings of tones) or less structure (noise), researchers have
been able to show that bilateral regions of STG and the superior temporal
sulcus (STS) bordering it are preferentially active for spectrotemporally
complex stimuli like speech (Scott et al. 2000; Binder et al. 2000). Because
these regions show increased activity even for speech-like stimuli that is
semantically uninterpretable, it seems that they must be involved in a
pre-lexical stage of processing.
The neuroimaging results fit in with the results of a long line of aphasia
research showing that bilateral damage to STG results in a syndrome
known as phonological word deafness (Barrett 1910; Henschen 1918). In
this syndrome, early auditory processing is preserved – for example,
patients can discriminate between tones of different frequencies and can
recognize familiar non-speech sounds and music – but speech perception
is severely damaged. Patients report that speech sounds like “meaningless
noise” (Poeppel 2001) and frequently display phonemic paraphasias
(errors in production) as well (Buchman et al. 1986). This pattern of deficits
follows if STG supports both processing of speech and storage of the
underlying representations.
So far this evidence is consistent with phonetic/phonological primitives
being coded in STG/STS regions, but an alternative possibility is that these
regions are involved simply in non-linguistic analysis of complex auditory
signals. What evidence do we have that linguistic information is coded
here? First, there is an argument from null results; phonetic/phonological
representations presumably must be accessed in processing speech and
speech-like stimuli, yet no other region consistently shows increased
activity for speech and speech-like vs. non-speech stimuli. However,
there are many reasons that neuroimaging studies might fail to show
real brain activity – lack of power in neuroimaging studies is a constant
concern – so this is a weak argument at best. Two lines of evidence are
more compelling: work showing that STG is differentially active to
238 P H I L I P J . M O N A H A N , E L L E N F . L A U , A N D W I L L I A M J . I D S A R D I
phonological contrasts as opposed to auditory contrasts matched for com-
plexity, and work showing that this region is required for speech produc-
tion as well.
First, many studies show that regions of STG are differentially sensitive to
acoustic contrasts that are phonologically meaningful in the listener’s native
language. For example, a seminal fMRI study by Jacquemot et al. (2003) tested
French speakers and Japanese speakers on sets of stimuli that differed
acoustically along a dimension that was linguistically available in Japanese
only (vowel length), or in French only (simple versus complex consonant
strings). Behavioral evidence showed that French speakers had difficulty
distinguishing stimuli differing on vowel length (e.g. tokei versus tookei) and
Japanese speakers had difficulty distinguishing stimuli such as ebza versus
ebuza, presumably because they perceive an epenthetic vowel in the former
due to constraints on consonant form in Japanese. The fMRI data showed
that activity in STG was associated with phonologically meaningful distinc-
tions rather than acoustic differences; French speakers showed a significant
increase in STG when the syllable form changed, and Japanese speakers
showed a significant increase in STG when the vowel length changed.
Similarly, the mismatch negativity in MEG, a response shown to be sensitive
to phonological variables discussed in more detail below, consistently local-
izes to STG (Hickok and Poeppel 2004).
Second, there is significant evidence that STG is also accessed during
production (see Indefrey and Levelt 2004 for a review). Conduction apha-
sia, a disorder characterized by phonemic paraphasias and naming diffi-
culty, is associated with damage to left posterior STG (e.g., Damasio and
Damasio 1980); and as alluded to above, subtle production difficulties are
also often observed in pure word deafness. Neuroimaging studies have
shown that regions of left STG are consistently activated in speech pro-
duction tasks; this is the case even when production is covert (e.g. Hickok
et al. 2000). The fact that part of this region is involved in both perception
and production argues against an interpretation in which STG is only
involved in processing complex sounds.
Therefore, there is sufficient evidence at this point to conclude that
regions of STS/STG encode phonetic/phonological primitives, in addition
to implementing numerous other computations required for processing
complex spatiotemporal auditory signals. Although a larger discussion of
those computations is beyond the scope of this chapter, it is interesting to
note that left and right STG are sometimes thought to be specialized in
speech perception at different levels of temporal analysis: left STG for
phoneme-sized time-windows (20–40 ms) and right STG for syllable-sized
time-windows (200–300 ms) (Poeppel 2001, 2003).
Finally, we note that so far there is not good evidence that any particular
sub-region of STG is “speech-specific” in the sense that it only processes
speech and not other similar input. In fact, it is not clear that we should
expect to find such a sub-region, at least based on linguistic theory.
Computational primitives in phonology 239
The only language-specific circuits motivated by classic phonetic and
phonological theory are those needed to represent language-specific pho-
netic and phonological primitives in long-term memory. But these circuits
may be very simple and non-centralized, and thus may encompass only a
fraction of the machinery needed to process speech in real time. In the
next section, we turn to existing evidence about the sub-organization of
these long-term representations. While hemodynamic measures provide
us with information about where to look, their temporal response proper-
ties are poor, especially given the quickly changing temporal dynamics of
the speech signal. Electrophysiological data offer much better temporal
resolution, and are known to robustly respond to activity in STS/STG.
13.5 How to look for phonological primitives
Electrophysiology (EEG, MEG) has proven to be an exceptionally useful
tool for understanding the nature of auditory and speech representations.
The early electrophysiological evoked components commonly associated
with auditory and speech perception (N1/N1m/M100, N1-P2, MMN/MMNm/
MMF) are pre-attentive and do not require a task, providing researchers
with a task-independent probe into the early stages of processing. The
automaticity of these components, combined with excellent, millisecond
temporal resolution, makes the use of such methods extremely powerful
in understanding the nature of linguistic and auditory representations and
processes employed and entertained prior to contact with a lexical level of
representation. An enormous amount of work has been done on not only
understanding the response properties and the neurophysiological and
cognitive sources of the MMN (Näätänen 1992; Näätänen, Jacobsen, and
Winkler 2005; Näätänen et al. 2007), but also the nature of auditory
and linguistic representations as indexed by the MMN (Näätänen 2001). In
particular, MMN studies of speech perception have provided neurophysio-
logical evidence for the existence of representations at the level of abstract
phonology (e.g., phonemes, distinctive features) and shown sensitivity of
native language phonological inventories (Näätänen et al. 1997; Winkler
et al. 1999) and syllabic constraints (Dehaene-Lambertz, Dupoux, and Gout
2000).
The Mismatch Negativity (MMN; Mismatch Magnetic Field (MMF/
MMNm) in MEG) is an electrophysiological component observed when
there is a discriminable physical change within a series of auditorily presented
standards that can be grouped based on some physical or psychological
basis into a single category. In a typical MMN/MMF paradigm, participants
are presented with a series of standard tokens interrupted by a deviant,
which differs from the standard along some physical (or linguistic) dimen-
sion. The probability of hearing a deviant within a given experimental
block is usually approximately 15%. If the deviant is perceived as being
240 P H I L I P J . M O N A H A N , E L L E N F . L A U , A N D W I L L I A M J . I D S A R D I
perceptually distinct from the standards (the requisite physical difference
between the standard and deviant is typically commensurate with behav-
ioral discrimination thresholds for particular stimulus attributes
(Näätänen et al. 2007)), then a large, negative-going waveform (in EEG; a
larger magnetic field strength in MEG) in comparison with the electro-
physiological response to the standard is observed approximately 150–300
ms post-onset of the deviant stimulus. The magnitude of the MMN elicited
by the deviant is determined by subtracting the grand average waveform of
the electrophysiological response to the standard from the grand average
waveform of the electrophysiological response to the deviant (Näätänen
1992, 2001; Näätänen et al. 2007). Modulations of spectral properties of an
auditory stimulus, such as the frequency, intensity, and duration have all
been reported to reliably elicit an MMN/MMF (Gomes, Ritter, and Vaughan
1995; Sams et al. 1985; Winkler et al. 1990). Based on intracranial electrode
recordings from monkeys (Javitt et al. 1992; Javitt et al. 1994) and cats (Csépe,
Karmos, and Molnár 1987), and MEG and EEG source modeling in humans
(Hari et al. 1984; Alain, Cortese, and Picton 1998; Scherg, Vajsar, and Picton
1989; see Näätänen and Alho 1995 for a review), the neural generators of the
MMN/MMF component are located in the superior temporal plane
in primary (or immediately adjacent to primary) auditory cortex, roughly
3–10mm more anterior than the source of the N1m (M100; Näätänen et al.
2007). Moreover, its elicitation does not require attention on the part of the
participant or active control modules. Instead, it can be elicited, for exam-
ple, during sleep (Näätänen et al., 2007), and the magnitude and presence of
the response are generally unaffected by attentional or task demands
required of participants during the experimental procedure (Alho et al.
1998; Näätänen 1992; Ritter et al. 1992; Ritter and Ruchkin 1992). The
Mismatch Negativity electrophysiological component has also been
exploited extensively to probe the nature of speech representations and
the impact of native language phonology on the perception of speech (see
Näätänen 2001; Phillips 2001 for reviews). Research using the MMN in
speech perception has demonstrated that this component reflects much
higher levels of representation and processes than what can be inferred
from the physical/acoustic attributes of the signal alone.
13.5.1 Vowels
Näätänen et al. (1997) assessed the extent to which one’s native language
vowel inventory affects elicitation of the MMN, and more generally, the
early stages of perceptual processing of speech. They tested native speakers
of Finnish and Estonian, two closely related languages with nearly identical
vowel inventories. The primary difference between the two vowel invento-
ries is that Estonian contains the vowel /õ/, while Finnish does not. Näätänen
et al. (1997) synthesized vowel tokens corresponding to /e/, /ö/, /õ/, and /o/,
whose fundamental acoustic difference is the frequency of their second
Computational primitives in phonology 241
formant (F2). The semi-synthetic tokens were matched on their fundamen-
tal frequency (F0) and first (F1), third (F3), and fourth (F4) formants. In the
MMN paradigm, there were two primary comparisons between the groups:
(1) the response to the deviant synthetic vowel tokens (i.e. /ö/, /õ/, /o/) from
the prototype standard /e/ synthetic vowel token and (2) the response to
deviant sinusoids of the same frequencies of the prototype F2 values for the
vowels /ö/, /õ/, and /o/ from the F2 value of the standard /e/. Given the findings
from Tiitinen et al. (1994), who found monotonic relationships between
properties of the MMN and the distance of difference between the standard
and deviant tokens, Näätänen et al. (1997) expected a monotonic rise in the
magnitude of the MMN the further away the F2 value of the deviant was
from the F2 value of the standard. Therefore, /o/ should elicit the largest
MMN (because its F2 value is furthest from the standard’s F2 value), while /ö/
should elicit the smallest MMN compared with the electrophysiological
response to the standard /e/. The critical comparison is the response to the
deviant /õ/. An MMN magnitude mid-way between /ö/ and /o/ should be
elicited in the Estonians and not in the Finnish participants if the MMN is
reflecting phonetic/phonemic processing. They found a monotonic increase
across the three vowel tokens in the magnitude of the MMN for the Estonian
participants but not for the Finnish, while both groups showed a monotonic
rise to pure sinusoids whose frequencies matched the F2 formant frequen-
cies of the vowels, suggesting that this difference is not solely attributable to
the physical properties of the stimuli, but must also be a function of the
phonemic vowel inventories (and therefore, presumably, the distinctive
features) of the two groups of participants. Winkler and colleagues (1999)
followed up on these results comparing Finnish and Hungarian participants
with contrasts that were within-category in one language and across-
category in the other. The range of the Finnish vowel /e/ occupies portions
of the four-dimensional (F1–F4) vowel space occupied by /é/ and /ɛ/ in
Hungarian. Meanwhile, the Finnish vowels /e/ and /æ/ are located in the
region of vowel space occupied by /ɛ/ in Hungarian. Consequently, they
synthesized a pair of vowel tokens that would be perceived as /é/ and /ɛ/ by
Hungarian participants, but only as /e/ by Finnish participants. They also
synthesized a pair of vowel tokens that would be perceived as /e/ and /æ/ by
Finnish participants, but only as /ɛ/ by Hungarian participants. Winkler and
colleagues (1999) report an MMN in all comparisons across groups. The
MMNs in the across-category conditions, however, were significantly larger
than the within-category condition in both groups of participants. While
these findings are consistent with distinctive feature theories, they do not
preclude purely segmental explanations.
13.5.2 Consonants
Sharma and Dorman (1999) used consonant-vowel (CV; /ta/–/da/) sequences
to better understand the influence of phonetic categories on the MMN.
242 P H I L I P J . M O N A H A N , E L L E N F . L A U , A N D W I L L I A M J . I D S A R D I
They found a minimal MMN in the within-category condition, but a sig-
nificantly larger MMN in the across-category condition, despite the fact
that the tokens were equally acoustically distant (20 ms VOT difference
between each token in both the within- and across-category conditions).
Subsequently, Sharma and Dorman (2000) compared the MMN responses
of Hindi and American English speakers on a VOT contrast native to Hindi
but absent in English. They manipulated the amount of pre-voicing dura-
tion to create a /pa/–/ba/ continuum between 0 and −90 ms VOT. In the
MMN experiment, the standard was the −10 ms VOT stimulus and the
deviant was the −50 ms VOT stimulus. As predicted, a large and reliable
MMN beginning roughly 175 ms post-onset of the deviant stimulus was
found in the Hindi participants, but absent in the English participants.
Consistent with the findings from Näätänen et al. (1997) and Winkler et al.
(1999), these results suggest that the MMN is sensitive to phonetic category
distributions of the native language of the participants. The interpretation
of these results is complicated by the fact that the stimuli were words in
Hindi, allowing the Hindi participants to map the sounds onto lexical
entries, but not for the English speakers. While it is clear that these studies
report electrophysiological sensitivity to properties of the stimulus not
reflected in their physical attributes (e.g., native language inventory, dif-
ferential effects contingent upon category boundaries, etc.), it remains to
be seen whether or not listeners are constructing phonological represen-
tations of the standards in these cases, or whether they are reflecting
phonetic category-level distributions.
The experiments conducted up to that point could not distinguish
between a phonological account from a purely acoustic or phonetic one.
Using MEG in an oddball paradigm, Phillips and colleagues (2000)
employed a many-to-one design (e.g., Aulanko et al. 1993; Gomes, Ritter,
and Vaughan 1995; Winkler et al. 1990) in the discrimination of /dæ/ and /tæ/,
which differ in the duration of voice onset time (VOT; the duration
between the release of the stop closure on /t/ and /d/ and the onset of voicing
in the vowel). This time instead of varying pitch (cf. Aulanko et al. 1993),
which is not the primary acoustic/phonetic contrast between /b/ and /g/,
Phillips et al. modulated the duration of voice onset time, which is a
primary cue in the distinction between /d/ and /t/ (Liberman, Delattre, and
Cooper 1958). The VOT duration for /d/ is of the range 0 ms to 25 ms and /t/
is of the range 30 ms to 105 ms (Lisker and Abramson 1964). In a many-to-
one oddball design, there is a many-to-one relationship at the phonological
but not acoustic level of representation (cf. Sharma and Dorman 1999).
Phillips et al. synthesized a series of stimuli along the /dæ/–/tæ/ continuum
which varied in the duration of the VOT in 8 ms increments. In the first
half of the experiment, 87.5% of the acoustic tokens were randomly sampled
from one side of the category boundary continuum (12.5% from the
continuum of the other side of the category boundary), and in the second
half of the experiment, the majority of acoustic tokens (87.5% again)
Computational primitives in phonology 243
were randomly sampled from the other side of the category boundary.
Consequently, at the level of acoustic representation, there was no standard,
as each successive stimulus presentation was acoustically distinct from the
token that either preceded or followed. Phillips and colleagues reported a
reliable MMN to the deviant, suggesting that listeners were able to construct
a category representation at the phonological level for the standard despite
the acoustic variation in the individual tokens. That is, listeners seemed to be
able to perceptually group these acoustically distinct tokens together to
form a category, and when they perceived a token from the other side of
the category boundary, they were able to detect the change (as indexed by
the MMN).
To demonstrate that listeners were constructing representations consis-
tent with their linguistic representations and not simply grouping the
tokens based on “long” or “short” VOTs, Phillips et al. (2000) conducted a
follow-up whereby 20 ms of VOT were added to all the VOT values, such
that now all the tokens had “long” VOTs, and there was no longer a many-
to-one relationship at the phonological category level. They found no
MMN, suggesting that in the earlier experiment, listeners were in fact
grouping the standards together in a manner consistent with their linguis-
tic categories. These results do not, however, necessarily point
to a phonological explanation over a phonetic category explanation.
In exemplar models (e.g. Pierrehumbert 2002), phonetic representations
reflect Gaussian distributions along a number of acoustic phonetic param-
eters. Consequently, perception of a token that is sampled from a distinct
phonetic category could give rise to the MMN reported in Phillips et al.
(2000). An additional, alternative explanation is one based entirely on
neurophysiology. The categorical boundary in English stop consonants
is roughly 30 ms VOT. The idea is that this VOT boundary is a conse-
quence of auditory neuron response properties to independent acoustic
events occurring in quick succession (Sinex and McDonald 1988, 1989;
Steinschneider et al. 1995). Certain groups of auditory neurons respond to
both the noise burst of the stop consonant and the onset of the voicing of
the vowel. The refractory period for some of these neurons is roughly 30
ms, which lines up well with the typically cross-linguistically observed
VOT durations.
One of the core definitional properties of being phonological in nature is
the direct relationship to meaning (Halle 2002). The phoneme, a unit of
representation undeniably phonological, is traditionally defined as the
smallest unit of linguistic representation that can serve to distinguish
lexical meaning. Consequently, it is important to compare contrasts that
do and do not serve to distinguish lexical meanings in different languages.
Kazanina et al. (2006) compared speakers from two languages in a mis-
match experiment nearly identical to Phillips et al. (2000). The novelty of
this experiment is that Kazanina et al. tested both Russian and Korean
speakers on the /d/–/t/ continuum, speakers of languages which differ in
244 P H I L I P J . M O N A H A N , E L L E N F . L A U , A N D W I L L I A M J . I D S A R D I
the phonemic status assigned to /t/ and /d/. In Russian, both /t/ and /d/ have
phonemic status: [tom] “volume” and [dom] “house” are two distinct lex-
ical entries. In Korean, however, /t/ and /d/ share an allophonic relationship
and appear in complementary distribution. The voiced allophone [d]
occurs intervocalically (e.g., /paTa/ → [pada] “sea”), whereas the voiceless
unaspirated counterpart occurs word-initially (e.g., /Tarimi/ → [tarimi]
“iron”). Thus, both languages share a bimodal distribution of /d/ and /t/ at
the phonetic level. The expectation, then, is that in a many-to-one oddball
design, if participants are constructing a purely phonological representa-
tion of the standard, we expect to find an MMN in the Russian participants
but not in the Korean participants, because these sounds are represented
independently at the level of phonology in Russian but not in Korean. They
reported a reliable MMN for the Russian participants, and no reliable
difference in the RMS of the MEG temporal waveform for the Korean
participants in any time window between 20 ms and 340 ms. Unlike the
findings from Phillips et al. (2000), the results in Kazanina et al. (2006) are
considerably more difficult to explain by appealing to phonetic category
distributions alone. Given that both [t] and [d] occur phonetically in Korean
and Russian, if participants were simply constructing a phonetic represen-
tation of the standard, then both the Korean and Russian participants
should show an MMF to deviant stimuli. One caveat, however, is that
given that Korean listeners rarely, if ever, hear [d] word-initially, their
failure to elicit an MMF to the deviant tokens in the experiment could be
explained by the fact that [d] never occurs word-initially in Korean, and
therefore, word-initial [d] does not exist in the phonetic distribution in the
language (see Silverman 2006 for the idea that allophonic variants are
stored together with their contextual licensing environments). The fact
that allophones occur in complementary distributions makes it difficult to
design a completely balanced experiment.
Gomes et al. (1995) suggest that listeners can perceptually group
standards in an oddball MMN design along one particular physical
dimension that all the standards share. If this interpretation is correct,
then the MMN is an excellent tool for investigating the representative
nature of distinctive features. In the only experiment of which we are
aware, Yeung and Phillips (2004) asked if participants would be able to
perceptually group relatively disparate standards sharing one distinctive
feature (i.e. [+voice]). In 37.5% of the trials, they heard /bæ/, and in
another 37.5% of the trials they heard /gæ/. In 12.5% of the trials they
heard the pseudo-deviant /dæ/, and in the final 12.5% of the trials they
heard the deviant /tæ/. The consonants /b/, /d/ and /g/ all form a natural
class: voiced stop consonants. While the consonant /t/ is also a stop, it is
produced without vibration of the vocal folds in the glottis. Therefore, in
an oddball paradigm, if listeners can construct representations of the
standard at the level of the distinctive feature, then they predict to find
an MMF to the /tæ/ syllable and not the /dæ/ syllable even though their
Computational primitives in phonology 245
likelihood of occurrence is identical. However, this design is heavily
dependent on the exact details of the feature theory. For example, /b/
and /g/ can form a natural class to the exclusion of /d/ if assuming a feature
such as [peripheral] or [grave] (Jakobson, Fant, and Halle 1952). If the
standard is then [+voice]; [+grave], then both /d/ and /t/ would be appro-
priate deviants. Ultimately, Yeung and Phillips found significant effects
in the mismatch region between standards and deviants and also failed to
find a difference between the standard and pseudo-deviants in any
region. Curiously, however, they also found an effect in the mismatch
time window for the acoustic condition (cf. Phillips et al. 2000). This
result makes these findings difficult to interpret, but highlight quite
nicely the power of the MMN/MMF paradigm in trying to assess the
representational nature of speech sounds. More studies using this design
are encouraged.
13.5.3 Underspeciﬁcation
Investigating a perhaps more nuanced linguistically motivated hypothe-
sis, Eulitz and Lahiri (2004) used the MMN to test whether phonemic
representations in the lexicon are underspecified for non-contrastive dis-
tinctive feature values in the language. The used the German vowels /e/, /ø/
and /o/ in an oddball paradigm with German participants. It has been
assumed that the feature [coronal] is not specified in the phonological
lexicon (Archangeli 1988; Lahiri and Reetz 2002). Under this hypothesis,
then, the vowel /e/ is underspecified for its place of articulation in the
phonological lexicon, while /o/ is specified for both [dorsal] and [labial],
since it is both round (i.e. [labial]) and back (i.e. [dorsal]). Given that /ø/ is
both front and round, it is specified for [labial] but underspecified for
[coronal]. The comparison of interest lies in the /o/–/ø/ pair. When /o/ is
the standard and /ø/ is the deviant, a conflict at the level of phonological
representation occurs. This is because the [coronal] feature extracted from
the auditory signal of /ø/ mismatches with the stored representation of
[dorsal] for the standard /o/. A contrast should not occur in the opposite
direction because [coronal] is omitted from the lexical representation. If /ø/
is underspecified for its place of articulation, then the constructed repre-
sentation of the standard does not contain a specification for place, and
therefore, the specified [dorsal] feature on /o/ would not conflict. For the
/e/–/ø/ pair, since neither is specified for place of articulation, no conflict
should exist at the level of phonological representation. Therefore, they
predict a larger MMN when /o/ is the standard and /ø/ is the deviant
compared to when /ø/ is the standard and /o/ is the deviant. Moreover,
they predicted no difference in the /e/–/ø/ pair. They found a clear MMN
component in the grand average waveform for all conditions. There was
no difference in the latency or amplitude of the MMN for the /e/–/ø/ pair.
That is, an approximately equivalent MMN was elicited irrespective of
246 P H I L I P J . M O N A H A N , E L L E N F . L A U , A N D W I L L I A M J . I D S A R D I
which phoneme was the standard and which phoneme was the deviant.
They did, however, find a differential MMN in the /ø/–/o/ pair: a larger and
earlier MMN when /o/ was the standard and /ø/ was the deviant than in the
opposite configuration. That is, despite the fact that the acoustic differ-
ence is identical, a larger and earlier MMN is elicited in one standard/
deviant configuration than the other, suggesting that the MMN is indexing
more than just the physical properties of the stimulus. Eulitz and Lahiri
(2004) suggest that these findings support the predictions of a featurally
underspecified lexicon model (Lahiri and Reetz 2002, 2010), whereby some
features, those that do not play a contrastive role in lexical representation,
are not phonologically specified.
More recently, Hacquard, Walter, and Marantz (2007) exploited the MMF
to investigate the role of vowel inventory and size on the perception of
vowels. The size of a vowel inventory within a given language influences
the acoustic consequences of articulation. In particular, it has been
reported that languages with larger vowel inventories also tend to have a
larger acoustic vowel space relative to languages with smaller vowel
inventories (Bradlow 1995). To understand the influence of vowel inven-
tory size and organization on perception, Hacquard et al. (2007) tested
native speakers of Spanish and French in an oddball MMF paradigm. The
vowel spaces of Spanish and French differ on both their size and organ-
ization: (1) Spanish is a five-vowel system, while French has 12 vowels
(including the five vowels found in Spanish) and (2) French has a series of
vowels intervening in F2/F1 space between the vowels of Spanish (e.g., /ɛ/
intervenes between /e/ and /a/; /ɔ/ intervenes between /o/ and /a/). They
hypothesized that if inventory organization had an effect on perception,
then the effect of the MMF should be roughly equivalent for the /o/–/u/ pair
as the /o/–/a/ pair in Spanish. That is because these two pairs are equally
distant in terms of intervening vowels. In French, however, since /ɔ/ inter-
venes between /o/ and /a/, they predicted the MMF to be larger in the /o/–/a/
pair than in the /o/–/u/ pair if inventory size played a role. Across languages,
if inventory organization was the primary factor in perception, no differ-
ence would be predicted in the magnitude of the MMF for the /o/–/u/ pair
between the French and Spanish pair, while a difference would be pre-
dicted between the /o/–/a/ pair, since French has an intervening vowel
category and Spanish does not. If, on the other hand, inventory size was
the primary factor driving the MMF response, Hacquard et al. expected the
French participants to show a larger MMF across the board, since French
has the larger vowel inventory. What they found was that a larger MMF
was elicited in French participants compared to Spanish participants for
all vowel comparisons except the /ɛ/–/e/ pair, suggesting that vowel inven-
tory size (the number of vowel categories in the language) and not inven-
tory organization affects the perception of vowels. Hacquard et al. took this
particular pattern of results to support a model of expanding vowel space
whereby point vowels (e.g., vowels on the edge of the vowel space) are
Computational primitives in phonology 247
produced more distinctly from one another than vowels more centrally
located in the perceptual space.
In sum, the MMN/MMF has proven to be an extremely powerful tool in
assessing the types of auditory and linguistic representations supported by
auditory cortex. While the ultimate focus of these studies was to investigate
the available representations supported by auditory cortex, as well as prop-
erties of phonetic category distributions and native language inventories,
they also serve to demonstrate that the MMN indexes abstract properties of
the stimulus. It should also be noted that the MMN oddball paradigm has
been used to investigate the role of phonological constraints on syllable
structure in native and non-native speech perception (Dehaene-Lambertz,
Dupoux, and Gout 2000), the nature of lexical access (Assadollahi and
Pulvermüller, 2003; Shtyrov and Pulvermüller 2002a, 2002b) and certain
aspects of syntactic processing (Pulvermüller and Shtyrov 2006; Shtyrov
et al. 2003). Designing experiments geared toward directly testing the status
of phonological features, per se, remains challenging.
13.6 Phonotopy
The most intuitive neural coding scheme in any domain of cognition is a
topographical one, the most famous example being retinotopy in vision
(Palmer 1999). The neurons in primary visual cortex are mapped in such a
way that brain space corresponds to retinal space. For example, two neu-
rons in neighboring areas of cortex each represent neighboring parts of
the retina. This kind of coding is known as place coding, because the
significance of a particular neuron firing can be straightforwardly related
to the region of cortex in which it is located. Place coding is probably the
easiest neural coding scheme to detect with non-invasive neuroimaging
techniques, and we can look for place coding in any domain in which we
believe the representations to be ordered along some kind of semi-
continuous stimulus dimension. In the auditory domain, we know that
receptors in the cochlea are organized “tonotopically,” i.e. along a fre-
quency gradient (Schnupp, Nelkin, and King 2010). Tonotopic mapping is
preserved in the projection to auditory cortex (Formisano et al. 2003;
Talavage et al. 2004; Langers et al. 2007; Humphries et al. 2010) both in
individual neurons and in aggregations of neurons. Using MEG it has been
shown that the estimated location of the source of the M100 auditory
response to a tone depends on the tone’s pitch along a medial-lateral
dimension (Pantev et al. 1989; Huotilainen et al. 1995; Langner et al. 1997).
Since the neural representation of basic acoustic properties appears to
use place coding, a natural question is whether this coding continues to be
used as the representations to be encoded become more complex and
speech-specific. Phonemic representations have often been defined by
virtue of their position along a number of proposed featural dimensions,
248 P H I L I P J . M O N A H A N , E L L E N F . L A U , A N D W I L L I A M J . I D S A R D I
most notably the vertical and horizontal position of articulators within the
mouth. Might phonemic representations therefore be subject to place-
coding as well? Many studies have examined this question in recent
years, mainly by using MEG to localize the M100 response to vowel or
syllable presentation. The most consistent finding across these studies is
that early MEG responses localize along an anterior–posterior gradient in
STG according to the place of articulation on the front–back dimension
(e.g., Diesch et al. 1996; 2000; Obleser et al. 2003; 2004; Scharinger et al.
2010). For example, Obleser et al. (2004) examined the M100 response to
German vowels [a], [e], [i], [o], [u], [ø], and [y]. They showed that the M100
response to front/coronal vowels such as [i], [y], [ø] and [e] localized to a
more anterior position than the response to back/dorsal vowels such as [u]
and [o]. Convergent results have been observed in fMRI (Obleser et al. 2006).
Although these kinds of results show that the location of neural responses
tracks featural dimensions that have been proposed by phonological theory,
a similar pattern of results could arise from a place code that is purely
acoustic in nature. Speech sounds are spectrally complex, of course, and
featural dimensions proposed on articulatory grounds have acoustic corre-
lates in the form of frequency shifts across primary formants like F1 and F2.
In this way, what looks like “phonotopy” may simply be multidimensional
“tonotopy.” In order to show that the spatial selectivity observed reflects the
encoding of linguistic representations, one must demonstrate that the topo-
graphical pattern of activity cannot be explained by acoustic parameters
alone. Several of these studies have made progress toward this by showing
that a model including phonological features achieves a better fit to the
observed localizations than a purely acoustic model (Diesch et al. 1996;
Obleser et al. 2004). For example, Scharinger et al. (2011) mapped the M100
response for the entire vowel space of Turkish and observed spatial gra-
dients that could capture the featural dimensions of height, place of artic-
ulation, and roundedness. However, the map for front vowels was oriented
orthogonally to the map for back vowels. The authors show with statistical
modeling that while the cortical maps reflect acoustic properties of the
signal, the map is warped toward linguistically relevant categories. This
suggests that place-based encoding of language-specific phonemic represen-
tations may develop on the basis of experience from “tonotopic” encodings
that are originally purely acoustic. More practically, this study indicates that
future experiments in other languages may need to more exhaustively
probe their vowel spaces in order to correctly interpret how the topograph-
ical pattern maps onto the linguistically relevant feature dimensions.
13.7 Phonological processes
To this point, we have primarily focused on the nature of phonological
representations, the primitives that have been investigated to date in
Computational primitives in phonology 249
the cognitive neuroscience literature. The other half of phonology has
concerned itself with the processes that operate over these representa-
tions. Far less work has been conducted on the cognitive neuroscience
of phonological processes, and consequently, we have less to say about
these issues. They do, however, remain ripe for further investigation.
Electrophysiological techniques have been used to investigate the neural
time course of violations of phonological rules/phonotactic restrictions
(Flagg, Oram Cardy, and Roberts 2006; Mitterer and Blomert, 2003;
Tavabi et al. 2009). For example, Flagg and colleagues (2006) exploited
the fact that pre-nasal vowels are nasalized in English and measured the
electrophysiological latencies of the response peaks in MEG to congruent
(i.e. [aba], [ãma]) and incongruent (i.e. [ãba], [ama]) VCV sequences.
Overall, latencies in the time-window of 50–100 ms post-onset of the
consonant were shorter for the congruent as opposed to incongruent
sound sequences.
In an oddball detection experiment, Mitterer and Blomert (2003) found
in Dutch listeners that violations of expected nasal place assimilation
patterns between words elicited a larger mismatch negativity response
(MMN, approximately 100–200 ms after onset of the consonant) than did
adherence to nasal place assimilation patterns. These results suggest that
although cortical responses that reflect phonological processing are early,
the types of responses measured (latency versus amplitude) and the time-
window in which differences were found varied.
In recent MEG work (Monahan, Hwang, and Idsardi 2008) based on
previous behavioral findings (Hwang, Monahan, and Idsardi 2010), we
found a reliable difference between consonant clusters that were congru-
ent in their voicing specification (i.e. [utz]) with those that were incon-
gruent (i.e. [uds]) as early as 150 ms post-onset of the violating segment,
in this case, the fricative (i.e. [s]). We interpreted these differences to
suggest that listeners can exploit their knowledge of phonological pro-
cesses and representation to constrain early perceptual parses of the
sensory input, as well as using this detailed knowledge to serve as the
basis for generating hypotheses and predictions about the nature of
the upcoming speech signal (see Poeppel and Monahan 2011 for more
discussion on how we believe these results fit into a larger, analysis-by-
synthesis architecture).
13.8 Conclusions
Although a vast amount of work has examined the biological basis of
speech perception and speech production, a critical missing piece has
been our lack of knowledge about the biological basis of the phonological
representations that map between lower-level sensory and motor repre-
sentations to more abstract lexical representations. We believe that
250 P H I L I P J . M O N A H A N , E L L E N F . L A U , A N D W I L L I A M J . I D S A R D I
linguists have an important role to play in the effort to better understand
the neural implementation of phonological knowledge, and that phonol-
ogy may in fact be a more fruitful starting place than syntax for the general
biolinguistic enterprise. Here, we have reviewed some recent work that
makes some beginning steps forward in this direction and hope that in
doing so we have encouraged others to continue to expand this effort.
Appendix: Cognitive neuroscience methodologies
Acceptability judgments and various fieldwork methods have been the
preferred methods for the field of phonology over the past several decades.
In the domain of behavioral psycholinguistics, a variety of tasks and
methodologies have been employed to understand the psychological pro-
cesses that underlie spoken word recognition (see Grosjean and
Frauenfelder 1996 for a collection of papers on the various techniques in
the field), and by and large, the primary dependent measures in those tasks
are reaction time data, accuracy, or normalized discriminability scores
(e.g., d´; see Macmillan and Creelman 1991 for review). While we advocate
the position that no type of measure or technique is inherently better than
any other and that an interpretable answer to any problem requires a
combination of the right question with the appropriate technique, the
techniques of cognitive neuroscience may remain less familiar than others
to some readers of this volume. Therefore in the following we briefly
introduce the primary techniques used in this field.
A.1 Aphasias and patient-work
Overview
Neuropsychological studies of patients with language deficits are one
important source of evidence. In these studies, investigators develop
tasks to carefully probe those aspects of linguistic knowledge or process-
ing that are relatively preserved and those that are not. If one observes that
performance on two seemingly independent tasks are typically correlated
in patients, one can conclude that the same brain area is likely responsible
for task performance, even before determining which brain area is
recruited; conversely, a dissociation in performance implicates a dissocia-
tion in regions responsible for performing those tasks. Much of the early
work proceeded in this way, with investigators identifying deficits that
tended to cluster together or dissociate. Given the current prevalence of
MRI, most neuropsychological studies additionally include measures that
attempt to determine exactly which brain area is responsible for the
deficits. Structural MRIs of numerous patients presenting with various
patterns of linguistic deficits can be conducted, lesions can be identified
Computational primitives in phonology 251
in each, and the number of lesions in a particular area can be correlated
with behavioral measures in a method known as voxel-based lesion map-
ping (e.g., Dronkers et al. 2004). Perhaps the key benefit of neuropsycho-
logical studies in understanding language in the brain is that they permit
at least limited conclusions about causality. With measures of brain activ-
ity, the absence of observed activity in an area could always be due to the
insensitivity of the technique; the presence of observed activity could
reflect some process correlated with the process of interest. However,
with patient studies, one can conclude that a particular brain area is in
some way crucial for performing a task because when that area is damaged
or not functioning, the patient simply cannot do the task.
Practical issues
Neuropsychological studies require a very good theory of the processes
and knowledge required for performing the tasks that compose the
dependent measure (see Hickok and Poeppel 2004 for a discussion of
how misunderstanding of the task may have led to incorrect conclusions
about the brain areas involved in phonological processing). The small
sample sizes and the heterogeneity of the brain areas damaged and the
deficits observed across patients frequently make it difficult to extrapolate
findings to the general population.
A.2 Electroencephalography (EEG)
Overview
Perhaps the most widely used measure of brain activity, EEG is typically
conducted with an array of electrodes attached to a cap that is placed on
the scalp. Salt water or water-soluble gel is used to improve the connection
between the scalp and the electrodes, and then the voltage between each
electrode and a reference electrode is recorded. Momentary neural events
like action potentials (~1 ms) or extremely local changes in activity (across
a few neurons) are unlikely to sum to a change in potential large enough to
be observed at the scalp. Therefore, changes in the EEG are thought to
mainly reflect modulatory activity across entire neuronal populations in
rough synchrony (Nunez 1981; Luck 2005). In cognitive studies, one is
often interested in the brain response to stimuli (events) presented at
particular points in time, so one might present many events and average
the EEG in the time-window following each event; the resulting waveform
is referred to as an event-related potential (ERP), and studies that focus on
changes in the average EEG response to a stimulus are therefore often
referred to as ERP studies. As a measure for probing phonological process-
ing, EEG has a number of benefits. In contrast to behavioral measures like
reaction times, an ERP study does not require an explicit task, which can
alleviate concerns of invoking unnatural processing strategies. Moreover,
the time-sensitivity of the technique is excellent. With sufficient statistical
252 P H I L I P J . M O N A H A N , E L L E N F . L A U , A N D W I L L I A M J . I D S A R D I
power, one can detect differences on the order of a few milliseconds, or
more commonly, a few tens of milliseconds, and therefore, it is one of the
best techniques available for investigating questions about the time course
of processing.
Practical issues
Setting up an EEG lab is relatively inexpensive (~ $30,000), and the only
continuing costs are minor supplies for set-up and replacing the caps
($500–$1000) that hold the electrodes and are worn by participants after
several hundred uses. The analysis methods, while requiring some train-
ing, are easier to grasp and are less computationally intensive than those
for fMRI, and are more standardized (and therefore easier to build on
previous results and to get published) than those for MEG. Therefore,
EEG can be a good choice for new investigators. A well-known weakness
of EEG is that it does not provide reliable information about the location of
changes in neural activity. This is because the conductive layers of skull
and tissue between the brain and the electrodes tend to smear electrical
activity. Some degree of source localization can be achieved if one records
from a greater number of electrodes, but these methods are still under
development and replication of results has been challenging.
A.3 Magnetoencephalography (MEG)
Overview
MEG measures fluctuations in magnetic field strength recorded externally
from the scalp. Like all electrical signals, the changing electrical current
measured by EEG is accompanied by magnetic fields. Thus, MEG captures
the same kind of synchronous modulatory neural activity, and as a con-
sequence, it has the same excellent temporal resolution; however, the
relationship of the relative orientation of the source of the electro-
magnetic potentials/fields to the scalp with the optimal orientation for
the sensitivity of the techniques is slightly different (Hansen, Kringelbach,
and Salmelin 2010). While EEG records electrical activity oriented in any
direction, MEG is blind to activity in certain orientations, in particular
magnetic dipoles that are radial to the surface of the scalp. For the same
reason, MEG is less sensitive to activity deeper in the brain, in subcortical
areas. Although this seems to suggest that EEG “sees more” than MEG, the
fact that more activity is visible to EEG also means that EEG is more
susceptible to cancellation between sources (activity in two areas simulta-
neously with opposite orientation will sum to zero at the scalp). The most
well-known benefit of MEG compared to EEG is that it provides better
information about the location of neural activity because, unlike electrical
fields, magnetic fields are not distorted by intervening tissue between the
electric activity and sensors/electrodes. For example, even without
Computational primitives in phonology 253
sophisticated source localization methods, in MEG it is often possible to
reasonably conclude from observing greater activity in left hemisphere
sensors that there is greater neural activity in the left hemisphere.
Practical issues
MEG setup is typically much faster and more comfortable for participants,
and requires less training for the experimenters. In MEG the magnetic
sensors are arranged in a fixed helmet, because they must be constantly
cooled by liquid helium. Unlike EEG, they do not need to be physically
attached to the participant, and there is no need to create a conductive
bridge between the sensor and the scalp. A major downside of MEG is its
cost; start-up can be as much as $4,000,000, in large part due to the costs
associated with the magnetically shielded room, and the liquid helium
required to maintain the machine is approximately $50,000 annually.
Analysis is much less standardized than in EEG, and therefore often
requires a much greater time investment for the beginning investigator
who may need to develop individualized analysis procedures. Source local-
ization, while more accurate than for EEG, is still a computationally ill-
formed problem with an infinite number of solutions, and it is still largely
unknown how well current methods do in cases in which multiple sources
are active simultaneously. Collecting a separate structural MRI is also
necessary for accurate source localization in EEG or MEG, which further
increases cost and complexity. However, it is important to remember that
although MEG is often touted on the basis of its improved localization,
MEG measurements can still be very informative about the time course of
processing even without precise source localization analyses.
A.4 Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)
Overview
FMRI is the most widely available tool for localizing neural activity to
specific brain regions. Different types of biological tissue and substances
differ in magnetic susceptibility, and MRI can use these differences to
create maps that highlight the location of the tissue or substance of
interest. Functional MRI typically measures the blood-oxygen-level
dependent (BOLD) signal, the change in magnetic susceptibility that arises
when the blood oxygen level changes. It is known that local neural activity
results in systematic changes in blood oxygenation, and therefore changes
in BOLD in a given brain region are often taken as a proxy for changes in
neural activity in that region. However, one limitation of fMRI is that the
exact nature of the relationship between BOLD and neural firing is still not
completely understood (see Huettel et al. 2004 for an introduction to this
issue), and many factors such as the proximity of large blood vessels and
excitatory versus inhibitory firing may complicate the interpretation of
254 P H I L I P J . M O N A H A N , E L L E N F . L A U , A N D W I L L I A M J . I D S A R D I
BOLD changes. Because blood flow is relatively slow, the peak of a
stimulus-evoked increase in BOLD occurs about 6 seconds after the item
is presented, and temporal precision is poor for the same reason, so that
fMRI is generally not a good method for estimating the time-course of
processing. However, no other non-invasive technique can currently
match fMRI in spatial precision. Unlike MEG source localization, which
is only as accurate as the model, fMRI delivers an unambiguous measure-
ment of magnetic susceptibility for each unit of space in the measurement.
This means that fMRI is often still the best choice for addressing “where”
questions.
Practical issues
In the past, one particular challenge for fMRI work on phonology has been
that the shifting magnetic gradients that are required for imaging are very
loud, thus inducing noise and possible confounds in studies using auditory
stimuli. Studies of phonological production are similarly challenging
because changes in articulator position can result in time-locked artifacts.
However, clever imaging sequences are now available in which acquisition
is delayed until several seconds after stimulus presentation or production,
thus mitigating some of these problems. Because of both cost and the
safety issues involved in working in an environment with a powerful
magnet, most MRI machines are maintained by large institutions rather
than individual laboratories. At the same time, there are now so many MRI
machines for medical use that researchers in developed countries can
usually find one nearby that they can arrange to use during off-hours.
Although the cost per hour for MRI use is often high (~$500), many
institutions will allow researchers with a well-developed proposal to col-
lect pilot data at little or no cost, which can be used to motivate grant
proposals that would allow completion of the project. fMRI data analysis is
computationally intensive and less intuitive than ERP analysis, but it is
currently more standardized and better documented than MEG analysis.
A.5 Alternative methods
Several other techniques have also been used to probe brain activity
associated with phonological processing. Positron Emission Tomography
(PET) can measure brain metabolism of different compounds through the
use of radioactive tracers; for example, one could measure the rate of
glucose metabolism in different brain areas while participants perform
cognitive tasks in order to determine which areas become more active for
which tasks. Some benefits of PET for phonological studies are that it
provides fairly good spatial precision but is not noisy to acquire like fMRI
and is not disrupted by articulator movement. Some drawbacks are that
only block designs can be used with PET (as it takes a number of minutes
for the tracer to leave the system), and high cost, technical difficulty in
Computational primitives in phonology 255
working with short-lived radioactive tracers, and radiation exposure to
participants. Near Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS) uses infrared light to meas-
ure changes in blood oxygenation associated with neural activity. It is less
widely available than fMRI but is beginning to be used more frequently for
studies of processing in infants, because of safety concerns in exposing
infants to strong magnetic fields, the reduced acoustic noise compared to
fMRI, and less susceptibility to movement artifact. Event-related optical
signaling (EROS) is an even newer method that also uses infrared light but
measures changes in the optical properties of active neurons themselves,
thus increasing temporal resolution.
256 P H I L I P J . M O N A H A N , E L L E N F . L A U , A N D W I L L I A M J . I D S A R D I
14
Computational primitives
in syntax and possible
brain correlates
Matthias Schlesewsky and
Ina Bornkessel-Schlesewsky
14.1 Introduction
In spite of the many debates that continue to revolve around language, two
assumptions appear relatively uncontroversial: (a) language is structured;
and (b) it is ultimately a product of neural processes, i.e. the result of
interactions between neurons and neuronal assemblies. The first point is
supported by the observation that communication does not seem to proceed
arbitrarily in any human language. In other words, the correspondence
between a complex linguistic form (e.g. a sentence) and its respective mean-
ing is both systematic and, at least to a certain degree, compositional (Fodor
and Pylyshyn 1988). With regard to the second point, one might, trivially,
ask how things could be otherwise. In addition, however, it has been known
for thousands of years that pressure applied to certain parts of the brain
significantly impacts upon an individual’s capacity to produce coherent
utterances (see, for example, the Edwin Smith surgical papyrus; Wilkins
1992) and this correlation between certain brain regions/networks and
language production or comprehension has, of course, been substantiated
by more recent research on the neurobiology of language (e.g. Geschwind
1970). The challenge, then, lies in bringing these two assertions together in
order to understand the correspondence between linguistic structure and
neuronal mechanisms. Yet as it turns out, this enterprise is far from trivial.
In our view, the problem is (at least) threefold. Firstly, the establishment
of correspondences between “computational primitives in syntax” and their
“brain correlates” presupposes that we know what these computational
primitives are and what might count as a suitable brain correlate. Both
issues are controversial – at least to a certain degree. On the one hand, the
identification and/or definition of a computational primitive is heavily
dependent on the particular syntactic theory which one adopts. On the
other hand, since the brain operates at a vast range of topographical and
temporal scales (ranging from single neurons to neuronal assemblies in
certain brain regions or neural networks spanning a number of regions;
from milliseconds to changes over the lifespan), the identification of what
might count as a neural correlate of an assumed computational primitive is
impeded by the difficulty of determining an adequate grain size for such a
correlate.1
Secondly, even under the assumption that adequate categories
had been established on both sides of the equation, the mapping between
them would nevertheless present a challenge. One reason for this lies in
what is often, in a computer-based analogy, described as the software vs.
hardware distinction: linguistic categories and processes (or, more gener-
ally, cognitive categories and processes) likely do not map directly onto
basic neural mechanisms, but rather onto a complex interplay between a
number of these basic mechanisms. The second difficulty stems from the
fact that the neural correlates of language cannot be considered in isolation:
language is always encountered or produced within a particular environ-
ment and thereby associated with a specific goal or task space. Thus, any
measurable correlates of language comprehension or production occur in
concert with – or at least alongside – measurable correlates of other cogni-
tive processes that allow us to deal with the task at hand (e.g. the orientation
of attention or the inhibition of irrelevant information). Thirdly, while
linguistic theories are typically formulated independently of the temporal
dimension (“[A] generative system involves no temporal dimension”
[Chomsky 2007d: 6]), language production and comprehension necessarily
proceed in time. Thus, there is a dimensionality mismatch between the
neural correlates of language and theoretical considerations.
Since the focus of this chapter is on linguistic operations, we will begin
by discussing possible candidates for primitives of syntactic computation
and the state of the art with regard to their possible neurobiological
correlates (Sections 14.2 and 14.3). Perhaps not unexpectedly in view of
the caveats outlined above, this discussion will reveal that many
operations that have been considered in this regard do not explain the
overall data pattern in a satisfactory manner. Rather, as described in
Section 14.4, many of the existing neuroimaging findings on “syntactic
processing” appear to be more parsimoniously explained in terms of more
general cognitive mechanisms (specifically: cognitive control). Finally,
Section 14.5 discusses Merge (or a similar structure-building operation)
as the most promising current candidate for a neurobiologically imple-
mented primitive of syntactic computation and describes approaches that
can bridge the gap between grammar and processing.
14.2 Combining elements
Independently of theoretical persuasion, most syntacticians would agree
that syntactic structuring involves the combination of elements to form
larger constituents, i.e. the combination of A and B to form C, where A and
258 M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y
B can themselves be internally complex. This idea has perhaps been
articulated most clearly in the context of the operation Merge in
Minimalist syntax:
An elementary fact about the language faculty is that it is a system of
discrete infinity. Any such system is based on a primitive operation that
takes n objects already constructed, and constructs from them a new
object: in the simplest case, the set of these n objects. Call that operation
Merge. Either Merge or some equivalent is a minimal requirement. With
Merge available, we instantly have an unbounded system of hierarchically
structured expressions. Chomsky (2005: 11)
Of course, not all of the properties of Merge carry over to “combining
operations” in other theories. On the one hand, the question of whether
syntactic objects involve hierarchical structure “all the way down,” i.e. at
each level of combination, has long been controversial, especially in view
of languages with a considerably freer word order than English or related
languages (for discussion, see Van Valin and LaPolla 1997). On the other
hand, not all theoretical accounts adopt the assumption that structures are
composed derivationally (as is the case with Merge). Rather, they assume
that the internal structure of complex syntactic objects is established
declaratively via unification, which is essentially a case of structure sharing
(e.g. Head-driven Phrase Structure Grammar, HPSG; Pollard and Sag 1994).
In other approaches (e.g. Role and Reference Grammar, RRG; Van Valin
2005), syntactic structures are established via the (unification-based) com-
bination of precompiled syntactic templates.
Abstracting away from the precise details of these different perspec-
tives, the following section will review neuroscientific research on pos-
sible brain correlates of a simple structure-building operation. For
concreteness’ sake, we will begin by using Merge as a model of such an
operation (Section 14.2.1). Indeed, many of the relevant experimental
studies also based their designs on the assumption of an operation that is
equivalent – or at least very similar – to Merge. Subsequently, we will
explore the possibility that different subcases of Merge may be associated
with measurably distinct neural correlates (Section 14.2.2). Finally, we will
extend the perspective to other possible operations which serve to com-
bine elements and establish structured syntactic representations
(Section 14.2.3).
14.2.1 Possible neural correlates of Merge
Perhaps the simplest approach that has been adopted in order to study the
neural correlates of sentence structuring has been to compare sentences
against word lists. The rationale behind this manipulation is that word
lists can serve as a suitable control for sensory and word-level aspects of
processing such that a contrast between sentence and word list processing
Computational primitives in syntax 259
should isolate correlates of sentence-level structuring. In a series of neuro-
imaging studies, this comparison revealed (primarily left-lateralized) acti-
vation in the anterior temporal lobe (ATL) for sentences in comparison to
word lists (Mazoyer et al. 1993; Bottini et al. 1994; Stowe et al. 1998;
Friederici, Meyer, and von Cramon 2000; Xu et al. 2005), thus rendering
the ATL a possible candidate for a neural correlate of basic syntactic
structuring (see also Dronkers et al. 2004, for similar conclusions on the
basis of deficit-lesion correlations in a patient study). The location of the
ATL – and of the other brain regions discussed in this chapter – is shown in
Figure 14.1. However, since sentences not only differ from word lists in
that they contain syntactic structure, the ATL activation observed in these
studies could potentially reflect various aspects of sentence-level process-
ing (e.g. sentence-level semantic composition). Indeed, on the basis of
further studies with more fine-grained manipulations (e.g. of semantic
coherence or prosodic contour), several scholars have argued that the
sentence-sensitivity of the ATL involves semantic (Vandenberghe, Nobre,
and Price 2002; Rogalsky and Hickok 2008) and prosodic contributions
(Humphries et al. 2005).
One possible explanation for the full range of findings on the ATL in
sentence processing could therefore be that this cortical region subserves
a range of sentence-level mechanisms, which might be dissociable if
more fine-grained neuroanatomical differentiations were undertaken.
Alternatively, it may be the case that the function of the ATL in sentence
processing is more general, i.e. goes beyond the basic syntactic combination
DFO
superior
posterior
anterior
inferior
MFG
PTr
POr
ATL
pSTG/STS
POP
vPMC
Figure 14.1 Lateral view of the left hemisphere of the human brain including a schematic
depiction of the brain regions discussed in this chapter. Abbreviations are explained in the list
of abbreviations in the appendix.
260 M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y
of elements to form larger constituents or hierarchically structured (and
potentially unbounded) expressions.2
In spite of these concerns, however,
the hypothesis that there may be a specific connection between the ATL and
basic processes of syntactic composition continues to attract a considerable
degree of attention; it also appears to receive converging support from new
paradigms. In a study using magnetoencephalography (MEG), for example,
Bemis and Pylkkänen (2011) observed ATL activation only when composi-
tion involved syntactic structuring (e.g. when participants read the word
“boat” as part of a string such as “red boat” rather than following a nonword
as in “xkq boat”). By contrast, as reported by Bemis and Pylkkänen (2010), no
such activation is engendered by non-linguistic stimuli involving the same
semantic content (e.g. a colored line drawing of a red boat as opposed to a
line drawing of a boat without a color fill).
An alternative line of research that can be viewed as relevant with regard
to the possible brain bases of Merge has sought to approach the possible
neural correlates of “an unbounded system of hierarchically structured
expressions” (Chomsky 2005: 11, see above). This approach was sparked by
the claim that the “[faculty of language in the narrow sense] only includes
recursion and is the only uniquely human component of the faculty of
language” (Hauser, Chomsky, and Fitch 2002: 1569). In order to examine
the possible neural underpinnings of this proposal, Friederici and col-
leagues (Friederici et al. 2006a; Bahlmann, Schubotz, and Friederici 2008;
Makuuchi et al. 2009) conducted a series of neuroimaging studies in which
they compared recursive structures, i.e. structures involving self-
embedding, with structures in which there was no embedding. The first
study of this type (Friederici et al. 2006a) presented participants with two
different types of artificial grammars, one of which involved embedding
(recursion) and one of which did not. Following a study by Fitch and Hauser
(2004), the recursive grammar was implemented by presenting syllable
sequences of the type An
Bn
(e.g. AABB, AAABBB; assumed hierarchical
structures: A[AB]B, A[A[AB]B]B etc.). The non-recursive grammar, by con-
trast, consisted of sequences of the type (AB)n
(e.g. AB, ABAB, ABABAB).3
A
functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study revealed that – when
grammatical violations were contrasted with grammatical strings – the
processing of both grammar types correlated with activation in the left
deep frontal operculum (DFO), a structure deep to the lateral surface of the
cortex, while only embedding grammars engendered additional activation
in the lateral convexity of the left inferior frontal gyrus (lIFG), specifically
within the pars opercularis (POp; Brodmann Area (BA) 44).4
In view of these findings, Friederici and her colleagues (Friederici et al.
2006a; Friederici 2009) argue for a functional-neuroanatomical subdivi-
sion between “hierarchical syntax” and “local syntax.” Specifically, they
assume that, in the case of an artificial grammar involving embedding,
sequences can only be classified correctly as grammatical (or ungrammat-
ical) if the dependency between the different (“hierarchical”) levels of As
Computational primitives in syntax 261
and Bs is recognized, while a non-embedding grammar only requires
participants to learn the local transition between As and Bs.5
They link
this functional-neuroanatomical dissociation to the evolutionary proposal
advanced by Hauser et al. (2002) by noting that the POp is phylogenetically
younger than the DFO, which resembles premotor cortex in terms of its
cytoarchitectonic properties (see also Friederici 2004). Thereby, they argue
that their data provide evidence for “an evolutionary trajectory with
respect to the computation of sequences, from processing simple proba-
bilities to computing hierarchical structures, with the latter recruiting
Broca’s area, a cortical region that is phylogenetically younger than the
frontal operculum, the brain region dealing with the processing of transi-
tional probabilities” (Friederici et al. 2006a: 2461).
With regard to natural language processing, Friederici and colleagues
argue that the distinction between hierarchical syntax and local syntax
also applies to the dissociation between word order permutations and
processes of intra-phrasal syntactic structuring (see Friederici 2004,
2009). While word order variations in flexible word order languages such
as German consistently correlate with activation in the lIFG and particu-
larly in the POp (e.g. Röder et al. 2002; Bornkessel et al. 2005; Grewe et al.
2005; Friederici et al. 2006b; Grewe et al. 2006; Bornkessel-Schlesewsky,
Schlesewsky, and von Cramon 2009), local phrase structure violations (e.g.
an incorrect word category within a phrase) appear to engender activation
with the DFO (e.g. Friederici et al. 2000; Friederici et al. 2003). More speci-
fically, Friederici assumes that the processing of hierarchical syntax draws
upon a “dorsal pathway” which connects the POp of the lIFG to the
posterior portion of left superior temporal cortex, while local syntax is
implemented in a “ventral pathway” which connects the deep frontal
operculum to the anterior temporal lobe (Friederici 2009). Crucially, hier-
archical syntax is also thought to be dissociable from general cognitive
limitations such as working memory resources (Makuuchi et al. 2009).
At this point, however, a potential problem becomes apparent: How is
the dissociation between local and hierarchical syntax (i.e. between local
combinations and hierarchical or long-distance combinations, respec-
tively) compatible with the definition of Merge? This is not at all clear,
since, as defined above, Merge is a local operation, the iterative applica-
tion of which serves to create hierarchical and potentially unbounded
syntactic representations. Thus, it essentially encompasses both locality
of structure building and the hierarchical aspect of structuring, which
are assumed to be neuroanatomically subdivided in Friederici’s
approach.6
However, if word order variations are taken as a point of
departure for the non-local dependencies that form an essential part of
Friederici’s “hierarchical syntax,” it appears possible that the neuroana-
tomical dissociation which she assumes could be attributed to the dis-
tinction between external Merge and internal Merge (Move). We will
explore this possibility in the next section.
262 M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y
14.2.2 A neuroanatomical distinction between external and internal
Merge (Move)? Evidence from the domain of word order
permutations
While in older versions of Chomskyan syntactic theory, the base-
generation of structure (Merge) was considered a distinct computation
from the movement of elements to create non-local dependencies
(Chomsky 1965, 1981b, 1995b), the operation Move is now assumed to be
a subcase of Merge:
Unless some stipulation is added, there are two subcases of the operation
Merge. Given A, we can merge B to it from outside A or from within A;
these are external and internal Merge, the latter the operation called
‘‘Move,’’ which therefore also ‘‘comes free,’’ yielding the familiar displace-
ment property of language. (Chomsky 2005: 12)
As is apparent from this definition, the dissociation between external
Merge (EM) and internal Merge (IM) indeed appears potentially suited to
deriving the neuroanatomical dissociations discussed in the preceding
section. Specifically, the lIFG (POp) activation for word order variations
could be viewed as a correlate of IM. As an illustration, consider the
following sentence conditions, which Friederici et al. (2006b) contrasted
in an fMRI study.
(1) Example stimuli from Friederici et al. (2006b)
a. Heute hat der Opa dem Jungen den Lutscher geschenkt.
today has [the grandpa]nom [the boy]dat [the lollipop]acc given
“Today, the grandpa gave the boy the lollipop.”
b. Heute hat dem Jungen der Opa den Lutscher geschenkt.
today has [the boy]dat [the grandpa]nom [the lollipop]acc given
c. Heute hat dem Jungen den Lutscher der Opa geschenkt.
today has [the boy]dat [the lollipop]acc [the grandpa]NOM
given
For the sentence types in (1), Friederici et al. (2006b) observed a parametric
increase of activation in the POp of the lIFG with increasing deviation from
the basic word order: (c) > (b) > (a) (where > denotes “shows higher
activation than”). From findings such as these, Friederici and Grodzinsky
(2006) conclude that the lIFG (and particularly the POp) supports the
processing of syntactic movement operations. In contrast to Friederici’s
broader notion of “hierarchical syntax” (see above), Grodzinsky and col-
leagues indeed assume that this follows from a specialization (of subparts
of the lIFG) for movement (Grodzinsky 2000; Ben-Shachar, Palti, and
Grodzinsky 2004; Santi and Grodzinsky 2007a; Santi and Grodzinsky
2007b; Grodzinsky and Santi 2008).
Aiming to provide additional empirical support for this proposal, Santi
and Grodzinsky (2007a, 2007b) directly compared the processing of syntac-
tic dependencies that either involved movement (wh-questions, relative
clauses) or did not (binding). In one study (Santi and Grodzinsky 2007b),
Computational primitives in syntax 263
they used a 2 × 2 factorial design (see example 2) in order to be able to isolate
the effects of a movement dependency.7
Their results revealed a main effect
of movement in the lIFG (Brodmann area, BA 44), the left superior temporal
gyrus (STG), and the inferior portion of the left precentral sulcus (i.e. the
sulcus separating the POp from ventral premotor cortex, vPMC). By contrast,
a main effect of binding was observed in more anterior and inferior portions
of the lIFG (BA 45/47), right middle frontal and bilateral middle temporal
regions as well as in the cingulate gyrus. Santi and Grodzinsky (2007b)
interpreted these findings as evidence for a working memory (WM) module
that is specific to syntactic movement.
(2) Example stimuli from Santi and Grodzinsky (2007b).
(a) The girl supposes the cunning man hurt Christopher (−MOV,
−BIND)
(b) The girl supposes the cunning man hurt himself (−MOV, +BIND)
(c) Which older man does Julia suppose _ hurt the child (+MOV, −BIND)
(d) Which older man does Julia suppose _ hurt himself (+MOV, +BIND)
At a first glance, these studies therefore appear to support the proposal
that the lIFG – and particularly the POp (BA 44) – is the neural substrate
underlying IM. However, when further results are considered, it becomes
apparent that an explanation along these lines faces a number of empirical
problems. The first, in fact, stems from a second study by Santi and
Grodzinsky (2007a), in which they again compared movement and bind-
ing. Using relative clauses rather than wh-questions, they manipulated the
distance between filler and gap and between reflexive and antecedent in a
parametric design, thus yielding three levels of complexity (distance) for
each type of dependency. They again observed differential activation pat-
terns for movement and binding. However, with the exception of the
binding effect in the right middle frontal gyrus, the localizations of the
previous study did not replicate: an effect of movement was observed in
the anterior lIFG (BA 45), which had previously shown an effect of binding,
and there was no left inferior frontal effect for binding. While Santi and
Grodzinsky (2007a) again conclude “that Broca’s area is specific to the WM
needs of syntactic Movement rather than general to dependency relations”
(p. 16), the inconsistency of the results across the two studies appears
rather problematic for the assumption of a movement-specific neural
substrate within (a subregion of) the lIFG.
A second empirical challenge for the proposal that IM correlates with
activation in the (POp of the) lIFG stems from a range of further studies on
the processing of word order variations in German (Bornkessel et al. 2005;
Grewe et al. 2005; Grewe et al. 2006; Bornkessel-Schlesewsky et al. 2009).
These experiments examined a number of factors which are known to
influence argument order in the German middlefield (i.e. the medial por-
tion of the German clause) and found that all of them (see (3) for a list)
modulate activation within the left POp.
264 M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y
(3) Linearization parameters that have been shown to modulate activation
of the left POp in German (“>” should be interpreted as “precedes”)
a. NOM > DAT > ACC
b. pronoun > non-pronominal argument
c. higher-ranking thematic role > lower-ranking thematic role
d. animate > inanimate
e. definite/specific > indefinite/unspecific
Crucially, not all of the linearization parameters in (3) (see, for example,
Lenerz 1977; Müller 1999) can be derived via movement (IM). Accordingly,
many recent theoretical accounts of word order in the German middlefield
appeal to Optimality Theory in order to derive the application of these
parameters (e.g. Müller 1999; Heck 2000). The clearest case is perhaps that
of the animacy scale, which was examined in an fMRI study by Grewe et al.
(2006) using sentence conditions such as (4).
(4) Example stimuli from Grewe et al. (2006)
a. Dann wurde der Mantel dem Arzt gestohlen.
then was [the coat]nom [the doctor]dat stolen
“Then the coat was stolen from the doctor.”
b. Dann wurde dem Arzt der Mantel gestohlen.
then was [the doctor]dat [the coat]nom stolen
c. Dann wurde der Polizist dem Arzt vorgestellt.
then was [the policeman]nom [the doctor]dat introduced
“Then the policeman was introduced to the doctor.”
d. Dann wurde dem Arzt der Polizist vorgestellt.
then was [the doctor]DAT
[the policeman]NOM
introduced
Grewe and colleagues observed increased left POp activation for sentences
such as (4a) in comparison to (4b), i.e. increased activation for subject-initial
sentences in comparison to their object-initial counterparts. They attributed this
pattern of results to the violation of the animacy-based linearization
principle (3d) in (4a) but not (4b). (Crucially, note that all sentences
were grammatical. “Violation” in the sense used here is thus to be under-
stood as the violation of a preference rather than of an inviolable syntac-
tic rule.) A control comparison between sentences with two animate
arguments (4c/d) did not reveal any inferior frontal activation differ-
ences. This result is very difficult to derive via movement: a movement-
based explanation of the difference between (4a) and (4b) would need to
assume that the dative-initial order in (4b) is the base order, with (4a)
derived via an additional movement operation. While such a proposal
has indeed been advanced for passivized ditransitive sentences such as
those in (4) (e.g. Fanselow, 2000), it entails that (4c) and (4d) differ in the
same way, since animacy is not generally considered a determining
factor of an argument’s base position. Thus, the fact that (4a) shows
increased POp activation in comparison to (4b) while there is no
Computational primitives in syntax 265
concomitant difference between (4c) and (4d) calls a movement-based
analysis of Grewe et al’s (2006) findings into question.
It is important to note that the findings by Grewe et al. (2006) are not an
exception. Rather, they form part of a highly systematic overall data
pattern, in which the violation of any of the linearization principles in
(3) engenders increased activation in the left POp. These findings suggest
that the POp engages in aspects of sentence-level sequencing which go
beyond those aspects of linear order that can be captured via movement
(IM). Thus, by assuming an IM-based specificity of this region, we would
miss an important generalization, namely that the POp appears to play a
relatively general sequence processing role in language. We shall return to
this issue in more detail in Section 14.4 below.
In summary, while a functional-neuroanatomical dissociation based
on the distinction between IM and EM may appear appealing at first
blush, the full range of neuroimaging findings shows that this proposal
is empirically problematic. Rather, it seems to us that the assumption of a
single syntactic operation which serves to combine elements to form
larger constituents (Merge or some similar operation) is a more promising
candidate for a neuroanatomically supported primitive of syntactic com-
putation. The question of how the anatomical differences observed by
Friederici and colleagues might be alternatively derived will be discussed
in Section 14.4.2.
14.2.3 Uniﬁcation: establishing syntactic representations via
structure sharing and feature matching
Beyond the combination of elements, syntax also involves the matching of
features between the elements that are combined. This is apparent in
phenomena such as agreement (e.g. between subject and verb or between
determiner, adjective, and noun) or a head’s designation of the properties
of its complement. Indeed, some syntactic operations which serve to
combine elements, such as unification, also incorporate aspects of feature
matching: unification essentially involves structure sharing between con-
stituents (Pollard and Sag 1994) and this presupposes that the properties of
the shared structure match (or, if the shared structure is more highly
specified in one of the constituents, that the properties do not conflict).
In contrast to Merge and Move (or EM and IM), unification is a declarative
rather than a derivational operation, hence the concept of “structure
sharing.”
Unification can be used to build up structured syntactic representations
(e.g. in HPSG, Pollard and Sag 1994; or in the unification-based parsing
model by Vosse and Kempen 2000); it can also serve to establish corre-
spondences between representations from different linguistic subdo-
mains (as assumed, for example, in Lexical Functional Grammar,
Bresnan 2001; or in Jackendoff’s interface model, Jackendoff 2002; for a
266 M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y
neurolinguistic perspective, see Hagoort 2003). As part of his Memory,
Unification and Control (MUC) framework, Hagoort (2003, 2005) proposes
that the lIFG provides the neural “unification space” for language, i.e.
subserves the unification of lexicalist syntactic frames (i.e. precompiled
partial tree structures that are attached to individual lexical items rather
than established via the application of abstract syntactic rules). As evi-
dence for the link between unification and the lIFG, Hagoort and col-
leagues (Snijders et al. 2009) present findings which show increased
posterior lIFG activation for syntactically ambiguous vs. unambiguous
sentences (i.e. for sentences with a larger range of unification options;
for other reports of a correlation between syntactic ambiguity and the
lIFG, see Fiebach, Vos, and Friederici 2004; Stowe et al. 2004; Bornkessel
et al. 2005; Novick, Trueswell, and Thompson-Schill 2005). For ambiguous
words (involving a category ambiguity between noun and verb), by con-
trast, the authors reported an activation increase in posterior temporal
cortex, which they interpret as supporting the retrieval of syntactic frames
from memory.
Overall, the unification-based perspective, in which syntactic
structure-building proceeds via only a single computational operation,
provides a clear parallel to the most recent Minimalist proposals (see
above), in which Merge is viewed as the core syntactic operation, though
the two differ with regard to some of the specific computational details.
However, the concept of unification is clearly broader than syntax, since
it provides a basis for the association between representations from
different linguistic subdomains. In this way, Hagoort’s account views
the lIFG as a region that supports general combinatory processes in
language comprehension and production. In addition, however, he pro-
poses that there may be a functional “gradient” across the lIFG which
differentiates between the linguistic domains to which unification
applies: while the most posterior portion of the lIFG (POp) and adjoining
ventral premotor cortex (ventral PMC) are thought to support phonologi-
cal unification, the central part of the lIFG (PTr and POp) is the locus of
syntactic unification, and the most anterior part of the lIFG (POr and PTr)
underlies semantic unification (Hagoort 2005).
In summary, the unification-based perspective provides an alternative
view on the computational primitives underlying the neurobiology of
syntax (and language as a whole) to the Merge-based perspective. In advo-
cating this view, Hagoort and his colleagues have committed very strongly
to the position that the lIFG serves as a unification space for language.
Thus, while serving a clearly language-related function during language
processing, this cortical region is thought to play a role that goes beyond
syntax per se, but rather encompasses all linguistic domains. As will be
discussed in more detail in Section 14.4, however, this perspective is some-
what at odds with findings which suggest that the functional role of the
lIFG in language is broader still, i.e. that it may reflect domain-general
Computational primitives in syntax 267
processes of cognitive control rather than mechanisms of linguistic
structure-building. For a further and more detailed discussion of the neu-
ral correlates of morphosyntactic features such as case marking and agree-
ment, see Bornkessel-Schlesewsky and Schlesewsky (this volume).
14.3 Establishing long-distance dependencies
The phenomenon which Chomsky (2005: 12) described as the “familiar
displacement property of language” in the quote cited in Subsection 14.2.2
above has attracted a great deal of attention in the psycholinguistic and
neurolinguistic literature – indeed, much more so than the basic combi-
natory properties described in the preceding section. Thus, a vast range of
studies has sought to determine how the brain deals with long-distance
dependencies, i.e. relations between non-adjacent elements. The fascina-
tion with such dependencies and our neural language system’s ability to
interpret language in spite of them has been fueled further by the fact that,
at least under certain circumstances, they are potentially unbounded (see
example 5 for a familiar illustration).
(5) a. Peter likes Mary
b. Whom does Peter like __?
c. Whom did Sam say that Peter likes __?
While the sentences (5b/c) involve the same relation between like and Mary
as (5a), the two elements that form part of this relation are no longer
adjacent to one another. Moreover, though the argument whom is still
the grammatical object and the Theme of the verb like, it does not occur
in the typical syntactic position for direct objects in English, namely right-
adjacent to the verb. Rather, it occupies the sentence-initial position,
which could also host other types of arguments (e.g. subjects, indirect
objects). In short, linear order does not transparently reflect the under-
lying hierarchical structure in sentences of this type. How, then, does the
processing system manage to compute this underlying structure, espe-
cially since it cannot “know” in advance at what point in the surface string
to expect the argument’s underlying position?8
From the perspective of functional neuroanatomy, empirical investiga-
tions into the processing of long-distance dependencies have, perhaps
unsurprisingly, focused largely on the role of Broca’s region (i.e. the POp
and PTr of the lIFG). For example, recall from Section 14.2.2 that Santi and
Grodzinsky (2007a, 2007b) reported a correlation between long-distance
dependencies and activation within the lIFG (though, somewhat trou-
blingly, the specific localization of this activation within the lIFG was not
consistent across studies; see above). Interestingly, their experiments sug-
gest that the lIFG is sensitive to both the presence of an (additional)
dependency of this type and to the distance spanned by that dependency.
268 M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y
Indeed, the positive correlation between dependency distance and lIFG
activation is one of the best investigated phenomena in the cognitive
neuroscience of language. It has been demonstrated, for example, in con-
trasts between object and subject relative clauses (e.g. The reporter that the
senator attacked admitted the error vs. The reporter that attacked the senator
admitted the error, from King and Just 1991), since object relatives involve
a longer dependency between the relative pronoun and the base position
of the argument to which it refers (for English, e.g. Stromswold et al. 1996;
Caplan, Alpert, and Waters 1999; Constable et al. 2004; for German,
Fiebach et al. 2004).9
Similar results have been obtained in comparisons
between sentences with object relative clauses and other control condi-
tions (e.g., in English, conjoined active sentences such as The reporter
attacked the senator and admitted the error, Just et al. 1996; Keller, Carpenter,
and Just 2001; or, in Hebrew, sentences involving a complement clause
rather than a relative clause, Ben-Shachar et al. 2003).
In a second class of studies, the processing of long-distance depend-
encies was examined by means of wh-questions; as in the studies on
relative clause processing, these experiments typically manipulated the
length of the dependency by comparing subject and object questions and
by introducing intervening material (for English: Cooke et al. 2001; for
German: Fiebach et al. 2005). Crucially, both of these studies found that left
inferior frontal activation was tied to the combination of an object ques-
tion and a long filler–gap distance (introduced via intervening material).
This central role of distance has led a number of researchers to conclude
that, rather than playing a central syntactic role, the lIFG supports the
working memory mechanisms that are required for the processing of long-
distance dependencies (e.g. Caplan et al. 2000; Kaan and Swaab 2002;
Fiebach et al. 2004; Müller and Basho 2004; Fiebach et al. 2005). (For an
alternative account of the findings by Fiebach et al. 2005, see Bornkessel
et al. 2005.)
A structural explanation for the role of the lIFG in the processing of long-
distance dependencies also appears unlikely in view of the finding that the
increased activation for object vs. subject relative clauses in this region is
tied to certain conditions on the animacy of the sentential arguments.
More specifically, Chen et al. (2006) found that, when the head noun of the
relative clause is inanimate and the relative clause subject is animate (e.g.
The wood that the man chopped heated the cabin) there is no longer a measur-
able activation difference between the two relative clause types in the lIFG.
This finding can be explained neither in terms of syntactic properties nor
with reference to working memory demands. A further problem lies in the
fact that the locus of the activation within the lIFG is not consistent across
studies (ranging from anterior and inferior portions of the lIFG in Cooke
and colleagues’ study to posterior portions of the lIFG in Fiebach and
colleagues’ results). In addition, while manipulations of this type some-
times also engender activation in superior temporal regions (Just et al.
Computational primitives in syntax 269
1996; Keller et al. 2001; Ben-Shachar et al. 2003; Ben-Shachar et al. 2004;
Constable et al. 2004; Fiebach et al. 2005), these temporal activations were
not observable in several other experiments (Stromswold et al. 1996;
Caplan et al. 1999; Caplan et al. 2000; Fiebach et al. 2004).
A second type of problem with regard to the neural correlates of non-
local dependencies concerns the correspondence between theoretical
assumptions and empirical findings. Recall from Section 14.2.2 above
that Grodzinsky and colleagues argue for a movement-based specialization
of (subregions) of Broca’s area (Grodzinsky 2000; Ben-Shachar et al. 2003;
Ben-Shachar et al. 2004; Grodzinsky and Friederici 2006; Santi and
Grodzinsky 2007a; Santi and Grodzinsky 2007b; Grodzinsky and Santi
2008). In fact, in several publications, Grodzinsky and colleagues have
rendered their proposal even more specific by restricting it to A-bar move-
ment. Empirically, this proposal was motivated by Ben-Shachar et al.’s
(2004) findings on Hebrew, which showed increased lIFG activation for
object topicalization (i.e. the contrast between object–subject–verb and
subject–verb–object orders) but not for dative shift (i.e. the contrast
between subject–verb–indirect object–direct object and subject–verb–
direct object–indirect object orders). Ben-Shachar and colleagues argue
that, since dative shift involves A-movement (if it is modelled in terms of
movement at all), the correct neurolinguistic generalization is that the
lIFG supports the processing of A-bar movement. Conceptually, this makes
a lot of sense given the data discussed above: only A-bar movement yields
unbounded dependencies, while A-movement does not. There is, however,
an empirical problem. Recall from Section 14.2.2 that word order permu-
tations in the German middlefield (“scrambling”) reliably engender acti-
vation in the POp of the lIFG. For reasons of parsimony, it obviously
appears appealing to derive these results by the same mechanisms used
to explain the lIFG activation for word order variations in Hebrew. Yet, the
theoretical syntactic literature is by no means in agreement as to whether
German scrambling should be treated as A-bar movement (e.g. Grewendorf
and Sabel 1999), A-movement (e.g. Fanselow 1990; Haider and Rosengren
2003), as displaying properties of both A and A-bar movement (Webelhuth
1989) or as base generated (e.g. Fanselow 2001). Moreover, even if one
follows Grewendorf and Sabel in assuming that German scrambling
should be analyzed in terms of A-bar movement, another problem arises:
these authors assume that clause-bound scrambling in Japanese differs
from scrambling in German in that it is best analyzed as A-movement.
Yet, like scrambling in German and topicalization in Hebrew, scrambling
in Japanese has also been shown to lead to lIFG activation (Kinno,
Kawamura, Shioda, and Sakai 2008). Thus, restrictions to particular types
of movement do not appear to provide a coherent explanation for the full
range of word order findings in the neuroimaging literature. This further
corroborates the conclusion drawn in Section 14.2.2 that the assumption
of a specialization of (subregions of) the lIFG for movement-based
270 M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y
dependencies (Santi and Grodzinsky 2007a; Santi and Grodzinsky 2007b) is
empirically problematic.10
In summary, as is apparent from the discussion in this section, the
neural correlates of long-distance dependency processing are subject to a
range of influencing factors, many of which are not syntactic in nature.
Furthermore, research focusing specifically on syntactic factors (particu-
larly movement) has revealed inconsistencies in the mapping between
theoretical assumptions and empirical results. We thus conclude that,
even though long-distance dependencies have played a major role in the
literature on the neurocognition of language, it appears unlikely that the
findings in question are suited to revealing brain correlates of computa-
tional primitives in syntax.
14.4 Sequencing revisited: Consequences for lIFG function
Having discussed the processing of unbounded dependencies, let us now
return to the issue of sequencing (i.e. word order) more generally. While
word order variations have typically been studied with the aim of examin-
ing the neural correlates of movement or unbounded dependencies, the
preceding sections have shown that neither of these two notions appears
to constitute a suitable computational primitive of syntax that can be
consistently tied to a particular neural substrate. Should this, then, be
taken to imply that the lIFG activations discussed in the preceding sections
are not syntax-related at all? We believe that existing neuroimaging find-
ings on word order permutations in simple declarative sentences (i.e.
neither in relative clauses nor in wh-questions) are suited to shedding
further light on this question. In the following subsection, we will there-
fore describe some of these additional findings, before turning to the
broader consequences associated with them.
14.4.1 A gradient of sequence processing within lIFG
Firstly, recall from Section 14.2.2 that a range of experiments on word
order permutations in the German middlefield has revealed fine-grained
word order-related activation changes in the POp (Röder et al. 2002;
Bornkessel et al. 2005; Grewe et al. 2005; Friederici et al. 2006b; Grewe
et al. 2006; Grewe et al. 2007; Bornkessel-Schlesewsky et al. 2009). In this
section, we will now describe a second observation, namely that different
sequencing demands appear to engender activation in different subparts
of the lIFG. Furthermore, we will discuss how a sequencing-based per-
spective on lIFG function in language comprehension can derive these
observations.
While the results discussed in Section 14.2.2 showed a very robust
correlation between the processing of word order variations and the
Computational primitives in syntax 271
POp, there are some indications that word order-related activation
changes in simple sentences may also show activation maxima in the
PTr (Bahlmann et al. 2007 for German, Ben-Shachar et al. 2004 for
Hebrew, Kinno et al. 2008 for Japanese). Notably, all of these studies
(see 6–8 for examples) differed from those described in Section 14.2.2 in
that they involved object fronting to the clause-initial position (all three
studies contrasted object-before-subject with subject-before-object
orders) rather than argument order permutations within a clause-
medial region (the German “middlefield”). This observation led
Bornkessel-Schlesewsky and Schlesewsky (2009a) to speculate that the
different activation maxima may “be somehow related to the position-
ing of the object within the overall clause” (Bornkessel-Schlesewsky
and Schlesewsky 2009a: 152), i.e. to the difference between word
order permutations targeting a clause-medial vs. the clause-initial
position.
(6) Example stimuli from Bahlmann et al. (2007)
a. Object–verb–subject
Den begabten Sänger entdeckte während der Weihnachtsfeier
[the gifted singer]acc discovered during the christmas.party
der talentierte Gitarrist.
[the talented guitar.player]nom
“The talented guitar player discovered the gifted singer during the
Christmas party.”
b. Subject–verb–object (control)
Der begabte Sänger entdeckte während der Weihnachtsfeier
[the gifted singer]nom discovered during the christmas.party
den talentierten Gitarristen.
[the talented guitar.player]acc
“The gifted singer discovered the talented guitar player during the
Christmas party.”
(7) Example stimuli from Ben-Shachar et al. (2004)
a. Object–subject–verb
‘et ha-sefer ha-’adom John natan la-professor me-oxford
[ACC the-book the – red] John gave [to-the-professor from-Oxford]
“John gave the red book to the professor from Oxford.”
b. Subject–verb–object (control)
John natan ‘et ha-sefer ha-’adom la-professor me-oxford
John gave [ACC the-book the -red] [to-the-professor from-Oxford]
“John gave the red book to the professor from Oxford.”
(8) Example stimuli from Kinno et al. (2008). Note that this study
employed a sentence–picture matching task; the geometrical shapes
in the sentences thus refer to stick figures with heads depicted as the
respective shapes.
272 M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y
a. Object–subject–verb
▢-o ◯-ga oshiteru
▢-ACC ◯-NOM pushes
“◯ pushes ▢”
b. Subject–object–verb (control)
◯-ga ▢-o oshiteru
◯-NOM ▢-ACC pushes
“◯ pushes ▢”
In order to examine this apparent distinction between the clause-initial
position and the clause-medial region more closely, Bornkessel-
Schlesewsky et al. (2012) directly contrasted clause-initial and clause-medial
word order permutations in German in a within-participants design. The
critical sentence conditions used in this study are illustrated in example (9).
(9) Example stimuli from Bornkessel-Schlesewsky et al. (2012). Only
the object-initial conditions are shown; in the subject-initial
controls, the position of subject and object was interchanged.
a. Object-before-subject order – clause-medial
Peter behauptet, dass den Arzt der Lehrer verfolgt hat.
Peter claims that [the doctor]acc [the teacher]nom pursued has
“Peter claims that the doctor pursued the teacher.”
b. Object-before-subject order – clause-initial
Peter behauptet, den Arzt hat der Lehrer verfolgt.
Peter claims [the doctor]acc has [the teacher]nom pursued
“Peter claims the doctor pursued the teacher.”
Bornkessel-Schlesewsky et al. (2012) indeed observed activation differ-
ences within different subregions of the 1IFG for the different sentence
types employed: whereas posterior portions of the 1IFG (primarily the
POp) showed a main effect of argument order (higher activation for object-
initial vs. subject-initial word orders), more anterior regions of the 1IFG
(including the PTr) showed effects of both argument order and sentence
type (higher activation for object-initial vs. subject-initial word orders and
for sentences with an argument in the clause-initial position of the embed-
ded clause vs. sentences in which the embedded clause was introduced by
a complementizer). Thus, rather than showing a selective response to
object-initial orders targeting the clause-initial region, anterior portions
of the 1IFG generally responded to the positioning of an argument in the
clause-initial position (in addition to the relative positioning of subject and
object). Bornkessel-Schlesewsky et al. (2012) interpreted this finding with
reference to the special information structural status of the clause-initial
position: by default, an argument residing in this position is interpreted
as the sentence topic, i.e. the entity which the sentence is about (see,
for example, Frey 2007 and the references cited therein). In the presence
of a discourse context, this sentence topic might also be expected to
Computational primitives in syntax 273
correspond to the discourse topic, i.e. to the entity under discussion in the
discourse. It is also typically the subject of the sentence rather than the
object (Keenan 1976). Bornkessel-Schlesewsky and colleagues thus argued
for a sequencing gradient within the lIFG, with more anterior regions
engaging in “aboutness-based sequencing” (i.e. determining which argu-
ment is to reside in the position which correlates with aboutness-based
topicality) and more posterior regions engaging in “prominence-based
sequencing.” Prominence-based sequencing is based on the inherent prop-
erties of the arguments and the prominence scales in (3), which, in addi-
tion to influencing argument order in a range of different languages
(Tomlin 1986), are known as determinants of morphosyntactic properties
in many languages of the world (see, for example, Comrie 1989;
Croft 2003).11
Thus, while sequencing options based on prominence features depend
on the properties of the arguments themselves and the relation between
them; sequencing options based on aboutness depend on what the sen-
tence is construed to be about and are thus not closely linked to individual
argument properties. The findings by Bornkessel-Schlesewsky et al. (2012)
thus suggest that different types of sequencing may be dissociable from
the perspective of functional neuroanatomy.
14.4.2 Broader implications: Sequencing and a hierarchy
of cognitive control signals
One possible interpretation of the neuroanatomical dissociations between
different types of linguistic sequencing is that they reflect distinct linguis-
tic operations. However, Bornkessel-Schlesewsky et al. (2012) suggest that
there is a more parsimonious – and hence preferable – interpretation of
these findings via mechanisms of cognitive control (i.e. domain-general
cognitive operations that serve to choose between competing stimuli or
task requirements). Specifically, Koechlin and colleagues describe the
hierarchy of cognitive control processes and their implementation in
frontal cortex summarized in (10) (Koechlin, Ody, and Kouneiher 2003;
Koechlin and Summerfield 2007; Kouneiher, Charron, and Koechlin 2009).
For an illustration of the assumed functional-neuroanatomical gradient
and its potential application to language processing, see Figure 14.2.
(10) Hierarchy of cognitive control cues in frontal cortex according to
Koechlin and colleagues (the interpretation of the different control
cues in terms of levels of locality is our own)
a. Stimulus-driven control draws upon the most basic type of
control cue and is thought to be implemented by premotor cortex
(i.e. the most posterior portion of the prefrontal control gradient).
It consists of simple stimulus–response mappings, such as the
tendency to answer the telephone when it rings. This type of
274 M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y
control cue is thus closely associated with the critical stimulus
itself and is therefore relatively “local.”
b. Contextual control hierarchically dominates stimulus-driven
control and implies that stimulus–response mappings can be
determined or overridden by the current episode within which
an individual finds him-/herself. For example, when visiting a
friend’s house, we may be less likely to pick up the phone when
it rings as opposed to when we are at home. Neuroanatomically,
contextual control correlates with more anterior regions of fron-
tal cortex than stimulus-driven control (e.g. with posterior por-
tions of the lIFG such as the POp). This type of control cue is less
local than stimulus-driven control, since it requires assessment of
the stimulus in relation to the current context in which it occurs.
c. Episodic control involves the possibility of overriding contextual
control with reference to past events. For example, if the friend
who I am currently visiting asks me to answer the phone because
he/she is working but expecting an important call, I will do so in
spite of the contextual control cue “at a friend’s house.” This type of
control, which is associated with even more anterior portions of
frontal cortex (typically BA 46, Koechlin et al. 2003; Koechlin and
Summerfield 2007), is again less local than contextual control
because it involves relating the current stimulus (and context,
possibly) to a distal event that took place at some point in the past.
PMC = Premotor cortex
POp = Pars opercularis
PTr = Pars triangularis
POr = Pars orbitalis
PMC
POp
PTr
POr
local (phrasal) sequencing (head-complement)
stimulus-based control (head projects; determines
complement)
prominence-based sequencing
contextual control (relational comparison of current
element to current sentence context; inherent features)
aboutness-based sequencing
episodic control (relational comparison of current element to discourse
context / intention of speaker; external (past) features)
pragmatic appropriateness (sequencing?)
branching control (dynamic switching between different control
situations)
Figure 14.2 Schematic illustration of how the hierarchy of cognitive control processes
assumed by Koechlin and colleagues (Koechlin et al. 2003; Koechlin and Summerﬁeld
2007) can be applied to different aspects of linguistic sequencing.
Computational primitives in syntax 275
d. Branching control is the most abstract type of control within the
hierarchy and correlates with the most anterior portions of pre-
frontal cortex (frontopolar cortex corresponding to lateral BA 10). It
permits switches between different types of control scenarios. For
example, assuming (as in c above) that my friend asked me to
answer his/her phone while staying at his/her house, he/she could
temporarily undo this request by stating that he/she would like to
take the next call him/herself because it is going to be particularly
important. I would then refrain from answering the phone the next
time it rings (effectively disenabling the currently active episodic
control cue), but would return to “answering mode” with the next
phone call (thereby reenabling the episodic control cue).
Bornkessel-Schlesewsky et al. (2012) argue that the linguistic sequencing
gradient along the anterior–posterior dimension of the lIFG precisely
correlates with this hierarchy of cognitive control. Prominence-based
sequencing can be described as requiring contextual control, because the
prominence properties of the current stimulus element must be assessed
in relation to the (sentence-internal) context in which they occur, i.e. with
respect to the prominence status of the coarguments. Aboutness-based
sequencing, by contrast, is more closely associated with episodic control,
because it requires a link to a distal (sentence-external) event: the broader
discourse and the referents under discussion in it or the speaker’s inten-
tion with regard to what the sentence is about. Accordingly, aboutness-
based sequencing correlates with activation in more anterior portions of
the lIFG than prominence-based sequencing. This proposal thus shows
how the notion that the lIFG engages in linguistic sequencing can be
extended to encompass different types of sequencing cues and how it
can be linked to broader cognitive processing mechanisms. In this regard,
it shows clear parallels to Thompson-Schill and colleagues’ cognitive con-
trol approach to lIFG function in language (e.g. Thompson-Schill et al. 1997;
Novick et al. 2005; January, Trueswell, and Thompson-Schill 2009), but
makes the additional claim that the abstractness (or locality) of the cur-
rently relevant control cue may play a crucial role in determining local-
ization within frontal cortex.
Crucially for present purposes, the proposal advanced in Bornkessel-
Schlesewsky et al. (2012) can be extended even further. Recall from
Section 14.2 that the processes of local phrase structure building which
comprise “local syntax” in Friederici’s account can be described (in pro-
cessing terms) as the analysis of a sequence A B into an overarching
constituent C, with the characteristics of C determined either by A or B
depending on their lexical properties (in terms of Merge, either A or B
“projects”). This type of lexically determined projection appears compat-
ible with the notion of stimulus-driven control: whether an element pro-
jects or not is essentially a stimulus-inherent property and can thus be
276 M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y
described in terms of an (abstract) stimulus–response mapping (the
response being a linguistic analysis rather than a behavioral reaction in
this case). This assumption fits perfectly with Friederici and colleagues’
empirical observations, which suggest that local structure building of this
type correlates with activation in the DFO, a region that is cytoarchitectur-
ally comparable to premotor cortex rather than to the lateral surface of the
IFG (Friederici 2004; Friederici et al. 2006a; Friederici 2009). From this
perspective, the local aspect of Merge (i.e. the single combination of two
elements to form a larger constituent) amounts to the use of linguistic
sequence information under the most local conditions of cognitive control
(stimulus-driven control) and thereby correlates with activation in the
most posterior portions of prefrontal cortex.12
By contrast, word order
variations in simple sentences (prominence-based sequencing) call for a
relational comparison between the properties of the current stimulus and
the (sentence-internal) context in which it is encountered and thereby
require a less local form of control, namely contextual control. They thus
correlate with activation in a slightly more anterior region of frontal
cortex, typically the POp.
How does embedding, which, according to Friederici and colleagues’
studies (e.g. Friederici et al. 2006a; Bahlmann et al. 2008; Makuuchi et al.
2009) shows similar neuroanatomical correlates to word order variations,
fit into this picture? Clearly, embedding requires a less local form of
control than phrase-internal structure building since it is not simply
dependent on the inherent properties of the current stimulus. Rather, it
resembles prominence-based sequencing in that it requires a comparison
between the properties of the embedded clause and that of the main
clause. This relational comparison is required, on the one hand, because
only certain types of phrases can be embedded recursively (sentences and
noun phrases, but not, for example, prepositional phrases). On the other
hand, embedding at the sentence level also involves sequencing, since
many languages allow embedded clauses (complement clauses, relative
clauses) to be “extraposed” to a sentence-final position, i.e. to a position
following the main clause. Whether an embedded clause is extraposed or
not depends, for example, on its “heaviness,” namely on the relative
length of the embedded clause in comparison to the main clause (e.g.
Hawkins 1994). Taken together, embedding shows very similar properties
to prominence-based sequencing in that both require relational compa-
risons between the properties of multiple elements within a sentence. As
discussed above, this process can be described in terms of contextual
control.
An explanation along these lines thus derives the activation differences
between sentences with and without embedding (Makuuchi et al. 2009)
without requiring any reference to the notion of recursion. It also explains
why embedding and (prominence-based) word order variations in simple
sentences cluster together in neuroanatomical terms – as noted above,
Computational primitives in syntax 277
Friederici’s explanation in terms of hierarchical syntax is problematic in
this regard, since “local structure building” also establishes a hierarchical
syntactic structure via the iterative application of Merge. Moreover, our
account has advantages in terms of parsimony, since it draws upon mech-
anisms which also apply to non-linguistic information processing and
shows how these can be applied to the processing of and extraction of
information from linguistic sequences.
14.4.3 The lIFG as an evaluative component
In essence, the sequencing-related information types that were discussed
in the previous sections could be viewed as constraints on the combination of
elements. For example, once again using Merge as an illustration for con-
creteness’ sake, all of the information types under discussion can be
described as constraining which elements are merged with one another.
Depending on the nature of the information source (e.g. element-
inherent information such as the fact that two heads should not be
merged with one another or prominence-/aboutness-based information
on the order of constituents within a clause etc.), these constraints
appear to correlate with differing degrees of cognitive control.
However, does this imply that sequence-related lIFG activation should
also be viewed as a correlate of an operation such as Merge, i.e. a prim-
itive of syntactic computation that serves to combine elements to form
larger constituents? Here, we suggest an alternative interpretation,
namely that the frontal activations associated with sequence processing
correlate with the evaluation of linguistic sequences (i.e. essentially of
the output of Merge or some equivalent operation) rather than with
incremental syntactic structuring per se.13
The proposal that lIFG activation may not directly reflect syntactic (or
other linguistic) computations has been put forward by a number of
scholars. As already noted in section 14.2.1, the conspicuous absence of
increased lIFG activation for sentences as opposed to word lists has cast
some doubt on whether the lIFG is indeed central to syntactic processing
(e.g. Stowe, Haverkort, and Zwarts 2005). Indeed, several studies even
reported increased lIFG activation for word lists in contrast to sentences
(Mazoyer et al. 1993; Stowe et al. 1998) or for sentences involving pseudo-
words in comparison to normal sentences (Friederici et al. 2000). This
appears to suggest that, rather than supporting “normal sentence process-
ing,” the lIFG only steps in when processing demands increase in some
way.14
A somewhat similar line of argumentation has been advanced by
proponents of a cognitive control-based account of lIFG function in lan-
guage (e.g. Thompson-Schill et al. 1997; Novick et al. 2005; Thompson-
Schill, Bedny, and Goldberg 2005; January et al. 2009). These studies dem-
onstrated that lIFG activation is modulated by demands on the “selection”
of representations from a set of competing alternatives as is required, for
278 M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y
example, in ambiguous sentences or in the naming of objects with a
number of possible labels. Findings such as these suggest that the activa-
tion of this cortical region is not crucially tied to specific linguistic struc-
turing operations. Finally, on the basis of results showing that lIFG
activation can also be observed in tasks related to action observation
(Buccino et al. 2001) or motor imagery (Binkofski et al. 2000), it has been
suggested that the lIFG provides a supramodal basis for the hierarchical
combination of elements (e.g. in language or music) that was co-opted onto
or extended from the combination of motor commands (Fadiga, Craighero,
and D’Ausilio 2009).
14.5 Syntactic primitives and the brain? Consequences
and perspectives
The neuroimaging evidence reviewed in the preceding sections suggests
that, at present, the only syntactic operation which appears to have pos-
sible neurobiological correlates is Merge or something akin to it. However,
what does it actually mean to say that Merge, as an abstract linguistic
operation, is implemented in the brain? As already noted in the introduc-
tion, Chomsky envisages Merge as an operation that is time-independent
and similar considerations hold with regard to structure-building opera-
tions in other theories of grammar. By contrast, all brain correlates of
linguistic structuring necessarily reflect how this takes place in time,
since communication can never be time-independent. How can this dis-
crepancy be resolved, assuming that Merge is the syntactic primitive with
the highest degree of neurobiological plausibility?
Essentially, this problem takes us back to the classic distinction
between a competence system and its application during performance
or, in other words, the relation between the grammar and the parser.
Several approaches in the literature have concerned themselves with
precisely this issue. Most generally, two perspectives can be distin-
guished: one which assumes a close link of some kind between the
grammar and the parser (Hawkins 1994; Phillips 1996; Hawkins 2004)
and one which maintains that the two are independent but that gram-
mars have adapted to be “parser friendly” (Haider 2012). Perhaps the
most widely known position is that adopted by Hawkins (1994, 2004),
who assumes that grammars are shaped by ease of processing. From this
perspective, languages tend to grammaticalize those structures that are
less complex and more efficient to process than their competing counter-
parts according to a variety of metrics (e.g. the number of elements
within which constituents can be recognized). However, since
Hawkins’s metrics apply at the level of constituents and above or refer
more generally to dependency relations between particular types of
elements, they do not straightforwardly apply to basic combinatory
Computational primitives in syntax 279
operations such as Merge. Phillips (1996), by contrast, offers an interest-
ing possible solution to the “time problem” applied to Merge: he pro-
poses that the parser and the grammar are one and the same, the only
difference being that the parser utilizes grammatical principles under
the restriction of a particular amount of resources. Specifically, he posits
that: “Apart from the idealization of unbounded resources, grammatical-
ity and parsability are just the same” (Phillips 1996: 14). In order to make
this possible, grammatical structure-building is assumed to apply from
left to right (“Merge right”), as is illustrated schematically in Figure 14.3.
As is apparent from Figure 14.3, new elements are always merged at the
right edge of the structure in Phillips’s approach, thereby leading to a
preference for right-branching structures. This implies that a sequence of
input elements A–B is initially merged to create an overarching constitu-
ent, but that this sisterhood relation is destroyed again when the next
input element C is integrated into the structure. Phillips (1996, 2003)
shows that, in addition to allowing for the parser to be equated with the
grammar, this assumption also accounts for a range of grammatical facts
such as apparently contradictory results of different types of constitu-
ency tests.
An even stronger grammatical preference for right-branching struc-
tures is assumed by Haider (1992, 2000, 2012). He proposes that Universal
Grammar (UG) incorporates a restriction termed the Basic Branching
Condition (BBC): “Each branching node on a projection line is to the right
of its sister node” (Haider 2012: Chapter 2, italics in original).
This restriction is assumed to have been implemented as a product of
cognitive evolution, as UG adapted to become parser-friendly. Given the
BBC, linear sequences of elements can be unambiguously mapped onto
hierarchical structures, which is not possible given the standard
(non-directional) version of Merge alone. This approach contrasts with
Phillips’s assumptions in that grammar and parser are considered sepa-
rate and that the branching requirement is a strict condition rather than
a mere preference or ambiguity resolution metric. However: “The gram-
mar guarantees easily processable data structures because ease of
processing is one of the selection properties in the history of the
B C
A B
Ω
A
Ω
Δ
Figure 14.3 Illustration of the incremental application of Merge in the approach by Phillips
(1996, 2003).
280 M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y
cognitive evolution of the human language faculty” (Haider 2012).
Incremental structure-building in Haider’s approach is illustrated in
Figure 14.4.
The central contrast between the structure-building steps in Figure 14.4
(Haider’s approach) as opposed to Figure 14.3 (Phillips’s approach) is that
an incoming terminal element need not be merged in the rightmost
position. This only happens when the element (C in Figure 14.4) is the
head of the currently open projection (scenario i). When C is not the head,
an intermediate category (a variable, Θ in the figure) is introduced and
merged with the preceding terminal node (B; scenario ii). Thus, in contrast
to Phillips, Haider does not assume that structure-building necessarily
involves structure creation and destruction.
In summary, the approaches by Phillips (1996, 2003) and Haider (1992,
2000, 2012) demonstrate that, under certain assumptions, Merge can
indeed be compatible with the requirements of online processing. This
provides us with the necessary link between theoretical proposals and
neurobiological findings that was previously missing. As argued by
Haider, one does not even have to give up the distinction between gram-
mar and parser to allow for a (potentially) psychologically and thereby
biologically real Merge operation. This strengthens the assumption that
Merge is a promising candidate for a primitive of syntactic computation
that is implemented in the human brain.
(i) C is head of Ω (ii) C is not head of Ω
A Δ
Ω
A Δ
Ω
A Δ
Ω
A Δ
Ω
B Θ
B
C
Θ
B C
Figure 14.4 Illustration of the incremental application of Merge in the approach by Haider
(1992, 2000, 2012).
Computational primitives in syntax 281
Appendix: List of abbreviations
ATL anterior temporal lobe
BA Brodmann area
EM external merge
DFO deep frontal operculum
IFG inferior frontal gyrus
IM internal merge
l left
MFG middle frontal gyrus
POp pars opercularis (of the inferior frontal gyrus)
POr pars orbitalis (of the inferior frontal gyrus)
pSTG posterior portion of the superior temporal gyrus
pSTS posterior portion of the superior temporal sulcus
PTr pars triangularis (of the left inferior frontal gyrus)
r right
vPMC ventral premotor cortex
WM working memory
282 M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y
15
Computational primitives
in morphology and
possible brain correlates
Ina Bornkessel-Schlesewsky and Matthias Schlesewsky
15.1 Introduction
With regard to questions of computational primitives, morphology is
what might be termed a “special case.” One of the main reasons for this
is that it is a paradigmatic example of an interface domain in linguistics.
As Spencer (1991) puts it in a classic textbook on morphology:
“Morphology is unusual amongst the subdisciplines of linguistics, in
that much of the interest in the subject derives not so much from the
facts of morphology themselves, but from the way that morphology
interacts with and relates to other branches of linguistics, such as pho-
nology and syntax” (Spencer 1991: xii). This raises the question of
whether morphology in fact has any specific computational primitives
of its own or whether it is rather the convergence of several domains that
is most crucial for the explanation of morphological structure.
Conversely, however, one might argue that there is actually a long list
of potential candidates for such computational primitives – or at least for
the way in which morphology is structured and represented. Thus, mor-
phological theorizing is characterized by a range of binary contrasts:
Whatever the theoretical persuasion of the author, an arbitrarily chosen
textbook on morphology is likely to discuss the difference between
derivation and inflection, between syntagmatic and paradigmatic prop-
erties and between regular and irregular morphological forms. All of
these distinctions might thus be considered possible, and plausible,
candidates for the way in which morphological knowledge is organized
in the human brain. In this chapter, by contrast, we will argue that none
of the above-mentioned distinctions appears to offer a satisfactory
account of morphological processing from a neurobiological perspective.
Rather, we propose that morphological representations and computa-
tions require both a broader and a narrower (more fine-grained) perspec-
tive than these macroscopic distinctions suggest. In broader terms,
morphology is characterized by the fact that it is inherently a relational
domain, i.e. one in which the establishment of relations between differ-
ent linguistic units is of primary importance. In this way, morphology
contrasts with the primarily combinatory nature of syntax (see
Schlesewsky and Bornkessel-Schlesewsky, this volume) – a position
that, as we shall see below, is supported by neurophysiological and
neuroanatomical results. In narrower terms, neuroscientific studies of
morphology have revealed a very rich data pattern that emphasizes
the importance of taking fine-grained distinctions into consideration.
For example, though both would be considered to lie within the domain
of inflection, interpretively “empty” phenomena such as agreement
show different brain correlates to interpretively rich ones such as case
marking. In this way, a neuroscientific perspective on morphology sug-
gests that the search for neurobiologically plausible computational prim-
itives in this domain should take place at multiple levels or grain-sizes
and should look beyond traditional linguistic oppositions. In this sense,
the overall data pattern on the brain bases of morphological processing
at present appears to favor an interface-based perspective on morphol-
ogy, in which a range of interacting information types is of primary
importance. By contrast, there appears to be little compelling evidence
that the brain implements specifically morphological computational
primitives.
The remainder of this chapter is organized as follows. In Section 15.2,
we discuss whether there are, in fact, computational primitives in mor-
phology that appear plausible from a neurocognitive perspective and
conclude that there is presently no unequivocal evidence for this
assumption. Subsequently, Section 15.3 reviews research on the two
morphological distinctions that have attracted the most attention in
the literature on the neural bases of morphological processing: regular
versus irregular morphology and inflection versus derivation. Again, we
argue that neither of these two oppositions appears suited to explaining
how morphology is organized in the brain. Having worked through
those factors that, in our view, do not seem to account for the neuro-
biology of morphological processing, Section 15.4 attempts to offer
some more “positive” suggestions regarding the neural representation
and processing of morphology. Here, we argue for the primarily rela-
tional role of morphology, which serves to distinguish it from the com-
binatory nature of syntax, and for the importance of distinguishing
between purely formal and interpretively relevant relations in this
regard. Finally, Section 15.5 offers some conclusions. Note that, since
an introduction to the relevant experimental methods in the neuro-
science of language is beyond the scope of this chapter, we assume
that readers have a basic knowledge of these methods in what follows.
For a recent introduction aimed at a linguistic audience, see Bornkessel-
Schlesewsky and Schlesewsky (2009a, Chapter 2).
284 I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y
15.2 Are there computational primitives in morphology?
This chapter is concerned with computational primitives in morphology
and their possible brain correlates. This would seem to presuppose that
there indeed are computational primitives in this domain and that, conse-
quently, our task is simply to identify them and how they are implemented
in the brain. However, as already outlined briefly above, this is by no means
an uncontested assumption: In cognitive neuroscience, one of the dominat-
ing debates with regard to morphological processing and the role of mor-
phology within the overall language system has focused on whether
morphology should be considered a separable domain or whether it is rather
emergent from the convergence of form (phonology, orthography) and
meaning (semantics) (Seidenberg and Gonnerman 2000). From an empirical
point of view, this discussion essentially came forth from the broader debate
regarding the modularity of language (e.g. Fodor 1983; Rumelhart and
McClelland 1986, amongst many others). However, it is also worth consid-
ering from a theoretical perspective in view of the interface character of
morphology (see above), which raises the question of whether the search for
morphology-specific neural signatures in fact constitutes a realistic goal.
This problem is aggravated by the observation that, in contrast to domains
such as syntax for which all existing theoretical approaches would at least
agree on a basic set of component features (primarily the ability to combine
elements into larger structures), no such consensus exists in morphology.
Thus, in spite of the undisputed status of morphology in linguistic theory
(compounding is clearly a morphological operation in any linguistic theory),
the neurobiological status of purported computational primitives in this
domain appears well worth examining.
15.2.1 Priming studies
Studies seeking to address the question of whether morphological struc-
ture can be isolated in word processing have often used priming para-
digms, i.e. a task in which participants are required to perform a lexical
decision and critical stimuli are preceded by a prime word that is either
unrelated, morphologically related, orthographically related, or semanti-
cally related.1
Results have been mixed. On the one hand, Devlin et al.
(2004) contrasted orthographic (passive – PASS), semantic (sofa – COUCH),
and morphological priming (hunter – HUNT) with a non-related control
(award – MUNCH) in English and concluded that morphological priming
effects in brain activation could be fully explained by the effects of seman-
tic and orthographic priming: morphological priming effects overlapped
with those due to orthography in occipitotemporal (OT) cortex and with
those due to semantics in the middle temporal gyrus (MTG). By contrast,
Bozic et al. (2007) reported priming effects for morphologically related
transparent (bravely – brave) and opaque (archer – arch) words in the left
Computational primitives in morphology 285
inferior frontal gyrus (lIFG). A similar finding, albeit showing activation
modulations in left OT regions, was reported by Gold and Rastle (2007).
This neuroanatomical discrepancy, which may have resulted from the use
of different priming paradigms (delayed vs. masked), is rather disconcert-
ing from the perspective that studies of this type might be suited to
revealing possible computational primitives in morphology. However,
results from Hebrew, a language which – in contrast to English – allows
for clearly separable manipulations of semantic and morphological relat-
edness, again implicate both the lIFG and left OT cortex in morphological
processing using masked priming (Bick, Frost, and Goelman 2010; Bick,
Goelman, and Frost 2011). Here too, however, task-dependence appears to
be an important issue: a similar manipulation involving an overt morpho-
logical relatedness judgment did not reveal activation in the lIFG (Bick,
Goelman, and Frost 2008). Rather, only the left middle frontal gyrus (lMFG)
showed activation in both tasks and in all three studies by Bick and
colleagues (Bick et al. 2008, 2010, 2011), while left OT cortex was impli-
cated in morphological processing only in Bick et al. (2008, 2011). From
these findings, Bick and colleagues conclude that the lIFG, the lMFG, and
left OT cortex are important for the processing of morphological informa-
tion, though with varying degrees of automaticity. They argue that the lIFG
“may be involved in early and automatic morphological processing” (Bick
et al. 2010: 1965).2
The lMFG, by contrast, they regard as being involved in
morphological processing regardless of task and argue for a connection
with lMFG involvement in other grammatical tasks in European lan-
guages, e.g. for the processing of verbs vs. nouns (Shapiro et al. 2001;
Shapiro, Moo, and Caramazza 2006; Cappelletti et al. 2008) and in artificial
grammar processing (Forkstam et al. 2006). Finally, in connection with the
known association between OT cortex and visual word processing (e.g.
Cohen et al. 2000; Price and Devlin 2003; Dehaene et al. 2005), they argue
that “this region is involved in the structural level of morphological pro-
cessing that is mainly morpho-orthographic” (Bick et al. 2011: 2288).
However, though the lIFG and lMFG may show repetition suppression
for morphological relatedness but not for semantic or orthographic relat-
edness in Hebrew, it appears difficult to claim that either of these regions
is specific to morphological processing. While the lIFG has been impli-
cated in the processing of a wealth of grammatical information, this
activation is notoriously non-specific for morphosyntax (see Bornkessel-
Schlesewsky and Schlesewsky 2009a, for a recent review). In fact, it has
even been argued that this region’s involvement in language processing is
extra-linguistic and should rather be explained with reference to more
general cognitive functions such as working memory (Caplan et al. 2000;
Müller, Kleinhans, and Courchesne 2003) or cognitive control (Thompson-
Schill et al. 1997; Thompson-Schill, Bedny, and Goldberg 2005; January,
Trueswell, and Thompson-Schill 2009; Bornkessel-Schlesewsky, Grewe,
and Schlesewsky 2012). It is also known to be activated during action
286 I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y
observation and motor imagery (Pulvermüller and Fadiga 2010, for a
recent review) and in the processing of music (e.g. Maess et al. 2001;
Koelsch et al. 2002), thus leading some researchers to propose that the
lIFG, together with the ventral premotor cortex, is “tuned to detect and
represent complex hierarchical dependencies, regardless of modality and
use” and “that this capacity evolved from motor and premotor functions
associated with action execution and understanding” (Fadiga, Craighero,
and D’Ausilio 2009: 448). Thus, in view of its candidate role as a region that
is involved in the controlled processing of various types of linguistic and
extra-linguistic stimuli, the proposal that the lIFG is crucial for implicit
morphological processing appears rather unlikely. Likewise, lMFG activa-
tion can be observed in a range of linguistic tasks and for a variety of
linguistic and extra-linguistic stimuli and tasks: recent reviews on lan-
guage and the brain note this region’s involvement in semantic processing
(Binder et al. 2009) and word retrieval (Price, 2010), while its potential role
in executive functions was already highlighted in a number of early
reviews on memory and the prefrontal cortex (Owen 1997; D’Esposito
et al. 1998; Smith and Jonides 1999).
These observations raise the question of what the brain activation meas-
ured during the most popular task used to assess morphological process-
ing, the priming paradigm, actually reflects. Masked priming in particular
is often described as a means of accessing automatic or implicit aspects of
word processing. However, what is rarely discussed in this context is that
priming paradigms in fact involve an extremely unnatural setting for
language processing, namely one in which a single word presentation
mode is combined with a meta-linguistic judgment (namely a lexical
decision). This appears particularly problematic in view of the interface-
property of morphology that was already described above.3
Thus, rather
than illuminating how computational primitives of morphological pro-
cessing are implemented by the brain, it is likely that results of this type
are more suited to shedding light on more general cognitive mechanisms
related to task performance. While these may, of course, rely in part on
morphological information, they should not be confused with aspects of
morphological computation proper.
Irrespective of these caveats, however, the set of studies discussed in this
section has produced an interesting result that appears somewhat orthogo-
nal to questions of task. While we have argued that the precise functional
interpretation of the brain activity observed in priming tasks may not be
straightforward, it is nevertheless interesting to note that morphologically
induced activity changes in a particular brain region are only sometimes
accompanied by semantically and/or orthographically induced activity
changes. On the basis of a study with Hebrew-English bilinguals, Bick and
colleagues (2011) raise the intriguing hypothesis that this may be subject to
cross-linguistic variation: while both Hebrew and English showed morpho-
logical priming (repetition suppression) in lIFG and lMFG, this effect was
Computational primitives in morphology 287
modulated by semantic relatedness only in English. They thus argue that
dedicated (i.e. semantically independent) morphological processes may
exist only in some languages (e.g. Hebrew, a language with a rich morphol-
ogy and in which morphological and semantic relatedness of words is
orthogonal) but not in others (e.g. English, in which semantic information
is needed in order for morphological relatedness to be assessed). Similar
conclusions were drawn earlier on the basis of behavioral (priming) results
(for a review, see Plaut and Gonnerman 2000). In view of the more general
functional-neuroanatomical considerations advanced above, this suggests
that whether morphology may independently serve to modulate meta-
linguistic processes such as those required for a lexical-decision task is
language-dependent. However, it has been argued that this pattern of results
does not necessarily implicate a dedicated and separable morphological
processing component even in morphologically rich languages, since con-
nectionist simulations suggest that both types of systems (i.e. morphologi-
cally impoverished and morphologically rich languages) can be processed
with a (single) computational system that does not include morphology as
an independent domain (Plaut and Gonnerman 2000). Nevertheless, as Plaut
and Gonnerman themselves point out, their simulations do not provide a
realistic account of morphological processing in English-type and Hebrew-
type languages and therefore serve more as a “proof of concept” than as a
model. It will thus be interesting to see whether future neuroimaging
experiments using more naturalistic tasks to examine Hebrew-type lan-
guages will reveal neural correlates of morphological processing that have
not been observed in languages such as English or whether the present data
pattern – the finding of similar neural regions, though with differences
regarding the degree of coactivation or interaction between morphology
and semantics – will be shown to generalize.
15.2.2 Morphological decomposition
In an alternative approach to the priming paradigm, a range of studies has
attempted to find evidence for (automatic) morphological decomposition.
The logic behind this type of approach is as follows: if complex words can
be shown to be decomposed into morphemes during language processing,
this would seem to provide compelling evidence for the existence of mor-
phemes as linguistic elements and for combinatory mechanisms that oper-
ate upon them. The earliest studies of this type date back several decades. In
Taft and Forster’s (1975) classic study, for example, participants took longer
to classify pseudowords which were stems of existing words (e.g. juvenate,
from rejuvenate) or composed using existing stems (e.g. dejuvenate) than
pseudowords that were not stems (e.g. pertoire, from repertoire) or incorpo-
rated a non-existing stem (e.g. depertoire). The authors interpreted this result
as evidence for automatic morphological decomposition during word
recognition.
288 I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y
In a similar spirit to Taft and Forster’s original study, McKinnon, Allen,
and Osterhout (2003) conducted an ERP study in which they compared real
words with prefixes and bound stems (sub-mit, re-ceive, dis-cern), pseudo-
words with prefixes and bound stems (pro-mit, ex-ceive, in-cern), morphologi-
cally complex real words (muffler, bookmark) and pseudowords containing
no morphemes (flermuf). Since phonologically legal pseudowords are
known to elicit larger N400 effects than existing words (e.g. Bentin,
McCarthy, and Wood 1985; Holcomb and Neville 1990; Bentin et al.
1999), they expected to observe an increased N400 effect for pseudowords
consisting of real morphemes in comparison to real words only if these are
accessed as a single unit, but not if morphemes are represented separately
in the mental lexicon. Indeed, only morphologically empty pseudowords
showed an increased N400 in comparison to all other stimulus types,
which did not differ from one another, a result which seems to speak in
favor of morphological decomposition.
However, there also seems to be an alternative explanation. Proponents
of the convergence theory approach to morphology have highlighted the
issue that what counts as a morpheme in classical approaches (i.e. those
assuming that morphemes are separable units, namely the smallest
meaning-bearing units in language, which are combined compositionally
into larger units) is debatable. Thus, grocer has the same apparent morpho-
logical structure as baker, runner, and writer, but the relationship between
groce and grocer does not resemble that in bake – baker, run – runner, or write –
writer (Seidenberg and Gonnerman 2000). They also point out that different
studies have adopted different analyses with regard to the morphological
status of words such as grocer, which of course poses problems for the
comparability and interpretability of results across experiments. In their
alternative view, morphological structure is viewed as quasi-regular (see
Seidenberg and McClelland 1989, for the coining of this term with regard
to orthographical structure): this means that, while the correspondence
between form and meaning can be described as rule-governed in some
cases and appears fully irregular in others, there are also many intermediate
cases. Convergence theory assumes that morphological structure emerges
from the correspondence between form (phonology/orthography) and
meaning (semantics) and that this mapping involves a graded set of regu-
larities. In Seidenberg and Gonnerman’s words:
The attempt to impose a discrete notion of morphemic compositionality
misses the broader generalization about the quasiregular character of the
lexicon. The word turn is very related to turned, somewhat less related to
return and unrelated (any longer) to the name Turner. It would be desirable
to have a knowledge representation that reflects these different degrees of
relatedness. (Seidenberg and Gonnerman 2000: 357)
They propose that connectionist networks provide a natural means of
encoding this type of knowledge representation: networks learn to map
Computational primitives in morphology 289
the domains onto one another and, in doing so, acquire the graded degrees
of regularity evident in this mapping. Crucially, in this approach, there are
no units corresponding to morphemes. How could this approach explain
the findings by McKinnon et al. (2003)? In convergence theory, strings with
a particular orthography and/or phonology which make similar semantic
contributions to a number of existing words will activate those semantic
features whenever they occur in the input. This assumption should clearly
also apply for the existing morphemes in the morphologically structured
pseudowords in McKinnon and colleagues’ study (e.g. pro-mit, ex-ceive,
in-cern). Thus, these pseudowords should be expected to activate semantic
features in a similar way to pseudohomophones such as sute (see Harm and
Seidenberg 2004, for detailed discussion and connectionist simulations of
pseudohomophone processing). Assuming that the ease of activating
semantic features may be related to N400 amplitude (see Lau, Phillips,
and Poeppel 2008, for an account of the N400 based on lexical activation,
though assuming traditional lexical entries), it appears plausible that
those pseudowords that McKinnon et al. (2003) analyzed as having mor-
phological structure should engender a reduced N400 effect in comparison
to their morphologically empty counterparts, since the overlap between
phonology/orthography and meaning is larger in these cases. Of course,
this assumption would need to be tested with explicit simulations.
Nevertheless, the case of the pseudohomophones, which were shown to
activate semantic representations in connectionist simulations (Harm and
Seidenberg 2004) appears a promising precursor in this regard. Clearly, as
for the pseudohomophones, one remaining question is how the network
would recognize whether a “morphologically structured” pseudoword is
not an existing word. This, however, must also be addressed in a
decomposition-based approach, presumably by means of an additional
processing mechanism (see, for example, Schreuder and Baayen’s (1995)
“licensing and composition” stage).
In summary, while existing studies on morphological decomposition
strongly suggest that morphological structure is processed at some level,
they do not provide compelling evidence for morphemes as independent
symbol-like units which are combined via compositional principles.
Rather, they leave open the possibility that their findings could also be
explained by the convergence of codes.4
15.2.3 Frequency effects
A third approach to studying the question of morphological composition
capitalizes upon word frequency effects to investigate decomposition vs.
full-form storage. It is well known that frequency affects measures of word
recognition, with low versus high frequency words engendering longer
fixation times during reading (see Rayner 1998, for an overview) and
longer reaction times in lexical decision (Whaley 1978) or naming tasks
290 I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y
(Forster and Chambers 1973). Building on these basic observations, many
studies have examined frequency effects in morphologically complex
words. The basic idea here is that frequency values are associated with
lexical entries (e.g. serving to modulate their activation) and that fre-
quency effects for a given unit can be viewed as evidence for the storage
of that unit. Alegre and Gordon (1999) argue, for example:
If regularly inflected forms are not represented as whole words, then the
base form must be accessed every time an inflected word is processed.
Thus, access speed should depend on the cluster frequency of the base
form, defined as the aggregated frequencies of the base and all its inflec-
tional variants (e.g., for walk, the summed frequencies of walk, walks, walked,
and walking). On the other hand, if whole-word representations are avail-
able for regularly inflected forms, then the frequency of the inflected form
itself should determine access time. (Alegre and Gordon 1999: 42)
Numerous studies using this rationale have been conducted in the behav-
ioral domain (see, for example, Alegre and Gordon, 1999; Seidenberg and
Gonnerman 2000, and the references cited therein). In this context, inter-
actions between morphological complexity and frequency have been
interpreted as evidence for the full-form storage of some morphologically
complex words, e.g. in the case of inflectional ambiguity (Baayen, Dijkstra,
and Schreuder, 1997) or with high frequency words (Laine et al. 1995).
In the neurocognitive domain, Vartiainen et al. (2009) used MEG to
examine inflected (case-marked) versus monomorphemic (non-inflected)
words in Finnish and crossed this manipulation with the factor word
frequency (high vs. low). They observed a stronger activation of left supe-
rior temporal cortex for morphologically complex vs. monomorphemic
words (200–800 ms post word onset). This effect was also stronger for low
versus high frequency words irrespective of morphological complexity,
but there was no interaction between the two factors. On the basis of these
findings, the authors argue in favor of (general processes of) morphologi-
cal decomposition, proposing that full-form storage may apply only to
inflected forms of the very highest frequency. They further suggest that
the timing of their complexity effect is indicative not of early morpholog-
ical decomposition (which should be expected to occur earlier) but rather
of the syntactic and semantic ramifications of processing morphologically
complex words.
In a recent fMRI study, Vannest et al. (2011) examined the interaction
between frequency and morphological complexity in English by contrast-
ing monomorphemic and morphologically complex words with high and
low base frequency. Within the morphologically complex words, they addi-
tionally manipulated whether these words were assumed to be decompos-
able or not (based on the assumption that decomposition only applies with
certain types of affixes, see Section 15.3.2 for further discussion). Effects of
morphological complexity (complex > simplex words) were observed in the
Computational primitives in morphology 291
lIFG and lSTG independently of frequency, with the activation increase for
non-decomposable words over simple words less pronounced than that for
decomposable words over simple words. Base frequency effects were
observable only in the thalamus and together with an interaction between
frequency and word type: base frequency effects occurred for decompos-
able and simple words but not for non-decomposable words. The authors
suggest that this pattern may be related to the degree of phonological and
semantic overlap between the base and the full form, which is higher in the
simple and decomposable forms than in the non-decomposable forms
(which include forms with a phonological change to the base, e.g. serene –
serenity, and forms which are semantically less transparent, e.g. hospital –
hospitality). They argue that issues of transparency may also have played a
role in the graded activation patterns in the lIFG and lSTG (decomposable
words > non-decomposable words > simple words), in that the effect of the
base morpheme on the processing of complex words is stronger for decom-
posable vs. non-decomposable words.
Perhaps most importantly, however, Vannest et al.’s (2011) data show
that the relationship between (unidimensional) behavioral findings and
multidimensional neuroscientific results is not trivial. While their behav-
ioral results replicated well-known data patterns in showing a base fre-
quency effect for decomposable but not for non-decomposable words, the
fMRI data suggest that this result cannot be straightforwardly taken to
suggest composition versus full-form storage, respectively: this assumption
is not compatible with the graded response within the lIFG and lSTG. In
addition, further regions showed a sensitivity to word frequency, but either
did not respond to morphological complexity or only showed a frequency
effect for simple words. From these findings, the authors conclude that
“subtle differences in words’ morphological complexity (semantic and
phonological transparency, the relationship between its base and surface
frequency) affect the neural mechanisms used to recognize them in a more
graded fashion than what behavioral measures have suggested so far”
(Vannest et al. 2011: 152). The implications of this observation are quite
far-reaching: if fine-grained neuroscientific findings call for different con-
clusions on morphological decomposition than behavioral results, this
means that conclusions from behavioral experiments cannot be simply
transferred to the neural domain. In other words, taking (apparent) behav-
iorally established candidates for computational primitives in morphology
and conducting imaging experiments to isolate their neural correlates is
not straightforwardly possible. Rather, it appears that we need to develop
new paradigms to address these types of questions directly within the
neurocognitive domain.
To summarize, while frequency effects have been very influential in the
behavioral literature on morphological processing, recent neuroimaging
findings suggest that the behavioral data patterns may be a surface reflec-
tion (essentially the unidimensional endpoint) of a complex set of
292 I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y
multidimensional underlying mechanisms (for similar arguments, see also
Bornkessel et al. 2004; Bornkessel-Schlesewsky and Schlesewsky 2007).
Furthermore, it has been demonstrated that connectionist models can
produce frequency effects without incorporating word units (Seidenberg
and McClelland 1989), thus suggesting that the assumed storage implica-
tion arising from such effects may be too strong (Seidenberg and
Gonnerman 2000). As in the preceding subsections, then, frequency effects
do not at present appear to provide unequivocal evidence for specific
computational primitives in morphology.
15.3 Classic oppositions in morphology and their
neurobiological (im)plausibility
As already outlined in the introduction, we will argue in this chapter that the
way in which morphological computations are implemented by the brain
does not appear to follow classic oppositions assumed in morphological
theory (e.g. derivation vs. inflection, regular vs. irregular morphology). In
this section, we shall justify this position by discussing evidence on the
processing of these different domains. We will begin by considering studies
on regular vs. irregular morphology, since these have played a major role in
shaping debates regarding the cognitive and neural bases of language.
Subsequently, we will move on to possible neurocognitive bases for the
distinction between inflectional and derivational morphology.
15.3.1 Processing regular vs. irregular morphology: The past-tense
debate and beyond
At least since Berko’s classic (1958) study on the acquisition of morphology
in English,5
many scholars assumed morphological rules for the process-
ing (i.e. acquisition, comprehension, and production) of regular inflections
to be psychologically real. Berko herself argued:
If a child knows that the plural of witch is witches, he may simply have
memorized the plural form. If, however, he tells us that the plural of gutch
is gutches, we have evidence that he actually knows, albeit unconsciously,
one of those rules which the descriptive linguist, too, would set forth in his
grammar. (Berko 1958: 150)
This assumption that some (i.e. regular) morphological forms are rule-
derived is one of the basic tenets of an influential class of morphological
models, namely the so-called dual-route models. In addition to the rule-
based processing pathway, these models posit a second processing route,
namely one which directly accesses the full form of irregular forms. The
assumptions of such an approach for the neurocognition of language are
aptly summarized by Pinker (1998):
Computational primitives in morphology 293
The vast expressive power of language is made possible by two principles:
the arbitrary sound-meaning pairing underlying words, and the discrete
combinatorial system underlying grammar. These principles implicate dis-
tinct cognitive mechanisms: associative memory and symbol-manipulating
rules. The distinction may be seen in the difference between regular
inflection (e.g. walk-walked), which is productive and open-ended and
hence implicates a rule, and irregular inflection (e.g. come-came), which
is idiosyncratic and closed and hence implicates individually memorized
words. (Pinker 1998: 219, our emphasis)
Thus, as the quote by Pinker makes clear, if dual-route models of morphol-
ogy are to be considered cognitively and neurobiologically plausible, one
should expect to find clear brain correlates of the distinction between
regular and irregular morphology and the processes associated with each.
This is what one might describe as the weak dual-route assumption: regular vs.
irregular morphology should show clearly distinguishable (neuro-)cognitive
processing correlates. A stronger dual-route assumption was formulated by
Ullman (2001b, 2004) within the scope of his declarative-procedural (DP)
model, which posits that the processing of regular morphology (and
rule-based processes in language more generally) is accomplished using
procedural memory systems, while irregular morphology forms part of
declarative memory. Procedural memory stores habits and skills (e.g. riding
a bicycle), is implicit (i.e. not consciously accessible), and thought to be
associated with a fronto-parietal network of brain regions (including
Broca’s region) and the basal ganglia. Declarative memory, by contrast,
stores facts and events, is explicit (i.e. consciously accessible), and thought
to be implemented primarily by medial temporal brain structures (the
hippocampus and surrounding regions). With regard to event-related
brain potentials (ERPs), Ullman claimed that the distinction between the
two memory systems correlated with left anterior negativities (LANs) and
P600 effects for procedural and N400 effects for declarative memory pro-
cesses, respectively.6
According to the DP-model and its strong dual-route
assumption, then, the processing of regular morphology should be sup-
ported by fronto-parietal regions and the basal ganglia in neuroanatomical
terms and correlate with LAN and P600 effects in electrophysiological terms.
The processing of irregular morphology, on the other hand, should draw
upon medial temporal regions and manifest itself in N400 effects.
In short, neither the stronger nor the weak version of dual-route assump-
tions has stood up to empirical scrutiny. While early EEG and neuroimaging
studies in the 1990s appeared to provide support for dual-route theories, the
more studies that have been conducted, the more inconsistent the results
have become. It is beyond the scope of this chapter to provide a compre-
hensive survey of all of the relevant results (for a detailed review and
discussion, see Bornkessel-Schlesewsky and Schlesewsky 2009a). Rather,
we restrict ourselves to providing a summary of key findings – both in
294 I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y
favor of and in contradiction to the assumptions of dual-route approaches –
in Table 15.1.
Further complications arise when studies on morphological subregular-
ities are considered. Clearly, and as already noted above in connection
with the convergence theory, the assumption that all irregular forms are
completely dissimilar to one another and to regular forms is a gross over-
simplification. Rather, even in languages such as English, in which the
distinction between regular and irregular forms is relatively clear, irregu-
lars fall into a number of classes (e.g. verbs that do not change to form the
past tense such as beat and cut, verbs that change a final d to t to form the
past tense such as send and build, verbs that form the past tense by means
of a vowel change and the addition of a final t or d such as feel, lose and tell,
Bybee and Slobin 1982). In an ERP study on the processing of subregular-
ities in German plural formation, Bartke et al. (2005) found that subregular
forms engendered a reduced N400 in comparison to (correct) “fully” irregu-
lar forms. Furthermore, morphological violations showed a smaller N400
effect (for the violation in comparison to a well-formed control) when the
incorrect form was created by adding a subregular vs. irregular plural
ending. This was accompanied by a higher behavioral acceptance rate of
the subregular violations, i.e. participants showed a higher tendency to
(erroneously) judge these words as well-formed. While dual-route models
can accommodate form-based similarities between irregular forms due to
the assumption of an associative memory system rather than a simple list
of irregular verbs (Pinker and Prince 1988; Pinker and Prince 1994), the
dissociation between different types of irregular verbs observed by Bartke
et al. (2005) would seem to require the addition of a third model compo-
nent. Indeed, Bartke and colleagues argue for a tripartite architecture, in
which rules and lexical entries and associative memory are supplemented
by a third, intermediary information type which is rule-like but qualita-
tively different from default rules. Since they also argue that only three
model components are required (for rule-based forms, subregular forms,
and fully irregular forms, respectively), they do not share the fully graded
view of morphological regularity that is inherent in connectionist
approaches. However, since only three “grades” were tested in their
study, the empirical results don’t seem to rule out a more general, fully
graded approach.
At a first glance, the absence of clear neurophysiological and neuro-
anatomical evidence for the dual-route perspective might be viewed as
support for the opposite assumption, namely that regular and irregular
morphology is formed via a single route. The most prominent class of single-
route approaches in the neurobiological domain is constituted by connec-
tionist models. In a seminal paper, Rumelhart and McClelland (1986)
questioned whether the way in which children acquire the English past
tense, including the ability to inflect nonce words described above, indeed
implicates two distinct cognitive subsystems as noted in the quote by Pinker
Computational primitives in morphology 295
Table 15.1 Summary of the key neurophysiological and neuroanatomical
evidence for and against dual-route assumptions (for more detailed
discussion, see Bornkessel-Schlesewsky and Schlesewsky, 2009a).
Evidence for dual-route assumptions
Representative studies (language in
parentheses)
Patient studies Ullman et al. (1997) (English)
Double dissociation between patients with anterior
lesions/Parkinson’s disease (deﬁcits in the
production of regular forms) and patients with
posterior lesions/Alzheimer’s disease (deﬁcits in the
production of irregular forms)
Electrophysiological ﬁndings (violation paradigms) Penke et al. (1997) (German)
N400 for irregularized regular forms Weyerts et al. (1997) (German)
LAN for regularized irregular forms Gross et al. (1998) (Italian)
Rodriguez-Fornells et al. (2001)
(Catalan)
Lück et al. (2006) (German)
Electrophysiological ﬁndings (priming) Weyerts et al. (1996) (German)
N400 reduction for primed regular but not for
primed irregular forms (priming from stem or
inﬁnitive to inﬂected form)
Münte et al. (1999b) (English)
Rodriguez-Fornells et al. (2002)
(Spanish)
Neuroimaging ﬁndings Jaeger et al. (1996) (English)
Neuroanatomical dissociations between regular and
irregular forms
Beretta et al. (2003) (German)
Tyler et al. (2005) (English)
Desai et al. (2006) (English)
de Diego Balaguer et al. (2006)
(Spanish)
Evidence against dual-route assumptions
Representative studies (language in
parentheses)
Patient studies Bird et al. (2003) (English)
Apparent impairment of regular morphology is no
longer observable (in some patients) when
phonological structure is controlled
Electrophysiological ﬁndings (violation paradigms)
N400 effects for violations involving productive
derivational afﬁxes
Janssen et al. (2005) (German)
N400 modulations for subregularities in inﬂectional
morphology
Bartke et al. (2005) (German)
More generally: N400 effects for violations of rule-
based morphological information
Choudhary et al. (2009) (Hindi)
Neuroimaging ﬁndings
Inconsistencies in the neuroanatomical locus of the
differences between regular and irregular forms
(references as above)
Dependence of 1IFG activation on phonological
properties
Joanisse and Seidenberg (2005)
(English)
296 I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y
above and assumed by dual-route models in general. They showed that a
relatively simple pattern associator network could simulate the acquisi-
tion phases for irregular and regular past tense forms and thus argued that
a distinction between two computational mechanisms for regular vs.
irregular morphology – one rule-based and one amounting to retrieval in
an associative memory system – was not a conceptual necessity. While
several aspects of the original Rumelhart and McClelland model turned
out to be problematic, these were addressed in later models (e.g. Plunkett
and Marchman 1993). Furthermore, since a key property of connectionist
networks is that similar input representations are mapped onto similar
output representations, models of this type appear, in principle, better
equipped to deal with the problem of subregularities that was briefly
discussed above. However, as already argued for the dual-route models,
the “real” test for single-route connectionist models is, of course, whether
they are neurobiologically plausible or not. Here, the data in Table 15.1
reveal several problems: While they do not provide clear evidence for a
dual-route perspective, the fact that neurophysiological and neuroanatom-
ical differences have been repeatedly demonstrated for the processing of
regular and irregular forms and that findings of this type cannot be
reduced to the higher degree of difficulty associated with irregulars (as
argued by Seidenberg and Hoeffner 1998; Seidenberg and Arnoldussen
2003) appears difficult to reconcile with a strict single-route proposal.
More recently, advocates of connectionist approaches to morphological
processing have therefore posited that regular and irregular forms may
draw more strongly upon phonological and semantic processing systems,
respectively (Joanisse and Seidenberg 1999). From this perspective, quali-
tative differences between the two types of forms are to be expected, but
these would be due to the reliance upon independently motivated linguis-
tic subsystems rather than to distinct mechanisms for the processing of
regular and irregular forms per se. Converging evidence for this proposal
stems both from patient studies and from neuroimaging findings: Bird
et al. (2003) demonstrated that, in some cases, apparent impairments in the
processing of regular morphology disappear when phonological structure
is controlled; using fMRI, Joanisse and Seidenberg (2005) showed that
irregular forms that were phonologically similar to regulars (“pseudo-
regulars,” e.g. slept, fled, sold) showed similar activation in the lIFG to regular
forms and differed from “true” irregulars (e.g. took, gave).7
However, fur-
ther recent studies suggest that the assumption of differential phonologi-
cal vs. semantic contributions to the processing of regular and irregular
forms does not appear to provide a completely satisfying account of the
existing data, since imaging experiments that have controlled for phono-
logical properties nevertheless found activation differences between regu-
lar and irregular forms (de Diego Balaguer et al. 2006; Desai et al. 2006).8
In summary, neither dual-route nor existing connectionist models can
explain the full range of existing neurocognitive results on the processing of
Computational primitives in morphology 297
regular and irregular morphological forms. In our view, this strongly sug-
gests that the “regularity debate,” i.e. the discussion of whether the distinc-
tion between regular and irregular morphological forms should be viewed
as a primary determinant of how morphological processing is implemented
in the brain, has not provided us with particularly fruitful answers regard-
ing possible computational primitives in morphology and that fresh av-
enues of investigation should therefore be pursued (for a similar line of
argumentation, see Bornkessel-Schlesewsky and Schlesewsky 2009a; de
Diego Balaguer et al. 2006; Münte, Rodriguez-Fornells, and Kutas 1999a).
This observation is further supported by a growing body of results from
corpus, computational, and behavioral studies which suggest that the regu-
larity debate has ignored crucial factors that are often confounded with
distinctions in regularity. For example, Baayen and Moscoso del Prado
(2005) show for English, Dutch, and German that regular and irregular
verbs differ in terms of semantic density (i.e. irregular verbs tend to have
more meanings than regular verbs and they occur in semantic neighbor-
hoods with larger numbers of other irregular verbs), inflectional entropy
(i.e. irregular verbs tend to “make fuller use” of the inflectional possibilities
afforded by the language), argument structure alternations, and auxiliary
selection. They demonstrate that these properties correlate strongly with a
range of behavioral measures (e.g. response latencies in a lexical decision
task) and that they were confounded with the regularity distinction in two
neuroimaging studies that reported activation differences between regular
and irregular forms (Jaeger et al. 1996, for English; Beretta et al. 2003, for
German). It appears very likely that this confound applies to other existing
studies as well.
Further results have demonstrated convincingly that both irregular and
regular past tense formation are influenced by semantic factors (i.e. real-
world meaning, Ramscar 2002) and by phonological properties of the stem
(Albright and Hayes 2003). This is extremely problematic for dual-route
assumptions, since the application of the (single) past tense rule is thought
to be guided only by the category of the base to which it applies (unless it is
blocked by the presence of a lexically stored irregular past tense form) and
to thus be independent of factors such as frequency and semantics. The
semantic similarity findings also cannot be explained by Joanisse and
Seidenberg’s (1999) connectionist model, since the semantic representa-
tions posited as part of this model do not encode semantic similarity
between concepts/lexical entries. (In principle, though, it should of course
be possible to encode this type of similarity within a network model.) Two
different types of conclusions have been drawn from these types of results.
Some authors have argued for probabilistic pattern matching or analogy-
based effects (Ramscar 2002; Baayen and del Prado Martı́n 2005). Others
have claimed that the data are best explained via a set of probabilistic
rules, which are built up from phonologically based lexical generalizations
(Albright and Hayes 2003). Further research will be required in order to
298 I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y
arbitrate between these competing views. However, whichever of these
approaches ends up providing a better account of the data (for a recent
comparison between Albright and Hayes’s approach and connectionist
modeling, see Mirković, Seidenberg, and Joanisse 2011), they both cur-
rently point to the same take-home message: probabilistic information
appears to play a crucial role in morphological processing as do phono-
logical and semantic similarity. These conclusions indicate that the overall
picture on morphological processing is much richer and more complex
than the prominent dual- vs. single-route debate suggests. They also once
again point to the interface character of morphology by serving to high-
light the crucial role of other linguistic domains in morphological process-
ing. It thus appears likely that future neurocognitive research taking this
rich variety of relevant information sources into account will significantly
advance our understanding of possible neurobiologically plausible primi-
tives of morphological computation. Some further (initial) ideas in this
regard will be described in Section 15.4.
15.3.2 Inﬂection vs. derivation
The discussion in the preceding section essentially revolved around ques-
tions pertaining to inflectional morphology. (And indeed, this was the
domain in which the regularity debate – often also termed the “past-tense
debate” – originated.) In this subsection, we will extend the discussion to
include derivational morphology, examining the hypothesis that the
distinction between inflection and derivation may be relevant to defining
computational primitives in morphology and their brain correlates.
The possibility that the brain may dissociate between inflectional and
derivational morphology was first raised on the basis of a patient study on
an Italian patient who made errors in the production and repetition of
inflected words, but only few errors with derived words (Miceli et al. 1988).
On the basis of this finding, Miceli and Caramazza argued that inflection
and derivation constitute functionally separable processes within the lex-
icon. Several later studies appeared to confirm this dissociation (Laine et al.
1995; Druks 2006; Hamilton and Branch Coslett 2007), while other patient
findings revealed comparably degraded performance for both inflected
and derived words (Castles et al. 1996; Luzzatti, Mondini, and Semenza
2001). Among the studies reporting a distinction, Laine and colleagues
additionally argued for a distinction between highly frequent and less
frequent inflected forms, proposing that the former are stored as full
forms while the latter are decomposed (see Section 15.2.3). This assump-
tion was based on the observation that the Finnish agrammatic aphasic
who they studied was only impaired in reading medium and low frequency
inflected forms, but not high frequency inflected forms (but see Vartiainen
et al. 2009, who argue that full-form storage only applies to inflected forms
of extremely high frequency).
Computational primitives in morphology 299
Interestingly, a series of more recent patient studies indicates that
deficit patterns which, at a first glance, appear highly specific need not
necessarily reflect specialized functions. Marangolo et al. (2003) reported
observations from two Italian patients with a selective deficit for produc-
ing nouns derived from verbs (e.g. fall-imento, “failure,” from fallire, “to
fail”). While these initial patients had right-hemispheric temporal and
parietal lesions (only one had a frontal lesion), a later group study
(Marangolo and Piras 2008) found that this particular impairment
appeared to be associated particularly with the right basal ganglia (BG).
Similar conclusions were drawn from an fMRI study with healthy partici-
pants, which showed right BG involvement for a derivational vs. inflec-
tional task (Marangolo et al. 2006). Marangolo and colleagues argue that
their findings can be explained in terms of selection processes. They
suggest that, due to the fact that Italian has large morphological families
for verbs, deriving nouns from verbs requires selecting one case from a
large set of alternatives and that the (domain-general) inhibitory mecha-
nisms required by this selection process are supported by the right BG
(Marangolo and Piras 2010). In this view, aspects of cognitive control
(selection, inhibition) play a crucial role in the computations underlying
derivational morphology and their neural underpinnings.
Neural distinctions between inflectional and derivational morphology
have also been proposed on the basis of electrophysiological investiga-
tions of languages with an extremely rich morphology. For Finnish,
Leinonen et al. (2008) contrasted inflectional (number agreement), deri-
vational (word-internal selectional restriction; root and suffix combina-
tion), and double violations. They argue that their results show
qualitatively different responses to the two types of (single) violations:
an anterior negativity (AN) for inflectional violations, an N400 for deriva-
tional violations, and a P600 for both violation types, with the P600 effect
in the combined violation equaling the linear summation of the two
single violations. However, visual inspection of the data suggests that
all violation conditions in fact engender an AN and that the choice of time
windows may have biased towards the different topographies in the
effects for inflection and derivation. Thus, while a distinction between
inflectional and derivational morphology could still be upheld to some
degree if both showed an AN and derivational morphology additionally
showed an N400 (as visual inspection suggests), the assumption of a
double dissociation appears somewhat questionable.9
Moreover, the asso-
ciation between N400 effects and derivational morphology does not
appear to generalize, since (in addition to the N400 effects reported for
violations of inflectional morphology in the context of the past-tense
debate; see Table 15.1), Morris and Holcomb (2005) observed N400 effects
for regular and irregular inflectional violations. Nevertheless, the distinc-
tion between those aspects of morphological processing that correlate
with N400 effects and those that engender anterior negativities does
300 I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y
appear to be of some importance with regard to the brain bases of
morphological computation. We shall discuss this issue in more detail
in Section 15.4.2 below.
Adopting a different experimental paradigm, Álvarez et al. (2011) con-
trasted inflection and derivation by means of morphologically related and
unrelated primes and targets in Spanish word pairs (primes not masked).
They reported a reduced N400 in both cases, but different source local-
izations for the two effects: regions commonly associated with visual word
recognition (right cuneus and lingual gyrus) for inflection and left medial
frontal areas and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) for derivation. However,
rather than arguing for different computational operations within the two
morphological domains, these authors adopt a similar approach to
Marangolo and colleagues (e.g. Marangolo and Piras 2010, see above) in
claiming that the distinction can be explained in terms of more basic
mechanisms or domain-general functions such as cognitive control and
aspects of visual discriminability.
The preceding discussion once again shows how questions regarding
morphological computation are potentially overshadowed by task-related
demands: derivation vs. inflection (or special cases of one or the other) may
impose differential demands on general cognitive mechanisms such as
selection or visual discriminability in generation or decision tasks, but this
does not necessarily imply differing computational primitives in morphol-
ogy. From this perspective, another experimental paradigm appears
potentially more promising, namely the comparison between morphologi-
cally complex versus simple words, preferably using an indirect task. This
type of experimental setup was used by Laine et al. (1999), who used PET to
compare case-marked vs. non-case-marked nouns in a recognition mem-
ory task on Finnish. They observed increased activation in left BA 44/45
for case-marked vs. non-case-marked words. Inferior frontal activation
(though in BA 47) was also observed for this type of contrast in subsequent
fMRI studies using a different task (Lehtonen et al. 2006 examined Finnish
and used a lexical decision task; Yokoyama et al. 2006 contrasted inflected
verbs of differing morphological complexity (active vs. passive) in Japanese
and used an orthography-related judgment task; Inui, Ogawa, and Ohba
2007 examined Japanese and used a particle judgment task).10
A similar
finding has also been reported in the domain of derivational morphology:
Vannest, Polk, and Lewis (2005) used a similar task to Laine et al. (1999) and
contrasted different types of affixed words, monomorphemic words, and
inflected words. In line with the assumption that only certain affixes are
automatically decomposed (e.g. -able, -ness, but not -ity or -ation, see
Bertram, Schreuder, and Baayen 2000, and Section 15.2.3), they observed
increased lIFG activation for “decomposable” (e.g. adaptable) vs. “whole
word” (e.g. curiosity) affixed words and a marginal activation increase for
inflected vs. “whole words.” Thus, findings from inflectional and deriva-
tional morphology appear to converge and, interestingly, results once
Computational primitives in morphology 301
again point to a role of the lIFG in morphological processing. As already
pointed out in Section 15.2, however, this region is notoriously multifunc-
tional and thus does not appear to be a good candidate for the anatomical
locus (should there be such a thing) of computational primitives in mor-
phology as opposed to more general mechanisms.
In summary, the overall pattern of results on the processing of inflec-
tional and derivational morphology does not present compelling evidence
for separable brain-based computational primitives between the two
domains. Rather, common themes such as the question of decomposition
vs. storage recur for both, as do common neural regions (e.g. the lIFG and OT
cortex). Finally, the results in this domain once again serve to emphasize the
importance of task demands in the interpretation of empirical findings.
15.4 Morphology as a relational information type
In the previous section, we discussed a number of potential candidates for
computational primitives in morphology and showed that, in view of the
existing data patterns, they do not appear to withstand scrutiny from the
perspective of neural plausibility. In this section, we will now adopt a
somewhat more “positive” perspective in that we will attempt to discuss
some potential solutions for how neurally plausible computational prim-
itives in morphology might be envisaged. At this point, it is important to
note that, by computational primitives, we not only mean those computa-
tional mechanisms that are unique to morphology (for which we don’t see
much evidence at present), but also those mechanisms that might underlie
morphological processing, even if they are more general in nature. As we
have already seen in the preceding sections, scholars working on the
neural correlates of morphology have put forward a number or proposals
for such mechanisms, ranging from principles in other linguistic domains
(e.g. phonology and semantics) to domain-general cognitive processes such
as selection. Here, we will argue for several further important points that,
in our view, are of central importance to understanding morphological
processing in the brain. Firstly, we will show that the neural correlates of
morphological processing differ consistently from those related to the
processing of combinatorial structure in syntax (see Schlesewsky and
Bornkessel-Schlesewsky, this volume, for a detailed discussion of combi-
natory structure in language and its neural underpinnings). We argue that
these findings reflect the distinction between the relational nature of mor-
phology and the combinatory nature of syntax. Secondly, we will discuss
several fine-grained distinctions in the neural correlates of morphological
processing that appear to be best explained with reference to functional
distinctions, specifically with regard to whether a morphologically estab-
lished relation is interpretively relevant or not.
302 I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y
15.4.1 Neural correlates of morphological processing differ from
those related to combinatorial structure
As described in detail in our accompanying chapter on computational
primitives in syntax (Schlesewsky and Bornkessel-Schlesewsky, this vol-
ume), the most plausible candidate for a neurobiologically plausible syn-
tactic primitive is the combination of elements to form larger structures
(i.e. the operation Merge in Chomskyan frameworks or corresponding
combinatory operations/representational principles in other approaches).
Though the neuroanatomical details clearly require further exploration,
since many existing findings are subject to the same task-related influences
that we discussed above in the context of morphological processing, the
anterior temporal lobe (ATL) may be involved in these computations. From
an electrophysiological perspective, two groups have argued prominently
that word category-based processes of syntactic structure-building are
reflected in the early left-anterior negativity (ELAN) (Neville et al. 1991;
Friederici, Pfeifer, and Hahne 1993; Friederici 2002; Pakulak and Neville
2010, among others). (But see Steinhauer and Drury 2012, for a recent
critical review of the ELAN literature.) Though neither of these potential
neural correlates of basic combinatory processes is unequivocally accep-
ted (Hagoort 2005; Snijders et al. 2009), it is quite clear from the literature
that neither has been associated with morphological processing (see the
preceding sections). Thus, the neural correlates of morphological process-
ing appear separable from those underlying basic combinatory processes
in syntax. This is, in and of itself, an interesting observation, since, from a
theoretical perspective, one could also argue for a primitive, Merge-like
operation at the morphological level (see, for example, the “nanosyntax”
approach, in which syntactic structure is thought to extend to the sub-
lexical level, e.g. Starke 2009). The neurocognitive data, by contrast, sup-
port a separability of morphological processing from basic combinatory
processing.
This observation could then be taken to reflect the relational role of
morphology. Morphology essentially serves to relate elements in a string
to one another by means of overt marking and without having to rely on
properties of the sequence in which they occur. Merge, by contrast, com-
bines two elements to form a larger constituent and thus cannot be
independent of sequence-based properties. The brain may thus distinguish
two distinct types of computations during the processing of linguistic
sequences: the combination of elements (combinatory structure building)
and the establishment of relational (sequence-independent) structure (see
also Bornkessel-Schlesewsky and Schlesewsky 2009a). While the former
falls into the domain of syntax, the latter is crucial from the perspective of
morphology. In the next subsection, we will therefore take a closer look at
the properties of relational structure building and some of the more fine-
grained distinctions underlying it.
Computational primitives in morphology 303
15.4.2 Fine-grained distinctions in the neural correlates
of morphological processing and their functional
underpinnings
Though we argued in the preceding subsection that morphology, as a
linguistic domain that is primarily relational in nature, should be viewed
as distinct from combinatory structure, this should not be taken to imply
that there is a single unified brain correlate of “relational structure build-
ing.” Rather, the brain response engendered by relational structuring
crucially depends on the functional significance of the relation that is
established; specifically, it appears to reflect whether a particular relation
is interpretively relevant or purely formal in nature.
This point is perhaps most clearly illustrated with regard to findings
from the electrophysiological domain. Recall from Section 15.3.1 that
studies examining morphological processing have found two qualitatively
distinct negative potential shifts: LAN and N400 effects. Within the scope
of the declarative–procedural model, these were interpreted as reflecting
the application of procedural and declarative memory systems, respec-
tively. However, as already discussed above, this interpretation cannot be
upheld empirically, since N400 effects are not restricted to morphological
phenomena that would be described as “non-rule-based” in a dual-route
system. If, then, both the LAN and the N400 can index rule-based (or
regular) morphological phenomena, what might be the basis for the qual-
itative distinction between the two effects? In this regard, Choudhary et al.
(2009) proposed that the relevant factor may be whether the rule in ques-
tion is interpretively relevant or not. In an ERP study on Hindi, they
examined the processing of case violations within Hindi’s split-ergative
case system, i.e. they contrasted sentences in which the subject case
(ergative or nominative) matched or mismatched the aspect of the clause
(perfective vs. imperfective), and observed an N400 for the mismatch vs.
match between case and aspect.11
This result, which is in line with a range
of further findings on case violations in other languages (German: Frisch
and Schlesewsky 2001; Frisch and Schlesewsky 2005; Japanese: Mueller
et al. 2005; Mueller et al. 2007), stands in contrast to the processing of
agreement violations, which have been found to engender LAN effects
(e.g. Kutas and Hillyard 1983; Münte, Matzke, and Johannes 1997;
Coulson, King, and Kutas 1998; Hagoort and Brown 2000).12
Further
converging support for this distinction stems from a direct comparison
of case and agreement violations (Roehm et al. 2005). Importantly, how-
ever, it is not the distinction between case and agreement that is central
here: with the exception of the Hindi study by Choudhary and colleagues,
all of the studies on case violations described above used “double case
violations,” i.e. sentences in which the same case marking (illegitimately)
occurs on two arguments. Violations of subcategorized case (i.e. object case
required by the verb), by contrast, were again shown to yield LAN effects
304 I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y
(Friederici and Frisch 2000). This overall data pattern, which at a first
glance might appear somewhat confusing, becomes clear in light of the
distinction between interpretively relevant vs. irrelevant rules (or regular-
ities) that was introduced above: subject–verb agreement is a purely for-
mal relation without clear interpretive ramifications and the same holds
for subcategorized object case marking (which, though it might be argued
to correlate with semantic distinctions, is also grammaticalized and can-
not be derived from semantic factors). Double case violations, by contrast,
are interpretively relevant because they do not allow the language process-
ing system to construct a semantic role hierarchy between the two argu-
ments, i.e. to establish “who is acting on whom” (Frisch and Schlesewsky
2001, 2005). Strong converging support for this assumption was provided
by Frisch and Schlesewsky (2001), who demonstrated that the N400 effect
for double case violations vs. controls is eliminated when the two argu-
ments differ in terms of animacy, i.e. when an additional interpretive
prominence feature can help to set up an interpretive hierarchy between
the two arguments (for a detailed discussion of prominence and argument
interpretation including a summary of cross-linguistic findings, see
Bornkessel-Schlesewsky and Schlesewsky 2009b). Similarly, the choice of
ergative vs. nominative case in Hindi is interpretively relevant, since
ergative case is restricted to marking Actor participants (i.e. the more
Agent-like participant in a transitive relation) in perfective contexts,
while nominative is compatible with a range of possible interpretations
(including both Actor and Undergoer interpretations, with the Undergoer
the more Patient-like participant in a transitive relation). Butt and King
(2005) thus analyze ergative case in Hindi/Urdu as a “semantic case,” i.e. a
case that is assigned under more restricted (semantic) circumstances than
the default subject case (nominative).
In summary, then, the distinction between LAN and N400 effects for
morphological processing at the sentence level appears to correlate with
the distinction between formal and interpretively relevant information
sources. Note that this dissociation cannot be equated with the distinction
between syntactic and semantic information, which was long thought to
correlate with LAN (and P600) vs. N400 effects (see Kutas, Van Petten, and
Kluender 2006, for a recent overview), since all of the phenomena under
consideration here are morphosyntactic in nature. These findings once
again point to the interface nature of morphology by emphasizing that it is
the type of relation that is important for the type of electrophysiological
response rather than the examination of a morphological phenomenon
per se. In addition, the robust distinction between (double) case and agree-
ment violations in terms of ERPs further underscores our interpretation of
the lIFG activations for morphological processing as not specific to mor-
phology (see Section 15.2.2), since both agreement and double case viola-
tions have been shown to correlate with increased lIFG activation
(Newman et al. 2003; Nieuwland, Martin, and Carreiras, in press). This
Computational primitives in morphology 305
discrepancy may reflect the different aspects of neural activity that are
captured by fMRI as opposed to electroencephalographic or magnetoenceph-
alographic methods; possibly, the latter two are better suited to capturing
the rapid, stimulus-locked signal changes associated with incremental
(word-by-word) language processing (for discussion, see Vartiainen et al.
2009; Brennan and Pylkkänen 2012). In any case, the ERP distinctions
clearly provide further empirical evidence for a more general interpreta-
tion of morphology-related lIFG activations. The notion that different
aspects of relational processing are associated with qualitatively differing
brain responses may also carry over to another of morphology’s binary
distinctions, namely the difference between syntagmatic and paradig-
matic information. Both of these domains are relational in nature, but
the type of relations that they involve differ from one another: syntag-
matic relations are often described as “horizontal” because they are rela-
tions between elements within the same construction (i.e. sentence or
word), while paradigmatic relations are “vertical” in that they apply to
elements that can be substituted for one another within a construction (i.e.
members of the same paradigm). To date, it has not been tested empirically
whether this distinction also manifests itself neurally. However, some of
the findings discussed above may provide some initial pointers. Recall, for
example, that Marangolo and colleagues (Marangolo et al. 2003; Marangolo
and Piras 2008; Marangolo and Piras 2010) argue that their patients’ spe-
cific deficit for a particular type of derivational relation can be attributed
to a more general deficit in selecting one alternative from a range of
competitors. Crucially, the number of competitors is correlated with the
complexity of the morphological paradigm. Thus, there may be a natural
interrelation between paradigmatic relations in morphology and domain-
general mechanisms of selection and cognitive control. Syntagmatic rela-
tions, by contrast, require the formation of dependencies and thus may
draw upon a different set of cognitive mechanisms, which may once again
be domain-general rather than language-specific. Yet this is only an
assumption at present and thus clearly requires further corroboration
from future empirical studies.
15.5 Summary and conclusions
Overall, the results reviewed in the present chapter indicate that neuro-
biologically plausible “computational primitives in morphology” are pres-
ently very difficult to isolate. This could be viewed as evidence for the
position that there are, in fact, no such primitives, a position that would
coincide with the “convergence theory” (Seidenberg and Gonnerman
2000), which assumes that morphology results from the convergence of
codes between form (phonology/orthography) and meaning (semantics).
Indeed, we have discussed many findings pertaining to morphological
306 I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y
processing which appeared to reflect more general distinctions (e.g. formal
vs. interpretively relevant relations; task-related processing demands)
rather than purely morphological processing aspects. The neurocognitive
findings also indicate, however, that morphology differs from syntax in
that it is relational rather than purely combinatory in nature, an observa-
tion which appears to speak against the assumption of sublexical syntactic
structures. We have argued here that many of the brain correlates of
morphological processing are best understood as indexing different
aspects of this relational processing, for example whether the relation is
interpretive or formal in nature. This finding appears in natural accord
with the assumption that morphology is an interface phenomenon, as do
the effects of semantic and phonological structure that have recently been
shown to be of prime importance for morphological processing. Finally,
the observation that morphological effects may not be the same across
languages in the sense that only morphologically rich languages show
independent effects of morphological structure (i.e. effects that are not
correlated with other domains such as semantics) points to yet another
level of distinctions that must crucially be taken into account in future
research. In our view, these fine-grained differences and the range of
dimensions within which they occur indicate a clear way forward for
research on morphology and the brain: By examining rich and finely
structured sets of distinctions within and across languages, ideally using
naturalistic paradigms, and observing how these impact upon brain activ-
ity, we may soon be in a position to come up with new empirical general-
izations that are firmly grounded in neurobiology.
Appendix List of abbreviations
ACC anterior cingulate cortex
ATL anterior temporal lobe
BA Brodmann area
BG basal ganglia
l left
DP declarative–procedural
ELAN early left anterior negativity (i.e. a negativity with a maxi-
mum at approximately 150 ms post critical stimulus onset
with a left-anterior distribution)
ERPs event-related brain potentials
IFG inferior frontal gyrus
fMRI functional magnetic resonance imaging
LAN left anterior negativity (i.e. a negativity between approxi-
mately 300 and 500 ms post critical stimulus onset with a
left-anterior distribution)
MFG Middle frontal gyrus
MTG Middle temporal gyrus
Computational primitives in morphology 307
N400 a negativity between approximately 300 and 500 ms post
critical stimulus onset with a centro-parietal distribution
OT occipitotemporal cortex
P600 a positivity with a maximum at approximately 600 ms post
critical stimulus onset with a parietal distribution
PET positron emission tomography
r right
308 I N A B O R N K E S S E L - S C H L E S E W S K Y A N D M A T T H I A S S C H L E S E W S K Y
16
Grounding the cognitive
neuroscience of
semantics in linguistic
theory
Liina Pylkkänen,
Jonathan Brennan, and
Douglas Bemis
16.1 Introduction
If a visitor from Mars was told what the Cognitive Neuroscience of
Language is and what Linguistics is, they would presumably immediately
assume that the two disciplines must be tightly connected – after all, how
could one study the neural bases of language without an understanding of
what language is? At the present time, however, the connection between
the two fields remains rather loose. Linguists have not done a terrific job in
making their results accessible to the general public, and perhaps neuro-
scientists have also not reached out sufficiently to seek theoretical ground-
ing for their research. In our work, we seek to improve the situation for
one particular subdomain of language: combinatory semantics.
Of the various core processing levels of language, i.e. phonetics, phonol-
ogy, syntax, and semantics, the cognitive neuroscience of semantics has
been the most divorced from Linguistics. For example, for phonology,
although there is no cognitive neuroscience for most questions that pho-
nologists are interested in, there is, for instance, a wide literature studying
the neural bases of phonological categories assuming exactly the types of
phoneme representations proposed by phonological theory (e.g., Dehaene-
Lambertz 1997; Näätänen et al. 1997; Hickok and Poeppel 2000). Similarly
for syntax, research probing into the function of Broca’s area, for example,
This article originally appeared in a special issue on the Cognitive Neuroscience of Semantic Processing in the journal
Language and Cognitive Processes. The current chapter only incorporates minor changes to the original article, which was
primarily intended for a cognitive neuroscience audience. Reprinted by permission of the publisher Taylor & Francis Ltd
(www.tandfonline.com).‘Grounding the Cognitive Neuroscience of Semantics in Linguistic Theory’ by Liina Pylkkänen,
Jonathan Brennan and Douglas Bernis (2011) Language and Cognitive Processes Vol. 26: 09 pp. 1317–1337.
has assumed tree representations of the sort that one would also find in an
introductory syntax textbook (e.g., Caplan et al. 1999; Embick et al. 2000;
Grodzinsky and Friederici 2006; Moro et al. 2001; Patel 2003; Stromswold
et al. 1996). Not so for semantics. In fact, the word “semantics” tends to
mean rather different things in Cognitive Neuroscience and in Linguistics.
In Linguistics, the semantics of an expression refers to the complex mean-
ing that is computed by combining the meanings of the individual lexical
items within the expression. The formal rules that are employed in this
computation have been studied for about forty years, and many aspects of
these rules are now well understood. But until recently, despite the clear
necessity of understanding the neurobiology of the combinatory functions
that derive sentence meanings, we have had no cognitive neuroscience on
the brain bases of these rules. Instead, cognitive neuroscience research
with “semantic” in the title most often deals with the representation of
conceptual knowledge, investigating questions such as whether living
things and artifacts are distinctly represented in the brain (e.g.,
Mummery et al. 1998), or how different types of object concepts are repre-
sented (Martin and Chao 2001). The fact that this literature is disconnected
from Linguistics is not devastating – the questions are rather different
from those that concern linguists. Although linguistic semantics does
include a subfield called “lexical semantics” that focuses on word mean-
ing, even this subfield is mostly interested in word meaning that appears
to be composed of smaller parts – i.e. it has some type of complexity to it.
The representational differences between tools and animals is not a big
research question in Linguistics and thus the brain research on conceptual
knowledge has less to gain from linguistic theories.
There is another line of brain research on “semantics,” however, that
should and needs to connect with the types of theoretical models of mean-
ing representation offered by Linguistics. This is the so-called “N400 liter-
ature,” which uses the N400 as an index of “semantic integration.”
Although this functional interpretation is assumed by a sizeable research
community (see Lau et al. 2008 for a recent review), the N400 was not
discovered via a systematic search for a neural correlate of a theoretically
defined notion of “semantic integration.” In fact, the behavior and the
source localization of the N400 are much more compatible with a lexical
access based account (Lau et al. 2008), making the N400 an unlikely index
of semantic integrative processes.
In this article, we outline what we believe a theoretically grounded
cognitive neuroscience of semantics should look like. Our focus is on
combinatory semantics, i.e. the composition operations that serve to
build complex meanings from smaller parts. We take formal syntax and
semantics of the generative tradition (e.g., Heim and Kratzer 1998) as the
cognitive model that guides this research and defines the operations
whose neurobiology is to be investigated. We assume, hopefully uncon-
troversially, that the right way to uncover the neural bases of semantic
310 L I I N A P Y L K K Ä N E N , J O N A T H A N B R E N N A N , A N D D O U G L A S B E M I S
composition is to systematically vary, or otherwise track, this operation
during language processing. In our own research, we have aimed to do
exactly this. We will first define exactly what we mean by “semantic
composition,” then summarize our findings so far, discuss some open
questions, and finally, articulate our hopes for the future.
16.2 Semantic composition: Deﬁning the core operations
Theories of formal semantics are models of the possible meanings and
semantic combinatorics of natural language (e.g., Montague 1970; Dowty
1979; Parsons 1990; Steedman 1996; Heim and Kratzer 1998). They aim to
give a complete account of the representations and computations that
yield sentence meanings, including relatively straightforward rules that
combine predicates with arguments and adjuncts and extending to more
complicated phenomena such as the interpretation of tense, aspect, focus,
and so forth. The goal of these models is to understand and formalize
the nature of semantic knowledge both within languages and cross-
linguistically. Consequently, theories of formal semantics provide an
extremely rich and detailed hypothesis space both for psycho- and neuro-
linguistic experimentation.
One challenge for rooting the cognitive neuroscience of semantics in
formal theories of meaning is deciding what theory to follow; unsurpris-
ingly, different models make different claims about semantic representa-
tions and the mechanisms by which they are computed. Theoretical
semantics is a lively field with debate at every level of analysis, ranging
from foundational questions (such as what is the basic relationship between
syntax and semantics?) to issues relating to the formal details of the analysis
of a specific construction within a specific language. Such variance of
opinion may seem bewildering to a neuroscientist trying to figure out
what aspects of natural language meaning semanticists agree on, such
that those phenomena could safely be subjected to a brain investigation.
Unfortunately, there is no safe route: like any other branch of cognitive
science, semantic theory is ever evolving and virtually every aspect of it
has been or at least can be questioned. However, it is still possible to
identify certain basic operations as a starting point, while keeping in
mind the possibly controversial aspects of the formal treatment. In what
follows, we describe two operations that form the core of the combina-
tory engine in most semantic theories (for a fuller exposition, see
Pylkkänen and McElree 2006). Our notation follows Heim and Kratzer
(1998), but again, for our present purposes the details of the rules are not
important; rather, what is crucial is that this type of theory distinguishes
between two different modes of composition, one that serves to fill in
argument positions of predicates and one that modifies the predicate
without impacting its arguments. Although mainstream, this distinction
The cognitive neuroscience of semantics 311
is not a formal necessity nor necessarily empirically correct (e.g.,
Pietroski 2002, 2004, 2006), but given its central role in most semantic
theories, it one of the most basic distinctions that can be subjected to a
brain investigation. Since one reason for the disconnection between
cognitive neuroscience and formal semantics has likely been the relative
impenetrability of semantic theories for the non-linguist, in the follow-
ing we aim for a maximally informal and accessible description of the
basic ideas.
16.2.1 Function application
The driving force behind mainstream theories of semantic composition is
the idea that the meanings of most words are in some sense incomplete, or
“unsaturated,” unless they are combined with other words with suitable
meanings (Frege 1892). For an intuitive example, the semantics of action
verbs are thought to have “placeholders,” or variables, that stand for the
participants of the actions described by the verbs. In order for the mean-
ings of these verbs to be complete, or saturated, the verb needs to combine
with noun phrases that describe those participants. More formally, these
verbs are treated as functions that take individual-denoting noun phrases
as their arguments. This idea is expressed in lambda calculus for the
transitive verb destroy in (1) below. The arguments of the function are
prefixed with lambdas, and the value, or the output of the function,
follows the lambda terms.
(1) destroy: λx.λy. destroy(y, x)
In order to combine the verb destroy with its arguments, we apply a rule
called function application, which essentially replaces the variables in the
denotation of the predicate and erases the lambda prefixes. Proper names
are the most straightforward individual denoting noun phrases and thus
the representation of the sentence John destroyed Bill would involve roughly
the following representation (here we ignore everything that does not
pertain to the argument saturation of the verbal predicate).
(2)
destroy
λx.λy. destroy (y, x)
Bill
λy. destroy (y, Bill) [by function application]
John
destroy (John, Bill) [by function application]
In addition to simple examples such as the one above, function applica-
tion is the mode of composition for any predicate and its argument. For
example, prepositions combine with noun phrases via function applica-
tion [in [the dark]] as do verbs with clausal complements [knew [that
John destroyed Bill]] and verbal ones [John tried [to destroy Bill]]. Thus
312 L I I N A P Y L K K Ä N E N , J O N A T H A N B R E N N A N , A N D D O U G L A S B E M I S
function application accounts for a vast amount of semantic composi-
tion in natural language and every theory of semantics requires a rule
that accomplishes its task. Consequently, it should be regarded as one of
the core operations that any theory of the brain bases of language should
address.
16.2.2 Predicate modiﬁcation
The gist of function application is that it satisfies the semantic require-
ments of a predicate and makes it more complete. But most expressions
also have parts that are not formally required, i.e. they could be
dropped and the expression would still be grammatical. For instance,
although we could describe The New York Times simply as a newspaper,
we could also describe it as a major national newspaper. There are no
grammatical reasons for why we would ever have to add these adjectives –
unlike with destroy above, which simply could not function grammati-
cally without, say, its object (*John destroyed). The adjectives simply pro-
vide additional, potentially useful information about the noun. The
majority of these types of optional elements are added into expressions
via a rule called predicate modification. Predicate modification builds com-
plex properties from simpler ones. In formal semantics, adjectives and
nouns are both treated as describing properties of individuals, e.g., news-
paper denotes the property of being a newspaper, and major the property
of being major. Predicate modification simply concatenates these proper-
ties, such that major national newspaper ends up meaning “the property of
being major, and national, and a newspaper,” as shown in lambda nota-
tion in (3).
(3)
national
λy. national (y)
newspaper
λx. newspaper (x)
λx. national (x) and
newspaper (x)
[by predicate modification]
major
λz. major (z)
λx. major (x) and national (x) and newspaper (x) [by predicate modification]
In addition to building complex properties of individuals, predicate modi-
fication can also combine any two predicates that describe properties of
the same type of thing. For example, in event-based semantic frameworks
(e.g., Davidson 1967; Kratzer 1996; Parsons 1990), both verbs and adverbs
are thought of as describing properties of events. Thus the mode of com-
position between, say, run and quickly would be a version of predicate
modification, such that the resulting verb phrase would describe events
that are both quick and events of running.
In sum, while function application is the default mode for adding
arguments into a structure, predicate modification is the most basic
The cognitive neuroscience of semantics 313
way to add optional elements. Although natural language semantics
as a whole requires a much more elaborate system than just these two
rules, function application and predicate modification constitute the
nuts and bolts of semantic composition in most theories, and thus
offer clearly defined computations whose neural bases can be charac-
terized within the cognitive neuroscience of language. It is of course
an empirical question whether function application and predicate
modification dissociate in brain activity. If they do not, this would
be a type of null result and not necessarily a motivation for linguists
to revise their theories, but a lack of dissociation would obviously call
into question the assumption that the operations are distinct. In this
type of situation, the brain data would be more compatible with a
theory where semantic composition is achieved via a unified opera-
tion across expression types, as proposed for example by Pietroski
(2002, 2004, 2006). In the long run, this is the type of interaction
between brain experimentation and linguistic theorizing that we
advocate.
16.3 Semantic representations vs. their plausibility given
world knowledge
Theories of formal semantics have a crisp definition of semantic well-
formedness: an expression is semantically well formed if the rules of
composition yield a meaning for it. For example, in the default case,
there is no way for a verb such as arrive, i.e. a function that takes a single
individual-denoting argument, to combine with two such arguments,
given that this predicate only has one argument slot for function applica-
tion to saturate. Thus an expression such as I arrived Helsinki is considered
uninterpretable under this type of theory; to make it interpretable,
another predicate would need to be added, such as the preposition in,
which can then take Helsinki as its argument.
This definition of well-formedness is very different from a layman’s
intuition of what “makes sense,” i.e. an expression can be semantically
well formed in a formal sense even if it means something crazy. For
example, I just ate a cloud is a nonsensical sentence in that the situation it
describes could never happen (unless the world was significantly altered).
However, every native speaker of English should have the intuition that
they know what this sentence means and, in fact, this meaning is easily
computed by the two rules introduced above. In terms of formal seman-
tics, the oddness of the sentence is not revealed until one compares its
semantic representation (computed by the rules) to one’s knowledge of
the world, which dictates that clouds are not edible entities. But crucially,
the sentence is not semantically ill-formed, but rather just ill-fitting to our
world knowledge.
314 L I I N A P Y L K K Ä N E N , J O N A T H A N B R E N N A N , A N D D O U G L A S B E M I S
This conception of semantic well-formedness is dramatically different
from what is generally assumed in neuroimaging and especially in event-
related potentials (ERP) research on semantics. Such brain research has
been overwhelmingly dominated by studies that vary “semantic well-
formedness” or “congruity,” but in the majority of these experiments,
the semantically ill-formed stimuli are not ill-formed in the above
described, formal sense; rather, in terms of linguistic theory, they violate
world knowledge instead. The original ERP study on such violations, by
Kutas and Hillyard (1980), used sentences such as he spread the warm bread
with socks to violate what they called “semantic appropriateness.” These
violations elicited a negative-going ERP peaking around 400 ms, the N400,
a finding that has since been replicated in hundreds of studies. Since the
N400 is elicited by semantically surprising elements, it is commonly
thought of as a semantics-related ERP. However, this notion of “semantics”
is not theoretically grounded, i.e. we are not aware of any theory of
linguistic representation according to which typical N400 sentences
would count as semantically ill-formed (and even if there is such as a
theory, the N400 literature does not reference it). For instance, in the
above he spread the warm bread with socks example, the final word socks
composes without a problem with the preposition with, to yield a meaning
in which socks are used as a spread on bread. Now socks are of course not
edible or spreadable, but in terms of linguistic theory, this is a fact about
the world, not a fact about language. Given that there is no crisp definition
of what “semantics” means in the N400 literature, considering this com-
ponent a semantics-related ERP is not conducive to building a theoretically
grounded model of language in the brain.
It is an empirical question whether N400-type effects could also be
obtained for expressions that are semantically ill-formed in the linguistic
sense. There are a few studies that have run relevant manipulations,
primarily focusing on violations of negative polarity licensing (Drenhaus
et al. 2006; Saddy, Drenhaus, and Frisch 2004; Steinhauer et al. 2010; Xiang,
Dillon, and Phillips 2009). Negative polarity items (NPIs) are expressions
such as ever or any that must occur in the scope of negation1
(e.g, No tourist
ever visited the old harbor vs. *One tourist ever visited the old harbor). Violations of
this licensing condition count as true semantic violations in terms of
linguistic theory, in that if an NPI is not licensed by a suitable operator,
no semantic representation can be built for the sentence. Negative polarity
violations have indeed been reported to elicit N400 effects (Saddy et al.
2004), but also P600 effects (Drenhaus et al. 2006; Xiang et al. 2009) and late
left anterior negativities (Steinhauer et al. 2010). Thus the ERP profile of
these violations has been quite variable and does not easily lend itself to
firm conclusions. Most relevantly for our present purposes, however,
negative polarity violations have exhibited rather different ERP profiles
from world knowledge violations when the two are examined within the
same study (Steinhauer et al. 2010).
The cognitive neuroscience of semantics 315
In sum, most extant research on the cognitive neuroscience of sen-
tence level meaning has operated with only an intuitive notion of
“semantics,” not grounded in any particular theoretical model. It should,
however, be uncontroversial that technical terminology in any field
needs to be clearly defined; otherwise it is unclear what the research is
even about. Given the vast amount of work devoted to carefully charac-
terizing crisp, formal semantic theories, disconnecting the cognitive
neuroscience of semantics from these models is a missed opportunity.
Only by grounding the neurobiology of meaning in theoretical models of
meaning can we move forward to a “predictive mode” of research, where
the properties of a cognitive model guide the experimentation and make
predictions about what phenomena should group together. Without such
grounding, one is left with complex data sets and a layman’s intuition
about what it all may mean.
16.4 The challenge of compositionality
As soon as one couches the brain investigation of semantics in linguistic
theory, a methodological dilemma, however, arises: In most cases, the
semantic complexity of an expression tightly correlates with its syntactic
complexity, and thus it is not obvious how one could ever vary semantic
composition without syntactic confounds. Even worse, linguistic theories
differ in the extent to which syntax and semantics are coupled. In some
theories, every step of the semantic derivation corresponds to a step in the
syntactic derivation (e.g., Heim and Kratzer 1998; Montague 1970). Other
theories assume a weaker coupling between syntax and semantics, allow-
ing certain operations to only apply in the semantics without a corre-
sponding syntactic step (Barker 2002; Jacobson 1999; Hendriks 1988;
Partee and Rooth 1983). And finally, in Jackendoff’s parallel model, syn-
tactic and semantic representations are built by completely independent
mechanisms, creating an architecture that forces no correlation between
the number of syntactic and semantic steps (Jackendoff 2002).2
The dis-
agreement between these theories has to do with the degree of composition-
ality in natural language, i.e. the extent to which the meanings of
expressions are straightforwardly determined by the meanings of their
parts and the syntactic combinatorics.
With this type of uncertainty about the fundamental relationship
between syntax and semantics, how could a cognitive neuroscientist use
these theories to make headway in understanding the brain bases of
semantic composition? In our own research, we have adopted what
might be called a “bite the bullet” approach. First, we have to accept that
there are no expressions that uncontroversially involve semantic compu-
tations that do not correspond to any part of the syntax: even if some
meaning component of an expression does not appear to map onto the
316 L I I N A P Y L K K Ä N E N , J O N A T H A N B R E N N A N , A N D D O U G L A S B E M I S
syntax, one can always postulate a phonologically null syntactic element
that carries that piece of meaning. The question though is, whether such
an analysis makes the right empirical predictions. As discussed in
Pylkkänen (2008), there is great asymmetry in the degree to which this
type of solution works for different cases; it sometimes makes the right
predictions, but often not. As a starting point in our research, we have
aimed to study exactly the expressions that are most likely to involve
syntactically unexpressed semantic operations, even if this dissociation
cannot be definitively proven. As discussed in the next section, our sub-
sequent research has shown that these types of cases pattern differently
from cases where syntax and semantics are uncontroversially coupled,
lending support to the notion that the initial set of test cases did, in fact,
only vary semantics. Thus compositional coupling of syntax and semantics
makes the project of “neurosemantics” a difficult one to get off the
ground, but once some initial progress is made, we believe it may be
possible for brain data to actually contribute to debates about the relation-
ship between syntax and semantics.
16.5 The Anterior Midline Field (AMF) as a correlate
of semantic composition
16.5.1 Varying semantic composition: Semantic mismatch
Although much of natural language appears strongly compositional, there
are classes of expressions whose meanings appear richer than their syntax.
Perhaps the best studied example is so-called complement coercion, illus-
trated in (4) below.
(4) a. The professor began the article.
b. The boy finished the pizza.
c. The trekkers survived the mountain.
When native speakers are queried about the meanings of these sentences,
they typically report for (4a) that the professor began reading the article,
for (4b) that the boy finished eating the pizza and for (4c) that the trekkers
survived climbing the mountain. Reading, eating, or climbing do not,
however, figure in the lexical material of these expressions. Thus where
do these implicit activity senses come from? They are typically thought of
as arising from a certain semantic mismatch between the verbs and their
direct objects. Semantically, each of the verbs in (4) selects a direct object
that describes some type of event or activity: one generally begins, fin-
ishes, or survives doing something. However, none of the direct objects in (4)
describe events, rather, they all denote entities. This kind of situation is
formally considered a semantic “type mismatch” and in the default case,
type mismatch leads to ungrammaticality. However, the sentences in
(4) are all grammatical and thus the type mismatch must be somehow
The cognitive neuroscience of semantics 317
resolved. Descriptively, the resolution appears to involve the semantic
insertion of an implicit activity that can mediate between the verb and
the otherwise ill-fitting object NP. Formally, the complement of the verb
(the object NP) is thought to “coerce” into an event meaning (Jackendoff
1997; Pustejovsky 1995), such that semantic composition can succeed. This
type of analysis treats coercion as a purely semantic meaning-adding
operation, with no consequences for the syntax.3
Coercion does, however, have consequences for online processing:
numerous studies have shown that coercion expressions take longer to
process than control expressions involving no coercion (for a review, see
Pylkkänen and McElree 2006). This psycholinguistic evidence provides
empirical support for the hypothesis that coercion expressions do, in
fact, involve some type of extra computation, absent in more transpar-
ently compositional expressions. Given that the processing of comple-
ment coercion had already been well studied behaviorally, we used it as
the initial test case in our attempt to identify a neural correlate of purely
semantic combinatoric processing.
To measure brain activity, our research uses magnetoencephalography
(MEG), which offers the best combination of both spatial and temporal
resolution of existing cognitive neuroscience techniques. MEG measures
the magnetic fields generated by neuronal currents. The primary differ-
ence between MEG and EEG is that in MEG, the locations of the current
generators can be estimated reasonably accurately given that magnetic
fields pass through the different structures of the brain undistorted, con-
trary to electric potentials. Typically, the current sources of MEG record-
ings are modeled either as focal sources (so-called single dipoles) or as
distributed patches of activation on the cortex (typically minimum norm
estimates) (Hansen, Kringelbach, and Salmelin 2010). The intensities and
latencies of these current sources then function as the primary dependent
measures of most MEG studies, although an EEG-style analysis of sensor-
data without source localization is also always an option.
When we contrasted coercion expressions (the journalist began the article)
with non-coercive control sentences (the journalist wrote the article) during an
MEG recording, we observed increased activity for coercion in a prefrontal
midline MEG field, dubbed the Anterior Midline Field (AMF) (Figure 16.1).
Source localization indicated the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) as
the generating brain region of this magnetic field. No such effect was
observed for implausible control sentences, suggesting different brain bases
for the computation of coercion and the detection of poor real-world fit.
These complement coercion findings established a starting point for our
research on the neural bases of semantic composition. Our subsequent
studies have then aimed to narrow down the possible functional interpre-
tations of this activity. Figure 16.1 summarizes all of our AMF results so far.
First, we examined whether the AMF effect generalizes to other coercion
constructions, and found that it is also observed for a different variant of
318 L I I N A P Y L K K Ä N E N , J O N A T H A N B R E N N A N , A N D D O U G L A S B E M I S
complement coercion (Pylkkänen et al. 2009) as well as for two different
types of aspectual coercion (Brennan and Pylkkänen 2008, 2010a). These
findings ruled out the hypothesis that the AMF reflects processing specific
to complement coercion.
We have also examined the AMF in a violation paradigm (Pylkkänen,
Oliveri, and Smart 2009), to better connect our findings to ERP research
which has been dominated by this type of design. In this study, we again
used semantic mismatch, but of a sort that cannot be resolved by a pro-
ductive rule, but rather results in semantic ill-formedness (in the linguistic
sense, i.e. no well-formed representation can be built). These semantic
violations were contrasted both with violations of world knowledge (sim-
ilar to the “semantic violations” of the N400 literature) and with well-
formed control expressions, in order to assess in an ERP-style violation
paradigm whether semantic violations but not world knowledge
Figure 16.1 Summary of all our AMF results to date, including the typical MEG response to a
visual word presentation in a sentential context (top panel). The upper left corner depicts the
AMF ﬁeld pattern and a typical localization. In the stimulus examples, the critical word is
underlined.
The cognitive neuroscience of semantics 319
violations would affect the AMF, as would be predicted if this activity
reflected the composition of semantic representations but not the evalua-
tion of their real-world fit. Our results indeed patterned according to this
prediction: semantic violations elicited increased AMF amplitudes, while
world knowledge violations generated a different type of effect.
Thus our initial set of experiments employed resolvable and unresolv-
able semantic mismatch in order to vary semantic composition while
keeping syntax maximally constant. These studies yielded highly consis-
tent results, implicating the AMF MEG component as potentially relevant
for the construction of complex meaning. This effect demonstrated task-
independence (Pylkkänen et al. 2009) and was insensitive to world knowl-
edge (Pylkkänen, Oliveri, and Smart 2009). But of course these results do
not yet show that we have isolated activity reflecting semantic composi-
tion in some general sense, as opposed to activity that plays a role in
mismatch resolution but does not participate in more ordinary composi-
tion. Further, the psychological nature of coercion operations is vastly
underdetermined by traditional linguistic data (e.g., judgments of gram-
maticality and truth-value); in some sense “coercion” and “type-shifting”
are descriptive labels for computations that matter for interpretation but
do not appear to have a syntactic nature. In other words, although
coercion rules are traditionally thought of as operating within the com-
positional semantic system, it is difficult to demonstrate this empirically,
i.e. for example to rule out the possibility that these meaning shifts might
be essentially pragmatic in nature. Having discovered that coercion
affects a particular brain response, i.e. the AMF, it becomes possible to
investigate whether the same response would also be affected by simpler
manipulations of semantic composition, involving no mismatch resolu-
tion. If ordinary “run-of-the-mill” composition were also to modulate the
AMF, this would show that the role of the AMF is not limited to mismatch
resolution and would also offer empirical support for the hypothesis that
coercion operations involve semantic computations similar to those
involved in transparently compositional expressions. The research sum-
marized below aimed to assess this by studying very simple cases of
composition, involving only the intersective combination of a noun
and an adjective.
16.5.2 Simple composition: Bringing in syntax and the left ATL
Our study on simple composition constitutes, to our knowledge, the first
neurolinguistic investigation directly targeting one of the core semantic
operations outlined in Section 16.2 above. Specifically, we aimed to mea-
sure the MEG activity associated with predicate modification (Bemis and
Pylkkänen 2011). Contrary to most extant brain research on syntax and
semantics, which has generally employed full sentences involving com-
plex structures such as center-embedding or semantic anomalies (for
320 L I I N A P Y L K K Ä N E N , J O N A T H A N B R E N N A N , A N D D O U G L A S B E M I S
reviews, see Kaan and Swaab 2002, and Lau et al. 2008), our study employed
minimal phrases invoking exactly one step of semantic composition. The
critical stimulus was an object-denoting noun that was either preceded by
a semantically composable color adjective (red boat) or by consonant string
activating no lexical meaning (xkq boat). Subjects viewed these phrases (and
other control stimuli) and then decided whether or not a subsequent
picture matched the verbal stimulus. If the role of the AMF is limited to
mismatch resolution, it clearly should not be affected by this maximally
simple manipulation. In contrast, if the AMF reflects aspects of semantic
composition quite generally, nouns preceded by adjectives should elicit
increased AMF activity. The latter prediction was robustly confirmed: a
clear AMF amplitude increase was observed for the adjective–noun combi-
nations relative to the isolated nouns, ruling out the hypothesis that the
AMF is purely mismatch related.
But predicate modification is of course not the only combinatory oper-
ation varied in this manipulation: each adjective–noun pair also made up a
syntactic phrase. Thus the above contrast should also elicit effects related
to the syntactic side of the composition, if this is indeed something sepa-
rable from the semantic combinatorial effects. We did, in fact, also observe
a second effect for the complex phrases, and in a location familiar from a
series of prior studies. This effect localized in the left anterior temporal
lobe (ATL), which has been shown by several imaging studies as eliciting
increased activation for sentences as opposed to unstructured lists of
words (Mazoyer et al. 1993; Stowe et al. 1998; Vandenberghe et al. 2002;
Friederici et al. 2000; Humphries et al. 2006; Rogalsky and Hickok 2008).
This body of work has hypothesized that the left ATL is the locus of basic
syntactic composition, with Broca’s region only participating in more
complex operations. This interpretation is further corroborated by imag-
ing results of our own, showing that while subjects listen to a narrative,
activity in the left ATL correlates with the number of syntactic constituents
completed by each word (Brennan et al. 2012). Thus the combination of
the results reviewed so far suggests the following working hypothesis: the
AMF generator, i.e. the vmPFC, and the left ATL are the primary loci of
basic combinatorial processing, with the vmPFC computing semantic and
the left ATL syntactic structure.
The hypothesis just articulated raises a puzzle, though, regarding the
relationship between our results on the vmPFC and the just mentioned
imaging studies contrasting sentences vs. word lists. Clearly, the sen-
tence vs. word list contrast varies not only syntactic composition but
also semantic composition, yet none of the studies using this contrast
have reported effects in the vmPFC. This is obviously incompatible with
our semantic composition hypothesis regarding this region. But the
sentence vs. word list studies have also used a different technique
from our research, measuring slowly arising hemodynamic activity as
opposed to electromagnetic activity, which can be measured at a
The cognitive neuroscience of semantics 321
millisecond temporal resolution, matching the speed of language pro-
cessing. To assess whether a vmPFC effect for sentences over word lists
would be observed in MEG, we conducted an MEG version of the tradi-
tional imaging design (Brennan and Pylkkänen 2012). Our results
indeed revealed a clear amplitude increase in the vmPFC for sentences,
conforming to the composition hypothesis. An effect was also seen in
the left ATL, replicating the prior imaging results. While questions
remain about why hemodynamic methods and MEG should yield differ-
ent results here, the picture emerging from our MEG findings is encour-
aging and begins to have the shape of an elementary theory about the
neural bases of syntactic and semantic composition, grounded in lin-
guistic theory.
16.5.3 Challenges and open questions
16.5.3.1 Relation to hemodynamic and neuropsychological data
Our MEG research so far suggests a prominent role for the generating
region of the AMF in language processing. However, if the role of this
midline prefrontal region is as basic as semantic composition, how come
this area has not already figured in neuroimaging studies on sentence
processing? As just discussed, it is possible that MEG may be better suited
for capturing this activity than hemodynamic methods, given our find-
ings on the sentence vs. word list paradigm which yields a vmPFC effect
in MEG but not in fMRI or PET (granted that we have not yet conducted a
study with the same materials and subjects across the techniques). One
possible reason for this difference lies in the better time resolution of
MEG: a short-lived time-locked effect lasting less than 100ms should
naturally be difficult to capture with techniques whose temporal resolu-
tion is on the scale of several seconds. Further, fMRI in particular is
limited when it comes to measuring signal from the vmPFC and the
orbitofrontal cortex in general. This is due to the proximity of these
regions to the sinuses, which leads to so-called susceptibility artifacts,
resulting in significant signal loss in orbitofrontal regions (Ojemann et al.
1997). Despite these limitations, however, several hemodynamic studies
have shown interpretation-related effects in the vmPFC, both in PET
(e.g., Maguire, Frith, and Morris 1999; Nathaniel-James and Frith 2002)
and in fMRI (Nieuwland, Petersson, and Van Berkum 2007). Thus it is not
the case that our findings are entirely without precedent in the neuro-
imaging literature.
One type of evidence that does not suffer from the artifact issues
described above pertains to neuropsychological data. Do patients with
ventromedial prefrontal damage suffer severe language processing defi-
cits, of the sort one would expect of a person who has lost their ability
to construct complex linguistic meanings? The most simple-minded
322 L I I N A P Y L K K Ä N E N , J O N A T H A N B R E N N A N , A N D D O U G L A S B E M I S
prediction of the semantic composition hypothesis might be that such
patients should not be able to understand anything or be able to produce
any coherent sentences. This prediction is certainly not borne out: lan-
guage problems are not the predominant issue for this patient population.
Instead, their most salient impairments have to do with appropriateness of
social behavior, decision making, and emotion regulation (Burgess and
Wood 1990; Grafman et al. 1996; Barrash et al. 2000; Berlin et al. 2004;
Anderson et al. 2006; Koenigs and Tranel 2007). Perhaps because language
problems do not present prominently, language skills are typically not
even reported, or they may be informally commented on as “normal” (e.g.,
Anderson et al. 2006). There is though one body of research on vmPFC
patients that has focused on language processing, specifically on sarcasm
and irony. In this work vmPFC damage has been found to lead to deficits in
comprehending sarcasm, a finding that has been related to the role of the
vmPFC in theory-of-mind processing (Shamay-Tsoory, Tomer, and Aharon-
Peretz 2005; Shamay-Tsoory, Tibi-Elhanany, Aharon-Peretz 2006). This
finding is obviously related to semantic processing, but not at the very
basic level that our most recent simple composition results suggest
(Section 16.5.2).
What then, to make of these relatively sparse neurolinguistic data on
vmPFC patients in light of the semantic composition hypothesis of the
AMF? At least two considerations are important to note here, one metho-
dological and the other theoretical. The methodological consideration is
that although MEG systematically localizes the AMF in the vmPFC (with
some variation on the anterior–posterior axis), this localization is a source
model and not necessarily the absolute truth. For example, so far most of
our source localizations have used a smoothed average cortex (provided by
BESA, the source localization software), which does not include the medial
wall. In this kind of source model, activity in the anterior cingulate, for
example, might be projected onto ventromedial prefrontal cortex. Thus it
is not yet obvious that vmPFC patients are necessarily the right clinical
population to consider. Clearly, the localization of the AMF will need to be
further assessed with hemodynamic methods, although as just reviewed,
this approach presents challenges of its own.
The theoretical consideration has to do with the precise predictions of
the semantic composition hypothesis. What should a person’s linguistic
performance look like if they have lost their ability for semantic composi-
tion but have intact syntax and lexical-semantic processing? The answer is
far from obvious. Such a person would have a combinatory system, i.e. the
syntax, and they would understand the meanings of words. Thus it is
possible that they might be able to reasonably work out what sentences
mean, only failing in subtler situations. Thus perhaps the only clear pre-
diction of the semantic composition hypothesis is that a person without
the relevant region should show some semantic deficits. Whether vmPFC
patients fit this profile is currently unclear; assessing this would require
The cognitive neuroscience of semantics 323
sophisticated linguistic testing perhaps focusing on semantic phenomena
that are not transparently reflected in the syntax.
16.5.3.2 Domain-generality
One of the most fundamental questions regarding the neural architecture of
language is the extent to which the mechanisms employed by language are
specific to language or also used in other domains. Localization wise, our
findings on the possible brain bases of semantic composition have been quite
surprising: the midline prefrontal regions that are modeled as the AMF
source are not generally thought of as “language regions.” Instead, these
areas, and the vmPFC specifically, are prominently associated with various
types of non-linguistic higher cognition, such as emotion (Bechara, Damasio,
and Damasio 2000; Damasio 1994), decision making (Wallis 2007), represen-
tation of reward value (Schoenbaum, Roesch, and Stalnaker 2006), and social
cognition, including theory-of-mind (Amodio and Frith 2006; Baron-Cohen
and Ring 1994; Baron-Cohen et al. 1994; Gallagher and Frith 2003; Krueger
et al. 2009; Rowe et al. 2001). Thus it seems plausible that the AMF may reflect
computations that span across multiple domains, a speculation we already
put forth in the first AMF paper (Pylkkänen and McElree 2007) and have later
refined (Pylkkänen 2008; Pylkkänen, Oliveri, and Smart 2009). A more
specific way to put this hypothesis is that the AMF reflects semantic compo-
sition and that semantic composition employs mechanisms also used in
other domains. To test this, our on-going research is aimed at assessing
whether the AMF composition effects extend to combinatory phenomena
in non-linguistic domains.
16.6 Looking ahead
Moving forward, here is what we would like to not see happen in the
cognitive neuroscience of semantics: for neuroscientists to “reinvent the
wheel” when it comes to cognitive models of semantic representation. We
understand that linguistic theory offers a tremendous amount of detail,
which may seem daunting to try to relate to neurobiological data. Thus it
may be tempting to flatten some of those distinctions when aiming to
characterize the brain bases of linguistic functions, as in, for example,
Peter Hagoort’s model, where all combinatory operations of language are
treated as examples of a general “unification” function (Hagoort, 2005).
We actually think it is quite possible that the brain performs composition
in various domains in rather similar ways – this intuition is largely what
drives our work on the domain generality of the AMF – but we do not
believe that a flat cognitive model is the right kind of theory to guide us
when designing experiments. If we do not look for certain (theoretically
well-motivated) distinctions in the brain, we certainly will not find them,
should they, in fact, be there.
324 L I I N A P Y L K K Ä N E N , J O N A T H A N B R E N N A N , A N D D O U G L A S B E M I S
To conclude, natural language meaning exhibits many fascinating phe-
nomena, most of which one is not consciously aware of without engaging
in the formal study of semantics. If theoretical semantics and the cognitive
neuroscience of semantics are not in communication with each other, we
will never understand how the brain achieves the astounding task of
comprehending and producing the meanings of human language in all
their glory.
The cognitive neuroscience of semantics 325
17
Modularity and
descent-with-modiﬁcation
Gary F. Marcus,
Cristina D. Rabaglia, and
Hugh Rabagliati
17.1 Introduction
In computer science and engineering, the idea of modular design is
axiomatic (Baldwin and Clark 2000). Complex systems are made up of
specialized subcomponents designed for particular functions. A modern
computer, for instance, includes not just a domain-general central pro-
cessing unit (itself constructed out of modular subcomponents) but also a
wide variety of specialized circuits dedicated to tasks like rendering
graphics and producing sound effects; much the same can be said for
virtually all of the world’s complex computer programs.
There is ample evidence that many biological structures are similarly
modular, at physiological and genetic levels (Beldade and Brakefield
2003; Gerhart and Kirschner 1997; Patthy 2003; Schlosser and Wagner
2004; Schwartz and Olson 1999; Wagner, Pavlicev, and Cheverud
2007). For example, systems such as the vertebrae of the spine consist
of serially repeated subcomponents, while the body as a whole consists of
specialized systems devoted to tasks such as circulation, digestion, and
respiration.
Mental and neural structures,1
too, might be modular in structure (Fodor
1983; Lenneberg 1967; Marr 1982), and such modularity might be an essen-
tial or highly probable aspect of the evolution of complex systems, at both
cognitive (Cosmides and Tooby 1994; Pinker 1997) and neural levels
(Calabretta et al. 2003; Calabretta et al. 2000; Redies and Puelles 2001).2
Consistent with this idea, the brain in many ways appears to carry hall-
marks of specialization. The adult human neocortex, for example, con-
tains a large number (52 by Brodmann’s count) of “areas” that can be
distinguished cytoarchitectonically in terms of connection patterns and
An earlier version of this chapter appeared as G. F. Marcus (2006) Cognitive Architecture and Descent with Modiﬁcation.
Cognition. 101, 443–465.
distributions of cell types. Felleman and van Essen’s (1991) justly famous
map of the interconnections in the visual part of a macaque brain hints at a
staggering degree of highly focused connectivity (Sporns and Kotter 2004).
Comparable studies have not been done in infants, but the available
evidence strongly suggests that basic cortical structures and pathways
are largely established by birth (Bates et al. 2002; Shankle et al. 1998).
Yet, the twin notions of neural and cognitive modularity have remained
deeply controversial within cognitive science and cognitive neuroscience.
There are ongoing debates about the definition of modules (Coltheart
1999), and protracted debates about the empirical evidence within psycho-
logical domains such as sentence processing (Ferreira and Clifton 1986;
Spivey et al. 2002; Tanenhaus et al. 1995), reading (Coltheart 1999; Shatil
and Share 2003), music (Peretz and Coltheart 2003), and navigation
(Hermer and Spelke 1996; Learmonth, Nadel, and Newcombe 2002).
Similar questions arise concerning the neural substrates for processing
of faces (Kanwisher 2000; Tarr and Gauthier 2000). Furthermore, there are
considerable debates about the extent to which any modular structure that
is found in mature adults is inborn or the product of experience (Pinker
1997; Thomas and Karmiloff-Smith 2002; Tooby and Cosmides 1992).
The purpose of this brief chapter is to consider two competing views
about what modularity might consist of, which we will refer to as sui generis
modularity (from the Latin “of its own kind”) and descent-with-modification
modularity. According to the former view, each cognitive (or neural)
domain would be an entity entirely unto itself. A language module (or
language acquisition device), for example, would owe nothing to other
cognitive devices. Audition and vision might similarly be seen as wholly
separate. According to the latter theory, which takes its name from
Darwin’s (1859) suggestion that “existing forms of life are the descendants
by true generation of pre-existing forms,” current cognitive (or neural)
modules are to be understood as being the product of evolutionary
changes from ancestral cognitive (or neural) modules.
17.1.1 Challenges to sui generis modularity
If modules were taken to be (say) encapsulated computational devices
evolved for specific functions,3
it would be natural to think of them as
being separate at every level. Cosmides and Tooby, for instance, once
wrote that “There is no more reason to expect any two cognitive mecha-
nisms to be alike than to expect the eye and the spleen, or the pancreas and
the pituitary to be alike.”
Nonetheless, although any two putatively distinct modules presumably
must be functionally distinct in order to count as modules, they need not –
and we will suggest should not – be presumed to be evolutionarily or
genetically sui generis. In what follows, we will suggest that many argu-
ments that seem to militate against modularity per se really argue only
Modularity and descent-with-modiﬁcation 327
against an extreme, sui generis version of modularity, of little force against
a more nuanced version of modularity.
Why should one be skeptical about sui generis modularity? In the first
instance, even in the most “modular” of non-cognitive biological systems
(such as the heart), current systems owe much to evolutionary tinkering, in
many instances sharing materials (e.g., proteins and cell types) and fabrica-
tion techniques (e.g., genetic cascades for establishing positional axes) with
other biological systems – and there is no principled reason to expect this to
be any different in the brain. Furthermore, in comparison to the period in
which (say) eye and spleen have diverged, the time course over which many
putative contemporary modules (e.g., for acquiring grammar or for intuitive
psychology, the assessing of the beliefs and desires of other people) might
plausibly have evolved is relatively short, a time span that perhaps points
more to shared lineage than sheer de novo innovation.
In keeping with this, a number of empirical facts seems to challenge the
extreme sui generis view. For example, whatever the neural substrates of
proposed modules such as language and intuitive psychology may be, they
are likely to emerge from relatively similar bits of six-layered neocortex
(Brodmann 1909). They may well occupy (partly) disjoint parts of brain
tissue, but it seems likely that the neural tissue that they rely on have at
least something in common. (See Kingsbury and Finlay 2001 for a related
suggestion.)
Sui generis modularity faces further empirical challenge from the fact
that there is considerable overlap in sets of genes that are expressed in
different cortical areas (Liu, Dwyer, and O’Leary 2000). Distinct cortical
areas are least quantitatively distinguishable, and may well vary both in
the combinatorics of their gene expression and in their connectivity at the
circuit level, but these differences appear to be superimposed upon a
common background that is widely shared across the brain, and not con-
sistent with a picture in which each neurocognitive module would be
structured in ways that reflected only adaptive functional constraints
that substantially differed from one module to the next.
Likewise, few genetic disorders have been demonstrably and uniquely
associated with a single cognitive domain (Hill 2001; Kadesjö and Gillberg
2001; Kaplan et al. 1998; Karmiloff-Smith 1998), and few of the cognitive
disorders that might be construed as domain-specific can be uniquely
associated with a particular genetic anomaly.
Furthermore, it might be argued that there is not enough room in the
genome to specify the detailed circuitry of each complex human cognitive
domain (e.g, language, intentional understanding, etc.) independently
(Bates 1999; Ehrlich 2000), especially given how small the genetic differ-
ence between humans and the nearest non-speaking cousins, chimpan-
zees (less than 2% of genetic material: Ebersberger et al. 2002; King and
Wilson 1975).
328 G . F . M A R C U S , C . D . R A B A G L I A , A N D H . R A B A G L I A T I
A further challenge comes from neuroimaging results. Despite a tradi-
tion of neuroimaging that extends back to the early 1980s (Raichle 1998) it
is difficult to uniquely identify particular neural substrates with particular
cognitive tasks, and difficult, except in the lower levels of perception, to
localize particular tasks to unique areas (Poeppel 1996; Uttal 2001).
Complex tasks are often subserved by multiple areas (Cabeza and Nyberg
2000), and individual brain regions often participate in the analysis of
more than one type of content. Complex computations might consist of
novel configurations of lower-level (modular) structures, rather than
wholly proprietary circuitry. Views of the neural substrates of language
(discussed in more detail below), are increasingly moving towards views of
language as the product of many different physically distinct subsystems,
many of which may also contribute to non-linguistic aspects of cognition
and motor control (Friederici and Kotz 2003; Lieberman 2002; Poeppel and
Hickok 2004; Ullman 2001b).
While none of these facts is devastating to the sui generis view that the
mind consists of a large number of modules each operating according to
entirely different principles, each poses serious challenges.
17.1.2 Descent-with-modiﬁcation modularity
Considerations like these might lead one to abandon modularity alto-
gether, or to suggest that modules be seen only “as the end product of
development rather than its starting point” (Elman et al. 1996).4
But aban-
doning modularity altogether would introduce its own set of problems. For
instance, a view in which modularity is completely absent would face
challenges in explaining why children excel at language at an age (Crain
1991) in which they are otherwise cognitively limited (e.g., well before
they can pass classical theory of mind tasks, Baron-Cohen, Leslie, and Frith
1985), and also faces challenges in explaining observations about apparent
constraints in neuroanatomy (e.g. the systematicity of Brodmann’s areas
and the Felleman–Van Essen wiring diagram); more than that, an entirely
non-modular view would seemingly suggest (with little a priori motiva-
tion) that the brain/mind is the only major physiological system with no
internal structure.
Descent-with-modification offers a way out. Although modules are, by
definition (Coltheart 1999; Fodor 1983) computationally distinct, they need
not be genetically unrelated. Although evolutionary pressures can clearly
lead distinct physiological structures to diverge and specialize, many puta-
tive modules – especially those that have evolved relatively recently (e.g., a
language faculty) – might be expected to have diverged fairly recently from
common origins.
Consider, by way of analogy, the hand and the foot, two functionally
and physically distinct systems that have diverged relatively recently from
a common ancestral appendage. The two are known to grow through
Modularity and descent-with-modiﬁcation 329
largely – though by no means entirely – overlapping sets of genes
(Margulies, Kardia, and Innis 2001). This results from mechanisms such
as “duplication and divergence” (Duboule and Wilkins 1998; Gerhart and
Kirschner 1997; Marcus 2004b), by which evolution creates new systems by
making modified copies of old systems, whether at the level of a single
gene, or by the force of genetic cascade at the level of complex structures
such as limbs or (it appears) brain areas (Kaas 1987; Krubitzer 2000). An
informal way to think about this is that the hand and the foot are both
products of generative systems for creating vertebrate appendages.
As another example, some of our earliest vertebrate ancestors had only a
single type of photoreceptor pigment, which sufficed for monochromatic
vision. Around 400 million years ago, early in the history of vertebrates,
before the modern classes like mammals, birds, and amphibians emerged,
the genetic recipe for that pigment was, by sheer chance, duplicated.
When one copy of the randomly duplicated gene diverged (i.e. changed
slightly through some process of mutation), a new kind of pigment devel-
oped, one that was sensitive to a different part of the light spectrum. With
two types, it became possible (given some further machinery to interpret
the output of the photoreceptors) to discriminate shorter wavelengths of
light (like blue and purple) from longer wavelengths of light (like red and
green). About 35 million years ago, one of our primate ancestors branched
away from other mammals when there was a second gene duplication, this
time of the genetic recipe for the long-wavelength (“red”) color pigment. A
third duplication and divergence led to a third type of color pigment, and
what is known as trichromatic vision (Bowmaker 1998).
Distinct neural modules, too, may be the product of divergent copies of
ancestral cognitive systems. Such a notion, although vague, can help make
sense of many of the biological considerations raised in the previous sec-
tion. It leads, for instance, to the idea that distinct neuro-/cognitive modules
could overlap considerably in their genetic substrates. If each module were
built according to its own set of genes, it would be unexplained why there is
so much overlap between genes in (say) frontal cortex and the genes in (say)
occipital cortex. If we instead think of frontal cortex and occipital cortex as
diverged variation on a common theme for neural computation, the large
degree of genetic overlap no longer seems surprising.
17.2 Biological considerations
Descent-with-modification helps make sense of the considerable phyloge-
netic continuity that has been documented in recent years, in terms of
comparative psychology (Cheney and Seyfarth 1990; Hauser 2000;
Tomasello and Herrmann 2010), comparative neuroanatomy (Gannon
et al. 1998), and comparative genomics (Ruvolo 2004; Waterston et al.
2002). Although the linguistic, social and cultural capacities of humans
330 G . F . M A R C U S , C . D . R A B A G L I A , A N D H . R A B A G L I A T I
differ enormously from chimpanzees (Kako 1999; Richerson and Boyd
2004; Terrace et al. 1980; Povinelli and Giambrone 2001; Tomasello and
Call 1997), these differences complement a shared psychological
(Diamond 1992; Tomasello and Herrmann 2010) and biological foundation
(Carroll 2003; Gagneux and Varki 2001), suggesting an overall view of
evolutionary innovation imposed upon a shared background.
Beyond comparative considerations, we should expect evidence for
descent-with-modification even within a single species. For example, accord-
ing to the descent-with-modification view, rather than expecting each
cognitive system to be a separate black box, we might expect distinct
cognitive (or neural) modules to be evolutionarily and genetically related.5
In this way, the descent view helps make sense of the curious conjunction
of selective impairment and co-morbidity in both inherited and acquired
neurocognitive disorders. On a sui generis view, co-morbidity is more or less
an accident; on the descent view, it’s an expected outcome. At the same
time, the descent picture also predicts (correctly) that there should be rare
cases of selective impairment, corresponding to impairments in mecha-
nisms that have been modified relative to common ancestry.
Cellular level analyses lend additional support. As mentioned earlier, at
the neural level, the neocortex (the area of the brain most strongly asso-
ciated with higher level cognition) is – to a first approximation – largely
similar across its entire extent. With few exceptions, the neocortex is
essentially a thin (3–4 mm) six-layered sheet, with each layer having
certain characteristic properties that seem largely shared; the 4th layer
takes input from the thalamus, layers 5 and 6 send output to subcortical
structures. In terms of structure, layer 1 is made up largely of thin white
fibers, 5 and 6 largely of pyramidal cells, and so forth (Douglas and Martin
1998). The brain is filled with repeated motifs (Sporns, Tononi, and
Edelman 2002) such as topographic maps (essentially sets of parallel neu-
ral wiring) that occur throughout the cortex (Kaas 1987; Kaas and Collins
2001). Repeated structural motifs and common cellular components point
to modules as different configurations of common computational stock,
rather than entirely independent devices with no common components.
As Todd Preuss (2000) and others have argued, such broad similarities by
no means establish complete uniformity – different cortical areas vary in
quantitative factors such as thickness (Ramón y Cajal, DeFelipe, and Jones
1988) and may well have different functions and even different micro-
circuitry within – but they do anchor the point that there is considerable
overlap in the developmental process. Different cortical areas are, it would
appear, better seen as variants on a theme than as components generated
sui generis, independently of the evolutionary and genetic history of their
neighbors.
Consistent with this, the expression of genes across cortical areas is
remarkably uniform. Contemporary research has identified a unique
genetic marker for the limbic system (part of the paleocortex), and
Modularity and descent-with-modiﬁcation 331
several markers that are distributed in different proportion across the
cortex (e.g., FGF8, distributed in greater proportion in the front of the
cortex than the back, Fukuchi-Shimogori 2001), but the vast majority of
genes, perhaps more than 99%, that are expressed in any given region of
cortex are expressed throughout the cortex. There may well be subtle
differences in the concentrations of the protein products of those genes,
but such differences once again point to parametric variation, not to
entirely new suites of genes with developmental programs that are sui
generis.
One reaches the same conclusion looking a level higher, at the distribu-
tion of cell types. Estimates about the exact number of cell types in the
brain are notoriously variable, ranging from thousands to hundreds of
thousands (Anderson 1992), but to a first approximation there is again
relatively little difference across the cortex. Upper bound estimates of the
number of cell types in the brain rely on counting parametric variants as
distinct – a neuron with a bushy dendrite is counted separately from a
neuron with a sparser dendrite, and that difference is multiplied by the
differences in neurotransmitters types (e.g., GABA versus glutamate), the
differences in channel distributions (sodium versus potassium or both),
and so forth. However one counts, the variation among neuronal cell types
can be traced to common ancestry (Striedter 2005).
17.3 Language as case study
17.3.1 Language and cognitive processes
Consider language – the canonical putative module – and its relation to
cognitive systems. At the cognitive level, at least five considerations sug-
gest that there is overlap between the mechanisms and representations of
language and the mechanisms and representations of other cognitive
domains: the nature of memory and automaticity, the specificity of
sequence learning and abstract hierarchical representations, and the
nature of linguistic and non-linguistic representations of space and time.
17.3.1.1 Language and memory
Language, like any aspect of cognition, relies heavily on memory; the
physical substrates for the memory that is implicated in language may
or may not overlap with the physical substrates for memory in other
content domains, but it is clear that there are many shared properties.
For example, in contrast to the memory of modern digital computers
which is typically addressed by location, human memory, whether for
language or other domains, is addressed by content (Martin and McElree
2008; McElree, Foraker, and Dyer 2003). Likewise, there is now consider-
able evidence that memory in language may well be subject to the same
kinds of influences as memory in other domains, including similarity-
332 G . F . M A R C U S , C . D . R A B A G L I A , A N D H . R A B A G L I A T I
based interference effects (Gordon et al. 2006; Gordon, Hendrick, and
Levine 2002; Van Dyke 2007; Van Dyke and McElree 2006), and effects of
representational complexity on retrieval (Hofmeister 2010). As one of us
recently argued elsewhere (Marcus 2004a), language may rely on a human-
specific organization for memory (i.e. a new data structure), but the under-
lying mechanisms for the encoding, storage, and retrieval of memory in
language may overlap considerably with underlying mechanisms for the
encoding, storage, and retrieval of memory in other domains that are
shared across the vertebrate world. There is also evidence that language
may draw on both procedural and declarative memory systems shared
with other domains (Ullman 2004).
17.3.1.2 Automatization
Language may, like other domains, rely to an important extent on a
process of gradual automatization through repeated practice that is
akin to the automatization in other domains (Kawachi 2002). The acquis-
ition of morphological rules – in adults at least – appears to obey classic
learning curves characteristic of procedural skill acquisition in other,
non-linguistic domains (Ferman et al. 2009).
17.3.1.3 Language and sequencing
Language is in no small part a problem of sequencing, and it is possible
(though rarely considered within generative linguistics) that the machi-
nery for sequencing linguistic material extends to or adapts other preex-
isting machinery for sequencing.
Recent imaging work suggests that subjects trained on an artificial
grammar show overlapping (but not identical) activation for artificial
grammar sequences and syntactic processing (Hoen et al. 2006;
Petersson, Folia, and Hagoort 2010). Also suggestive of cross-domain over-
lap in mechanisms for sequencing, Christiansen et al. (2010) found that,
after training on a visuo-spatial symbolic artificial grammar, agrammatic
aphasics were significantly worse at classifying novel strings than age,
education, and general fluid intelligence matched controls. Similarly, a
tantalizing (albeit preliminary) training study suggests that training in
non-cognitive sequencing tasks may to some extent facilitate recovery of
syntactic processing in aphasics (Hoen et al. 2003),6
indicating some sort of
common cognitive substrate between these two types of sequencing.
17.3.1.4 Representational underpinnings
Many of language’s foundational representational resources – such as the
ability to represent abstract variables, distinctions between kinds and
individuals, and the capacity to represent structured, hierarchical relation-
ships between elements (Marcus 2001) – play a pivotal role in a wide
variety of cognitive domains, ranging from motor planning to music
(Jackendoff 2009; Steedman 2002).
Modularity and descent-with-modiﬁcation 333
17.3.1.5 Representations of space and time
Cognitive mechanisms for spatial and temporal representation seem to
run deeply through the structure of our linguistic system (Fauconnier and
Turner 2002; Lakoff and Johnson 1980; Landau and Jackendoff 1993;
Pinker 1989). Spatial and temporal relations are grammatically marked
through prepositions, tense, and aspect, while metaphors for space and
time pervade language. For example, spatial terms are often co-opted to
describe temporal extent, as with the English word long, which was
extended from a spatial to temporal description (Lakoff and Johnson
1980). Yet interestingly, spatial and temporal representations in language
and cognition are not isomorphic. Tenses and aspects vary across lan-
guages, not all languages code the same spatial relations, and our ability
to represent certain spatial relations does not seem to depend on the
language (Munnich, Landau, and Dosher 2001). This suggests that language
makes use of mechanisms that are related to – but not identical to – those
used in the representation of space and time.
17.3.1.6 Representations of words
Words themselves may share representation resources with other
domains. For example, according to the so-called embodiment hypothesis,
the basic elements that underlie lexical representations might be reused
sensory-motor representations (Meteyard et al. 2010; Zwaan 2003).
Consistent with this view, several neuroimaging studies demonstrate over-
lap in the brain regions activated when processing certain words, and the
brain regions activated during matched perceptual or motor tasks. For
example, Kable, Lease-Spellmeyer, and Chatterjee (2002) demonstrated
that processing action verbs (e.g., kick) but not object nouns (e.g., leaf)
resulted in changes in activity in the human motion areas MT/MST, as
well as surrounding areas of the temporal lobe, which some take as
evidence that the semantics of action words incorporates the same neural
circuits that allow us to represent action and motion in the external world.
Although controversy remains (Bedny et al. 2008; Meteyard et al. 2010), it
seems plausible that the representations of at least some words impor-
tantly interacts with, and perhaps in some way builds upon, motor and
perceptual systems.
17.3.2 Language and its biological substrates
17.3.2.1 The neural substrates of language
If language builds on a variety of non-linguistic abilities, we would expect
the neural substrates of language to overlap considerably with other non-
linguistic tasks, and this appears to be the case (Blumstein 2009). Of course,
to some degree this is trivially true: It would be shocking if a domain-
general area like auditory cortex did not subserve aspects of spoken
334 G . F . M A R C U S , C . D . R A B A G L I A , A N D H . R A B A G L I A T I
language comprehension. More interestingly, however, higher-level lin-
guistic processes such as syntactic and semantic comprehension also seem
to depend on brain regions that are not specifically tied to language. For
instance, recent work indicates that Broca’s area, which was long thought
to be the seat of syntactic processing, may in fact contribute to our ability
to select amongst competing alternative representations (such as compet-
ing syntactic structures or word meanings (Novick, Trueswell, and
Thompson-Schill 2005; Thompson-Schill 2003). Other work suggests that
it contributes similarly to memory retrieval (Badre and Wagner 2007).
For semantics, the case for shared cognitive resources is possibly even
stronger. In a number of papers, Pylkkänen and colleagues have provided
evidence that compositional and extra-compositional semantic processes
occur in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (Bemis and Pylkkänen 2011;
Pylkkänen and McElree 2007), which is not part of the traditional “lan-
guage” network of brain areas. Instead, this region is associated with high-
level cognitive tasks such as decision making, reward-based learning and,
in particular, social cognition (Amodio and Frith 2006). The diverse nature
of these tasks makes it difficult to suggest a single common function for
this region; one possibility is that each is a separately modified descendant
of some single common ancestor function.
17.3.2.2 Comorbidity between language and cognition
in developmental disorders
Although there has been a handful of reported cases of individuals with
impaired language but intact cognition (van der Lely, Rosen, and
McClelland 1998) and cases of individuals with (nearly) normal language
but significantly impaired cognition (Bellugi et al. 1990; Bellugi et al. 2000;
Johnson and Carey 1998), overall, proposed dissociated cases are excep-
tions rather than the rule. Developmental disorders with selective effects
on language or general cognitive functioning are rare in the population as
a whole relative to disorders that impair both domains: while the rate of
Williams syndrome (impaired cognition but “preserved” language) is
roughly one per 20,000 births (Morris and Mervis 2000), Down syndrome
(both impaired language and cognition), for example, is present in one out
of 800 births (Nadel 1999).
Further, even within the classically cited exemplars of dissociated dis-
orders, modern work suggests that, often, true selectivity of impairment
may not hold up under a finer lens of scrutiny. While it traditionally has
been claimed that individuals with Williams Syndrome (WS) have pre-
served language abilities despite significantly impaired general cognitive
skills, a recent meta-analysis suggests that the verbal abilities of people
with Williams Syndrome are relatively well predicted by their overall
cognitive level of functioning (Brock 2007). On the other end of the spec-
trum, Specific Language Impairment (SLI), despite its inherently selective
behavioral definition of language difficulty combined with normal-range
Modularity and descent-with-modiﬁcation 335
non-verbal IQ, in fact often shows covariation with more subtle general
impairments such as memory and motor control (Hill 2001), or aspects of
basic auditory processing (Hill, Hogben, and Bishop, 2005). Contra to the
known genetic anomaly associated with WS, SLI – while highly heritable –
is still mainly a catch-all label for a purely behavioral profile; SLI is thus a
notably heterogeneous disorder, and as such the specific causes are also
likely to be various. Although more domain-general deficits may not be
able to account for all the profiles of SLI (van der Lely 2005), theories
attribute many of the profiles of linguistic difficulty found in SLI to general
resources such as procedural memory and temporal processing (Tallal
2003; Ullman and Pierpont 2005).
As selective impairments for language attributable to specific genetic
loci go, the speech and language disorder found in the British KE family
(Gopnik and Crago 1991; Vargha-Khadem et al. 1998) arguably comes
closest to a selective impairment in language, since recent evidence
directly ties that disorder to a particular gene, FOXP2 (Fisher et al. 1998;
Lai et al. 2001) but the particular disorder in that family also affects non-
linguistic aspects of orofacial motor control (for a review, see Marcus and
Fisher 2003).
It is worth noting that the comorbidity suggested by these developmen-
tal disorders can be seen as extending to variation in the normally devel-
oped population as well; while variance in performance of language
tasks (such as reading comprehension or complex syntax and lexical
item production) is usually most closely related to other language tasks,
there is considerable covariation between language and performance in
other cognitive domains (for a review of early work in this domain, see
J. Carroll 1993; see also Rabaglia and Salthouse 2011). The pattern that
emerges from these patterns of comorbidity – relatively subtle and specific
areas of potential dissociation couched within largely co-varying deficits
between aspects of language and cognition – would pose significant chal-
lenges to a strict modularity viewpoint, but is entirely consistent with
descent-with-modification.
17.3.3 Summary
None of this is to say that language is just a product of preexisting
mechanisms, or that language simply is cognition. Just as wings build
upon a common plan for vertebrate limbs by adding feathers and adjust-
ing bone and muscle densities, the human linguistic system presumably
is more than just a preexisting ancestral neurocognitive system. To what-
ever cognitive machinery may have already been in place, evolution may
have added specialization of the vocal tract (Lieberman 1984), an ability
to represent hierarchical or recursive structure (Hauser, Chomsky, and
Fitch 2002; Marcus 2001, 2004b), a capacity to freely acquire new
words (Jackendoff 2002), and/or an interface between systems for
336 G . F . M A R C U S , C . D . R A B A G L I A , A N D H . R A B A G L I A T I
communication and theory of mind (Bloom 2000); understanding such
evolutionarily recent modifications is crucial to any complete account of
the human capacity for language. At the same time, as important as such
new capacities are, the considerations above suggest that language does
indeed borrow – sometimes with important modification, sometimes
without – cognitive machinery inherited from our non-speaking primate
ancestors.
17.4 Modules as the product of descent-with-modiﬁcation:
Implications
Construing contemporary neurocognitive modules as descendants of
processes of modification, rather than as sui generis devices shaped purely
by adaptive advantage (without serious regard for developmental con-
straints), has a number of implications for the disciplines of cognitive
science, including how we assess debates about modularity, and how we
investigate putatively modular domains.
17.4.1 Implications for how we identify modular structure
The notion of descent-with-modification, once recognized, has significant
implications for how we assess debates about modularity. Although the
question of whether any particular computation is performed in modular
fashion must inevitably remain an empirical one, ideas such as duplication
and divergence undermine many typical arguments against modularity
with particular domains.
Consider, for example, developmental disorders that affect multiple
cognitive domains. To some opponents of modularity, mental disorders
that affect multiple domains are prima facie evidence that the mind is
without modules. If some disorder affects both language and general
intelligence, many assume that language is simply the product of general
intelligence, not an independent entity. But a finding that a given disorder
affects two behaviors or neural structures doesn’t mean that the two are
identical – it could just mean that they are built in a similar way. If 95% of
the genes involved in the circuitry for building language also participate in
the constructing of other mental capacities, the vast majority of geneti-
cally originating disorders should be expected to have broad effects.
Impairments to memory, for example, ought to impair language, as well
as other domains like planning and decision-making. Disruptions to the
genes that code for metabolic enzymes might be expected to affect
(in some cases) the entire brain, and disruptions to genes that code for
receptor proteins might have effects wherever those receptors are found.
It would be a rare disorder indeed that would affect only a single aspect of
cognition.
Modularity and descent-with-modiﬁcation 337
To take a concrete example, dyslexics often have a deficit not just in
phonology but also in sensory-motor skills, and one might be tempted to
doubt that dyslexia is a modular deficit. But the existence (and apparent
frequency) of processes such as duplication and divergence make it possi-
ble that (say) two physically distinct systems could be genetically related.7
A finding that many dyslexics have sensory-motor difficulties doesn’t
mean that a single neural anomaly underlies both disorders; instead a
single gene might impair some shared developmental process. Similarly,
the fact that some people with language impairments are also cognitively
impaired doesn’t necessarily mean that language in such people is
impaired because cognition is impaired; instead, both language and other
aspects of cognition (say executive function) could be impaired by a muta-
tion in genes that participate in the development of both. When a given
disorder affects two aspects of cognition, we can’t necessarily infer that
the two aspects of cognition rely on a common neural or cognitive
substrate.
The descent-with-modification perspective suggests caution for infer-
ring the absence of modularity from many studies of “normal” cognition.
In particular, it is often assumed that if two systems have shared proper-
ties, e.g., common learning curves, they necessarily depend on physically
overlapping substrates. For example, Markson and Bloom (1997) argue
against domain-specificity for word learning on the grounds that one of
word-learning’s hallmark traits – rapidity of acquisition – applies in other
cognitive domains (e.g., associating an object with information about
where it came from). A descent-with-modification view highlights the
fact that such results are equally consistent with the possibility that
there is a specialized architecture for word-learning that has unique physi-
cal substrates that share a common genetic heritage with other neuro-
cognitive systems. (E.g., there could be different memory circuits involved
in remembering words and “ordinary facts,” but those distinct circuits
might be built by common substrate.)8
Once the logic of descent-with-
modification is recognized, it becomes clear that parceling cognitive pro-
cesses into underlying components is significantly more difficult than
widely anticipated.
Because of the richness of gene regulation (again, see Marcus 2004b, for
a non-technical introduction), a single gene may be used multiple times in
the service of radically different functions, in each copy of a serially
repeated structure (like a finger or a toe), or even in far more diverse
circumstances, such as the protein product of the gene Microphthalmia-
associated transcription factor (MITF), which participates in eye formation,
blood cell formation, and pigmentation (Gilbert 2000). If a single brain
region is heavily involved in two processes, it is commonly assumed that
the two domains involve some of the same computations.9
In contrast, a
single gene that is involved in two different processes does not necessarily
show that the same cognitive functions are produced by the same bit of
338 G . F . M A R C U S , C . D . R A B A G L I A , A N D H . R A B A G L I A T I
neural structure or rely on the same computational mechanisms.
Apparently general processes could result from common sets of genes
that contribute to multiple physically distinct substrates.
17.4.2 Implications for the study of linguistics
If, as argued here, modules that seem superficially different may share
genes and ancestry, descent-with-modification also supplies a novel argu-
ment for interdisciplinary collaboration. If two current cognitive mecha-
nisms are, in essence, diverged copies of some single ancestral system, it
follows that we may glean insight into both systems by careful compar-
isons of the two. For example, one might expect that the recently evolved
capacity for language would draw heavily on general cognitive (or motor)
resources that have been inherited from our ancestors, and hence it stands
to reason that we ought to be able to gain insight into language by studying
those cognitive resources.
Descent-with-modification suggests that we should expect the hall-
marks of ancestry even in the very machinery that makes abstract linguis-
tic representation possible. Although the abstract computational system
that allows humans to represent and process language is unique to
humans, the circuitry that gives rise to that abstract computational system
need not itself be entirely unique. It is possible – maybe even likely – that
there is evolutionary precedent for some of the components underlying
the abstract computational system.10
In light of Jacob’s (1977) view of
evolution as a tinkerer, it is even possible that there are no uniquely
human components, just uniquely configured components.
If the abstract computational mechanism for language incorporates not
just memory and recursion, but also mechanisms for (say) categorization
or automating repeating actions, one is led to a whole family of similar
empirical questions: to what extent are the mechanisms that support
linguistic representation (a) the very same mechanisms used in other
cognitive computations (b) divergent copies of ancestral mechanisms
that also gave rise to current cognitive mechanisms, or (c) sui generis
mechanisms with no informative ancestral history. Neuroimaging results
that show significant contributions of subcortical regions (e.g., Crosson
1992; Lieberman 2002) and frontal areas not traditionally associated with
language (e.g., Poeppel and Hickok 2004) seem to point towards the former
two possibilities, and against the latter.
17.5 Afterword
Demonstrating that descent-with-modification modularity is not vulner-
able to some of the biologically oriented criticisms that could be leveled
against sui generis modularity is not the same as showing that the mind (or
Modularity and descent-with-modiﬁcation 339
brain) consists of modules that descended with modification. Even if the
mind (and brain) descended with modification from earlier neural and
cognitive architecture, it is still an empirical question whether there is
any modular structure at all. Descent-with-modification suggests that
there should be shared properties between modules, but if there are no
modules at all, there would still be shared properties between underlying
neural substrates; at best the current arguments put descent-with-
modification modularity on a par with a domain-general view; they don’t
independently affirm it. Affirming modularity (of any sort) in any domain
remains an empirical challenge.
Moreover, descent-with-modification is no panacea. It may answer some
puzzles, but there are many more it cannot answer. To the extent that
evolution has through descent-with-modification created the entire array
of living organisms on the planet earth, from bacteria to worms, spiders,
and human beings, descent-with-modification has not constrained biology
to any single narrow niche. It is not obvious that our system for commu-
nication (say) is the only way that a linguistic system could have evolved,
nor that evolution requires all intelligent life forms to reason about things
in the same way. To the extent that decent-with-modification provides
constraint, it is not by strictly limiting outcome, but by limiting process:
the question is always where one could go from here (or get here in the first
place), not about where one could get starting from scratch. As such, the
more we know about ancestral systems the more we will able to put the
notion of descent-with-modification to useful work.
340 G . F . M A R C U S , C . D . R A B A G L I A , A N D H . R A B A G L I A T I
18
The role of Broca’s area
in language function
Gregory Hickok
18.1 Where is Broca’s area?
Broca’s area has been a centerpiece of functional anatomic models of
language since it was first implicated in speech production by Pierre Paul
Broca in the 1860s. Although there is little doubt that the region plays
some role in speech production as Broca proposed, it remains unclear
exactly what that role is. Further, Broca’s region has also been impli-
cated in a dizzying array of additional language and related functions,
ranging from various forms of syntactic comprehension to speech per-
ception, cognitive control, action understanding, and music perception.
Here we review the primary hypotheses regarding Broca’s area function,
organized in terms of the historical timeline of the emergence of these
ideas.
Broca’s area is typically defined as the posterior portion of the left
inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) including the pars triangularis and pars oper-
cularis (Figure 18.1) (Brodmann 1909; Aboitiz and Garcia 1997; Anwander
et al. 2007). The pars triangularis and opercularis roughly correspond to
Brodmann areas 45 and 44, respectively, but the boundaries of BA44 and
BA45 can vary considerably (Keller et al. 2009; Amunts et al. 1999). A third
anatomical region, referred to as the frontal operculum, is sometimes
noted in discussions of the function of Broca’s area (Friederici et al.
2000a). The frontal operculum has been described as the inferior-medial
portion of the IFG, extending medially to the insular cortex and posteriorly
to the pre-central sulcus (Anwander et al. 2007).
As noted above, Broca’s area is not an anatomically homogeneous region
and therefore it is important not to assume that the region as a whole will
be functionally homogeneous. Some of the confusion over the role of
Broca’s area in various functions probably stems from the use of the
term “Broca’s area” to refer broadly to this heterogeneous region.
Progress in understanding the functional organization of Broca’s area
will be facilitated if investigators couch their hypotheses and findings in a
higher-resolution anatomical framework. In the present discussion I will
try to follow this suggestion where possible.
18.2 Broca’s area and speech articulation
Broca’s area has long been implicated in articulatory-related speech pro-
duction and for good reason. Damage to, or disruption of Broca’s area has
been associated with articulatory/phonetic deficits in speech production.
For example, acute damage to Broca’s area can cause severe speech articu-
lation deficits and direct cortical stimulation can cause speech arrest.
However, the role that region plays in speech production is less clear.
One fact that needs to be considered in this context is that destruction of
Broca’s area does not lead to chronic, severe speech production deficits
(Mohr et al. 1978). Severe chronic production deficits, such as those char-
acteristic of Broca’s aphasia, require much larger lesions, typically includ-
ing much of the posterior-lateral frontal lobe and anterior insula (Damasio
1991; Dronkers and Baldo 2009; Hillis 2007). When a lesion is restricted
to Broca’s area, recovery of motor speech function is near, if not fully
complete. For example, (Alexander et al. 1990) report that patients with
focal lesions that are largely restricted to Broca’s area have excellent
Figure 18.1 Broca’s area is traditionally deﬁned as the posterior portion of the inferior frontal
gyrus of the left hemisphere, including the pars triangularis (light grey) and pars opercularis
(dark grey).
342 G R E G O R Y H I C K O K
recovery of their speech production ability and are left with few language
deficits . These findings suggest that Broca’s area, while clearly involved in
speech production, is not critical for relatively normal speech articulation
ability. This observation will have to be taken into account in any model of
the role of Broca’s area in speech production.
18.3 Broca’s area and syntactic computation
The first hints that Broca’s area might play a role in syntactic processes
came from observations of the speech output of patients with Broca’s
aphasia. Agrammatism, the tendency to omit grammatical information
in speech output, was described as early as 1819 by Deleuze (see Goodglass
1993: 103–104) and received detailed treatment by Arnold Pick in a 1913
volume dedicated to the topic (Pick 1913; Whitaker 1998). But the first half
of the twentieth century was characterized by a notable lack of interest in
localization of cortical function and so the link between Broca’s area and
syntactic processes would have to wait until the 1960s and 1970s when
localization of function became a topic of intense interest again, largely
due to the influence of Norman Geschwind (Geschwind 1965). By then,
cognitive (as opposed to behaviorist) approaches dominated psychology,
linguistics was making significant headway in understanding the nature of
language structure, and technological advances allowed scientists to map
the lesion correlates of neurological disorders in vivo. These factors led to
an explosion of new research on aphasia and on syntactic processing in
particular.
A pivotal study in research on the relation between Broca’s area and
syntactic processes, and one that continues to shape the direction of
current research, is the 1976 report by Caramazza and Zurif. Caramazza
and Zurif found that Broca’s aphasics exhibit not only agrammatic produc-
tion, but also had a profound deficit in using syntactic knowledge in
sentence comprehension. The critical bit of evidence was that Broca’s
aphasics were able to use semantic information (lexical and real-world
knowledge) to derive the meaning of an utterance: they could correctly
understand a so-called semantically non-reversible sentence like, The apple
that the boy is eating is red. But they failed when interpretation required the
use of syntactic information, i.e. when the sentence was semantically
reversible like, The boy that the girl is chasing is tall. This finding suggested
that Broca’s aphasics had a deficit in syntactic computation generally
which had reflections both in their speech output and sentence compre-
hension. Broca’s area, via its association with Broca’s aphasia (a dubious
association, see above) then became the major anatomical focus for the
localization of syntax, including its role in comprehension of sentences.
This obsession with Broca’s area and syntax (comprehension in particular)
persists today.
The role of Broca’s area in language function 343
It is interesting to note that Caramazza and Zurif tested not only Broca’s
aphasics, but also conduction aphasics. Conduction aphasics have posterior
lesions, centered on the temporal-parietal junction (Baldo et al. 2008;
Buchsbaum et al. 2011), and don’t have agrammatic speech output.
However, Caramazza and Zurif report that their conduction aphasics per-
formed exactly like the Broca’s aphasics: both were approximately 90%
accurate in comprehending semantically non-reversible sentences, but
performed at chance on semantically reversible sentences.
Why then did all subsequent work focus on Broca’s aphasics and Broca’s
area? Why was conduction aphasia and more posterior lesion sites not
considered as a possible test case/source for the neural substrate for
syntax?
The answer derives from the common interpretation of conduction
aphasia at the time, which was that of a disconnection syndrome
(Geschwind 1965). According to this view, conduction aphasia was caused
not by damage to any computational system, but by a disconnection of
computational systems, namely Wernicke’s and Broca’s area. Caramazza
and Zurif write,
Conduction aphasics also were incapable of using syntactic algorithmic
processes … The question arises, therefore, as to whether syntactic oper-
ations also rely on cortical regions posterior to Broca’s area or whether the
conduction deficit should be considered within a disconnection frame-
work, that is, as the severing of a connection to Broca’s area . . . Given the
impressive arguments offered by Geschwind, we are presently satisfied in
treating it as a problem of disconnection, but a disconnection from an area
that subserves syntactic processes. (Caramazza and Zurif 1976: 581)
But the interpretation of conduction aphasia has evolved since the 1970s.
It is no longer considered a disconnection syndrome but rather a deficit
caused by cortical dysfunction (Anderson et al. 1999; Baldo et al. 2008;
Fridriksson et al. 2010; Hickok et al. 2000). Thus, the original motivating
factor for focusing on Broca’s area no longer holds and a re-examination of
the source of the deficit in light of a broader perspective, i.e. one that
includes conduction aphasia and posterior cortices, is needed. Once such
perspective is outlined below.
Caramazza and Zurif’s report caused much excitement over the possi-
bility that the neural correlate of syntax had been identified. However,
subsequent work by another group squelched the enthusiasm. Linebarger,
Schwartz, and Saffran (1983) tested a group of agrammatic Broca’s apha-
sics on their ability to make grammaticality judgments. If Broca’s aphasics
indeed had lost their syntactic competence, then the ability to judge the
syntactic acceptability of utterances should suffer appreciably. This is not
what Linebarger et al. found. Instead, they found that agrammatic Broca’s
aphasics were able to judge grammaticality remarkably well. The idea that
Broca’s aphasia reflected a global deficit in syntax was replaced by notions
344 G R E G O R Y H I C K O K
of failures to link syntax and semantics (Linebarger et al. 1983) or various
online processing deficits (Hagoort 1993; Swinney et al. 1989).
But the idea of a link between Broca’s aphasia/area and syntax was not
completely abandoned. In a series of publications, Grodzinsky articulated
a theory in which only a circumscribed component of the syntactic system
was compromised in Broca’s aphasia, namely that component that links
displaced elements with their place of interpretation (Grodzinsky 1986,
1989, 1990). For example, in the “object gap” sentence, The boy that the girl
chased ___ is tall, the noun phrase, the boy, is interpreted as the object of the
verb chased, whereas in the “subject gap” sentence, The boy that ___ chased
the girl is tall, the noun phrase, the boy is interpreted as the subject of the
verb. In order to interpret these sentences, the syntactic system must
correctly link the initial noun phrase with the role it plays relative to the
verb. Grodzinksy argued that Broca’s aphasics specifically lack the compo-
nent of syntax that computes this relation. While this syntactic link is
thought to be required in both subject and object gap sentences, it has
been found that Broca’s aphasics only have trouble with the object gap
variant. Grodzinsky explains this observation by assuming that Broca’s
aphasics, in the absence of syntactic linkage information, adopt a “default”
comprehension strategy by which they interpret the first noun phrase as
the subject. This strategy works fine for subject gaps which follow canoni-
cal subject–verb–object word order (in English), but fails for object gaps
which follow a non-canonical word order, thus explaining the observed
pattern of performance. By (dubious) association between Broca’s aphasia
and Broca’s area, he has also claimed that Broca’s area is the seat of this
computation (Grodzinsky 2000; Grodzinsky and Santi 2008).
Functional imaging research seems to provide prima facie support for
Grodzinsky’s claim. For example, several functional imaging studies have
found that in healthy subjects, portions of Broca’s area are more active
during the comprehension of object gap sentences compared to subject
gap sentences (Cooke et al. 2002; Fiebach et al. 2005; Rogalsky et al. 2008;
Santi and Grodzinsky 2007a, b). But on further reflection, it is not clear that
Grodzinsky’s gap-based theory would necessarily predict this result as
both subject and object gap sentences involve a linking computation.
This has led some investigators to propose that it is working memory
load that may drive the involvement of Broca’s area in the comprehension
of syntactically complex sentences such as object gap constructions
(Just et al. 1996; Kaan and Swaab 2002; Rogalsky et al. 2008).
A recent functional imaging study (Rogalsky et al. 2008) used an articu-
latory suppression paradigm to assess the role of one form of working
memory, phonological short-term memory, in the pattern of activity in
Broca’s area during sentence comprehension. Articulatory suppression
(repeatedly articulating a word or sequence of syllables) interferes with
phonological short-term memory by preventing the use of articulatory
rehearsal (Baddeley et al. 1975). In a functional imaging context, one can
The role of Broca’s area in language function 345
use articulatory suppression to assess the extent to which sentence pro-
cessing effects in Broca’s area reflect articulatory rehearsal: if the object
gap sentences yield greater activation in Broca’s area than the subject gap
sentences even during articulatory suppression, then the residual activa-
tion can be attributed to mechanisms other than articulatory rehearsal. In
other words, this approach allows one to answer the question, how much
of the object gap > subject gap activation pattern that is typically found
in Broca’s area (when articulatory suppression is not employed) can be
accounted for in terms of simple articulatory processes underlying phono-
logical working memory? Subject versus object gap sentences were pre-
sented auditorily both with and without articulatory suppression. Without
suppression, object gap sentences produced more activation in several
Broca’s area regions including the pars opercularis and pars triangularis.
However, during articulatory suppression only the pars triangularis
showed the object > subject effect. A similar result was reported for
visually presented sentences by Caplan et al. (2000). This finding suggests
that the pars opercularis portion of Broca’s area contributes to sentence
comprehension only via its role in the articulatory rehearsal component of
phonological working memory. It is interesting and relevant that the pars
opercularis appears to be functionally linked to the temporal-parietal
junction (a region known as Spt in particular) (Buchsbaum et al. 2001;
Buchsbaum et al. 2005; Rogalsky and Hickok 2011) that has been impli-
cated in phonological short-term memory (Buchsbaum and D’Esposito
2008; Hickok et al. 2003; Hickok et al. 2009b) as well as linked to conduction
aphasics (Buchsbaum et al. 2011), who have been found to have phono-
logical short-term memory deficits (Baldo and Dronkers 2006). This
constellation of observations ties together the sentence comprehension
performance of Broca’s and conduction aphasics as reported by Caramazza
and Zurif, among others, with a phonological short-term memory deficit
involving a fronto-temporal-parietal circuit. Damage to this circuit appears
to account for at least some of the functional activation in healthy subjects
and sentence comprehension patterns in aphasics.
But perhaps this isn’t the whole story. The pars triangularis, for exam-
ple, persists in showing a subject–object asymmetry even during articula-
tory suppression (Caplan et al. 2000; Rogalsky et al. 2008). Might this be the
region supporting a specific syntactic function? It’s possible, but there is
evidence against this view. One piece of the evidence is that the subject–
object asymmetry found in the pars triangularis (even during articulatory
suppression) disappears when subjects perform a concurrent finger-
tapping task, which was used as a non-speech control for the effects of
performing a secondary motor task during sentence comprehension
(Rogalsky et al. 2008). Other evidence suggests that more anterior sectors
of Broca’s area support sentence comprehension via some more general
cognitive function (Novick et al. 2005; Rogalsky and Hickok 2011). We will
take up this possibility in the next section.
346 G R E G O R Y H I C K O K
It is notable that some authors have recently proposed that Broca’s area
(posterior sectors in particular) is involved in hierarchical processing gen-
erally and therefore supports sentence processes via this more general
computational function (Fadiga et al. 2009; Friederici 2009; Friederici et al.
2006a). This is a puzzling claim in light of the lesion evidence noted above
that patients with Broca’s aphasia – who therefore have lesions that likely
include all of Broca’s area and surrounding tissue – can judge the gramma-
ticality of sentences quite well (Linebarger et al. 1983). In other words, the
same reasons that led the field to reject the idea that Broca’s aphasics had a
global deficit in syntactic processing should apply to these newer claims
regarding a supposed role for Broca’s area in an even more general hier-
archical processing mechanism.
In sum, although there has been much discussion of the role of Broca’s
area in syntactic computation, especially during comprehension, there is
little evidence supporting the claim for any linguistic-specific computa-
tion performed in Broca’s region (Rogalsky and Hickok 2011).
18.4 Broca’s area and cognitive control
It has been suggested that Broca’s area supports some aspects of sentence
processing via a more general role in “cognitive control,” which includes
mechanisms involved in resolving conflicts between competing represen-
tations or conflicting information (Novick et al. 2005). The necessity for
conflict resolution arises in a range of language processing situations
where ambiguity exists including phonological, lexical, and sentential
contexts. Novick et al. propose that Broca’s area and surrounding tissue
support the detection of conflicting analyses and the implementation of
re-analyses when needed. Support for this hypothesis comes from the
observation that classic cognitive control tasks, such as the Stroop task,
have been found to activate regions in the vicinity of Broca’s area (see
Novick et al. for a review), as well as from one study that reported more
activity in Broca’s region for ambiguous sentences that required reanalysis
(Mason et al. 2003; Stowe et al. 1998) and another (Fiebach et al. 2004) that
found more activation in the pars opercularis region for sentences that
were disambiguated later in the sentence compared to earlier in the
sentence (late disambiguation is argued to induce more reanalysis load).
Although Novick et al. primarily discuss garden-path sentences, one might
extend this framework to cases of syntactic movement as these sentences
also induce local ambiguities in determining where the displaced item
should be interpreted. Additional studies have reported that sentences
containing lexically ambiguous words yielded more activation in the
pars triangularis than comparable sentences that had fewer word-level
ambiguities (Rodd et al. 2005) and that this region was more active for
sentences containing real world knowledge violations (Bananas are red and
The role of Broca’s area in language function 347
delicious) compared to those that did not (Hagoort et al. 2004). Such findings
might also be construed as evidence for a cognitive control interpretation
of the function of Broca’s area because both ambiguities and violations of
real-world expectations can lead to conflicts that must be resolved.
An examination of the distribution of activation foci for classic cognitive
control tasks shows that they cluster in two distinct regions, one slightly
dorsal to the pars opercularis (Derrfuss et al. 2004) and the other in more
anterior portions of Broca’s area (Rogalsky and Hickok 2011). The more
anterior cluster is in the vicinity of the pars triangularis region that
showed a subject–object asymmetry even under conditions of articulatory
suppression.
The cognitive control proposal is relatively new and has not been inves-
tigated thoroughly across multiple domains and with multiple methods
(hemodynamic imaging, lesion). We will therefore have to wait for addi-
tional investigation to determine whether it fares any better than the
syntax-oriented proposals.
18.5 Broca’s area, mirror neurons, and speech perception
The discovery of mirror neurons in the macaque frontal cortex
(di Pellegrino et al. 1992; Gallese et al. 1996; Rizzolatti and Arbib 1998)
has sparked renewed interest in the role of the motor system in the
perception of speech sounds (D’Ausilio et al. 2009; Meister et al. 2007;
Wilson et al. 2004), an idea that is clearly related to the motor theory of
speech perception (Liberman et al. 1967; Liberman and Mattingly 1985).
The question of the role of the motor system in speech perception has
the benefit of decades of research driven by Liberman and colleagues’
motor theory of speech perception, which has been evaluated from a
range of perspectives including neuropsychology, development, and ani-
mal research. The outcome of all this work was that a strong version of the
motor theory was rejected as a viable theory by a large majority of speech
perception researchers. Some of the most convincing evidence that led to
the rejection of the strong view of the motor theory came from studies
showing that speech perception could be achieved without motor speech
ability. Neither damage to the motor cortex related to speech as in Broca’s
aphasia (Damasio 1992; Goodglass 1993) nor cases of congenital failure to
develop speech production prevent normal receptive speech ability
(Lenneberg 1962). Developmentally it was shown that infants could dis-
criminate speech sounds that they could not yet produce (Eimas et al.
1971). And research on animals indicated that sophisticated speech per-
ception ability could be achieved even in a model system (e.g., chinchilla)
that does not have the capacity to produce any speech (Kuhl and Miller
1975). More recent evidence supports the earlier findings. For example, it
has been shown that acute and complete deactivation of left hemisphere
348 G R E G O R Y H I C K O K
motor regions during the administration of Wada procedures does not
preclude impressive speech discrimination performance requiring the
resolution of fine phonetic distinctions (Boatman et al. 1998; Hickok et al.
2008). The fact that motor speech is not necessary for speech perception
places a significant constraint on motor-based theories of receptive speech
processing and falsifies any claim that the motor system is required for
speech perception generally.
At the same time, any theory of speech perception must take account of
recent observations that motor systems can affect speech perception to
some degree. For example, Galantucci et al. review a range of behavioral
studies indicating motor influence on speech perception (Galantucci et al.
2006), and studies involving the application of transcranial magnetic stimu-
lation (TMS) to motor areas has shown mild changes in performance in the
perception of speech presented in noise (D’Ausilio et al. 2009; Meister et al.
2007) indicating some role for the motor system at least under some
conditions (see Hickok et al. 2009a; Wilson 2009 for discussion). Findings
such as these place constraints on auditory-based theories of speech per-
ception and indicate that there must be a mechanism for the interaction of
sensory and motor systems during perception of speech.
An architecture that is fundamentally auditory but which allows for
motor modulation is most consistent with the facts (Hickok et al. 2011).
Specifically, motor effects on perception tend to be small (~10% modula-
tion), have been demonstrated only in partially ambiguous acoustic stimuli
(speech in noise), and at least a portion of this effect may be attributable to
post-perceptual factors rather than perceptual discrimination (Sato et al.
2011). These facts coupled with the observation that speech perception
is at or near ceiling levels even with the motor system severely compro-
mised, is evidence for an asymmetry in computational importance between
the auditory (driving) and motor (modulatory) speech systems.
If the motor system has only a small modulatory effect, why is it
involved in perception at all? The answer, we suggest, is that the percep-
tual modulation developed to support motor function (Hickok et al. 2011).
Specifically, motor commands generate a corollary discharge which gen-
erates an internal forward model predicting the sensory consequences of
motor commands. The sensory prediction is realized as an auditory gain
modulation (prediction is much like attention). Given the existence of
such a mechanism in the motor control system, perhaps it can be co-
opted (exapted, in the evolutionary sense) for perception of others’ speech
under some circumstances.
The role of Broca’s area in language function 349
19
Lexical retrieval and its
breakdown in aphasia
and developmental
language impairment
Naama Friedmann,
Michal Biran, and Dror Dotan
19.1 Introduction
One of the central processes in language is lexical retrieval, the pro-
cess of getting from a concept to a spoken word. This process became
one of the central targets for researchers of biolinguistics, and specifi-
cally, for brain research. As we will survey below, lexical retrieval is a
multi-staged process, with distinct components. The main challenge of
biolinguists in this area is the identification of these components, of
their localization in specific brain areas, and the description of the
flow of information between them over the course of time. This is
done mainly via the exploration of various types of anomia, lexical
retrieval impairments after brain damage, and using various brain
imaging techniques.
Psycholinguists and biolinguists seek to explain the process that
allows speakers to retrieve words rapidly and accurately. In fluent
speech, words are retrieved at a rate of 1–3 words per second, from
lexicons that include tens of thousands of words, and still, normal speak-
ers make as few as one error in a thousand words or even less
(Butterworth, 1989, 1992; Levelt, 1989). Models of lexical retrieval, devel-
oped by a group of neuropsychologists of language and cognitive psy-
cholinguists (e.g., John Morton, John Marshall, Merrill Garrett, David
Howard, Brian Butterworth, Gary Dell, Willem Levelt, Ardi Roelofs,
Max Coltheart, and Lyndsey Nickels), describe the intact word produc-
tion process and the possible loci of deficits in the model that cause word
retrieval difficulties (see Figure 19.1).
19.2 Stages of lexical retrieval
These models suggest that the first stage of the lexical retrieval process is
the formation of a conceptual representation in the conceptual system, a
representation that is still not formulated in words. This representation
includes what the person knows about a concept, probably including its
visual image, its semantic properties, its function etc. Such a concept can
be created from an idea someone has, or after identifying a visual image
such as a picture of an object or the object itself. Many cognitive psychol-
ogists and linguists (Collins and Quillian 1969; Rips and Medin 2005; Rosch
1975, 1978; Rosch et al. 1976; Rosch and Mervis 1975; Smith and Medin
1981, to name just a few), as well as philosophers (such as Gottlob Frege,
Bertrand Russell, Ludwig Wittgenstein, and many others), explored the
questions of the nature and representation of concepts, and this question
is still under research and debate.
This non-lexical concept then activates a lexical-semantic representa-
tion in the semantic lexicon. The semantic lexicon is organized semantically
and contains words and information about the meaning of words, for
example, about the semantic category, function, color, and size of the
items the words refer to. According to some conceptualizations, it is
actually a “hub” between the conceptual system and the lexical systems,
without a content of its own. This lexicon is where semantic priming, the
effect of the presentation of a word on the later presentation of a seman-
tically related word, takes place. Semantic priming has a complex pattern –
for example, whereas hearing or reading a word facilitates the access to a
semantically related word that appears shortly afterwards, studies of word
production found that in naming tasks it takes longer to produce a word if
a semantically related word was produced shortly beforehand (Howard
Conceptual
system
Semantic
lexicon
Phonological
output lexicon
Phonological
output buffer
output – word production
Syntactic
lexicon
Figure 19.1 Stages in lexical retrieval.
Aphasia and language impairment 351
et al. 2006; Wheeldon and Monsell 1994). The semantic lexicon is organized
also by imageability, with high-imageability (concrete) words being easier
to access than low-imageability (abstract) words (Howard and Gatehouse
2006; Nickels 1995; Nickels and Howard 1994).
The selected semantic representation activates the lexical-
phonological representation in the phonological output lexicon: the repre-
sentation of the spoken form of the word, which includes the metrical
information of the word (number of syllables and stress pattern) and its
segmental information (its phonemes – consonants and vowels, and
their relative positions, Butterworth 1992; Levelt 1992). A possible rea-
son for the phonological output lexicon to keep the words broken into
metric and segmental information, rather than as already-assembled
words, is that words may have different phonological forms in different
contexts. For example, the words “want” and “to” together do not sound
like the juxtaposition of the two separate words, but are rather pro-
nounced “wanna”; the same goes for “come” and “on,” that are pro-
nounced together as “commun,” for “gotta” and many more. The fact
that the phonological form of the word is constructed each time we use
it makes it easier for the speech production system to be productive
and to generate the word in many different ways, depending on the
context (Levelt 1992). The exact extent of metric and segmental infor-
mation in the phonological output lexicon is still debated – for example,
whether the metric information includes prosody (Butterworth 1992),
or whether there are different representations for vowels and con-
sonants (Caramazza et al. 2000).
The phonological output lexicon is organized by word frequency, and
hence frequent words are accessed more readily than less frequent ones.
As for the representation of morphologically complex words (at least those
with regular inflections), it seems that this lexicon only includes the stems
of the word, namely, it includes “kangaroo” but not “kangaroos,” “walk”
but not “walked.”
Lexical phonology is represented in two separate phonological lexi-
cons: an output lexicon, which is used during speech, and an input
lexicon, which is used when hearing words. The phonological output
lexicon is also separate from the orthographic lexicon (Coltheart
2004) – we may know how a word sounds, but not how it is spelled. (For
example, the reader probably said the word tomorrow quite often, but may
still wonder whether there are two m’s or two r’s in the written word;
other readers may know the legal word that sounds like /suh-pee-nuh/,
but not know how it is spelled.) Conversely, we may know the written
form of words that we often read, namely, they may appear in our ortho-
graphic lexicon, without knowing exactly how they are pronounced (this
could apply to foreign names in books, such as Yossarian, names of lexical
retrieval researchers, such as Levelt or McCullough, or city names in signs,
such as Valladolid, Llanrwst, or Wooloomooloo, and to irregular words in a
352 N A A M A F R I E D M A N N , M I C H A L B I R A N , A N D D R O R D O T A N
foreign language, such as the words suffice, whole, or yacht in English when
read by non-native speakers).
The activation is in turn transferred from the phonological output lex-
icon to the phonological output buffer, a post-lexical, sub-lexical stage that has
two functions: maintaining activation and composition. The information
that arrives from the phonological output lexicon needs to be held active
somewhere until the word is uttered in full. The phonological output buffer
is a phonological short-term store, which holds the phonological represen-
tation that arrives from the phonological lexicon until the word is pro-
duced (e.g., Butterworth 1989, 1992; Dell 1986, 1988; Garrett 1976, 1992;
Kempen and Huijbers 1983; Levelt 1989, 1992; Nickels 1997; Patterson and
Shewell 1987). It holds units of various sizes: phonemes, morphemes, and
number words (Dotan and Friedmann 2007, 2010).
In its other function, the output buffer is a composer. It composes the
word by inserting the phonemes into the metrical frame (e.g., Biran and
Friedmann 2005; Meyer 1992; Shattuck-Hufnagel 1992). It is also respon-
sible for composing larger phonological units: it composes morphologi-
cally complex words from their morphemes (Dotan and Friedmann
2007, 2010; Kohn and Melvold 2000). The buffer is responsible not only
for composition at the word level. It seems that the buffer (and/or the
phonetic stages immediately following it) is also responsible for the
phonological effects of the combination of words, such as the combina-
tion of “want to” into “wanna” that we have mentioned earlier, and
possibly also for the effects of co-articulation, namely, the obscuration
of the boundaries between units in speech production (Kent and Minifie
1977). It might even be, and this is still to be tested and confirmed, that
processes at the sentence level that linguists ascribe to the phonological
component, the PF, such as verb movement according to some analyses
(Chomsky 1995b, 2001), occur in this stage. The output buffer is a com-
ponent that is separate from the phonological input buffer (Monsell
1987; Franklin, Buerk, and Howard 2002; Nickels, Howard, and Best
1997; Gvion and Friedmann 2008, 2012a; Shallice, Rumiati, and Zadini
2000; Shallice and Warrington 1977). Given that the phonological out-
put buffer is a short-term memory component, it is also affected by the
length of the phonemic string it holds (namely, the number of phonemes
in a word, or the number of words in a multi-digit number) – longer
strings that include more units are harder to maintain and produce, and
strings that include more units than its capacity are impossible to main-
tain and produce in full.
Importantly, the phonological output buffer is involved not only in the
process of word retrieval, which we have discussed so far, but also in the
production of nonwords. When a person reads a word that is not stored in
her orthographic and phonological lexicons, be it a new word or a non-
word, she would not be able to use the lexical route. In this case, she will be
forced to fall back on a sublexical route of reading, which converts
Aphasia and language impairment 353
graphemes to their corresponding phonemes (see Figure 19.2 in the next
section). The phonological output buffer holds the products of this con-
version until production, and composes the phonemes into a string.
Similarly, when one repeats a nonword (or a new or unknown word), it is
the phonological output buffer that receives the phoneme string (from
the phonological input buffer), holds it, re-composes it and sends it to
production.
Eventually, the phonological output buffer sends the phonological
representation of the word to phonetic encoding, the stage that prepares
the phoneme string for articulation and sends it to the motor system.
The phonetic encoding stage handles phonemes, and it also uses a mental
syllabary, a store of pre-assembled syllables, ready for articulation. For this
reason, more frequently used phonemes and syllables are activated more
easily (Laganaro 2008; Levelt et al. 1999). Although the mental store of
syllables is located at a phonetic stage, the syllable frequency also affects
the phonological output buffer (Laganaro 2008).
19.2.1 The syntactic lexicon
Another component that the semantic lexicon activates, as shown in
Figure 19.1, is the syntactic lexicon, which stores syntactic information
about words. This lexical–syntactic information includes various aspects
of words that dictate the syntactic environment in which a word can be
inserted. One type of lexical–syntactic information is the information
about the argument structure of the verb – the number of arguments it
takes, their thematic roles (its thematic grid), and the syntactic types of
the verb’s complements (its subcategorization frame). For example, for
the verb “kiss,” the syntactic lexicon includes the information that it takes
two arguments, an agent and a theme, and that the complement of the
verb is a noun phrase (The girl kissed the boy). For the verb “think,” the
complement can be either a sentence (think that the autumn is a beautiful
season) or a prepositional phrase (think about the rain). Namely, the lexical–
syntactic information of the verb think includes the information that it has
two different options for complementation.
Information about nouns is also encoded in the syntactic lexicon. For
example, it includes information about the grammatical gender of nouns,
a lexical property that determines in many languages the inflection of
various constituents in the sentence that agree with the noun (Biran and
Friedmann 2012; Costa et al. 1999; Friedmann and Biran 2003; Schriefers
1993; Vigliocco and Franck 1999). It also includes information about
whether a noun is count or mass (Fieder, Nickels, and Biedermann 2011;
Herbert and Best 2010; Semenza, Mondini, and Cappelletti 1997).
The syntactic lexicon includes (only) idiosyncratic properties of lexical
items, that is, it only includes properties that do not stem from general
principles of Universal Grammar or of a specific language (Chomsky
354 N A A M A F R I E D M A N N , M I C H A L B I R A N , A N D D R O R D O T A N
1995b). For example, the fact that verbs in certain languages are followed
by their complements (I ate pomegranates and not I pomegranates ate) is a
general property of those languages (head-first languages) and therefore
not part of the lexical knowledge about each verb. In contrast, the set of
complements of a particular verb is an idiosyncratic property of that verb,
hence part of the verb’s lexical entry. Similarly, the grammatical gender of
a particular noun is an idiosyncratic property and therefore has to be listed
in its lexical entry.
Response-time studies revealed that upon access to a lexical entry of a
verb, all its complementation options are activated (Shapiro et al. 1987,
1989, 1991, 1993; Shapiro and Levine 1990). Shapiro and his colleagues
found that access to the argument structure of verbs is exhaustive, i.e. a
verb is always activated together with all the alternative argument struc-
tures it has, and hence, accessing verbs with more argument structure
options entails longer reaction times to a secondary task. Namely, it takes
longer to access and retrieve a verb like “want,” which can appear with
several possible complements, and hence be part of several verb-phrase
structures: want an apple, want to sleep, want that the winter will finally come,
than to access a verb like “fix,” which has only one possible argument
structure, with a noun phrase complement (fix the radio). These results are
further supported by imaging studies. Shetreet et al. (2007, 2010) found
brain areas that are more active when a person hears a sentence with a
verb that has more complementation options (subcategorization options).
Thus, an effect of the number of complementation options on the access to
verbs is indicative of a well-functioning syntactic lexicon. A similar pattern
of exhaustive access is also reported in the noun domain – the access to
ambiguous nouns (such as letter, for example) is also exhaustive. When we
hear a sentence with an ambiguous word, immediately after the ambigu-
ous word, all of the meanings of that word are activated. According to a
line of studies by Dave Swinney and his colleagues, exhaustive access to
nouns occurs even when the context strongly points to only one of the
meanings (see, for example, Swinney 1979; see also Love and Swinney
1996; Onifer and Swinney 1981).
A short note about the terminology in the lexical retrieval literature is
in order here. In early models of lexical retrieval, researchers referred to
the lexical entry in the semantic lexicon as lemma and to the lexical entry
in the phonological lexicon as lexeme. With time and development of
theories of lexical retrieval, different researchers used the term lemma
in different ways. Some refer to lemma as the entry in a syntactic lexicon
(Bock and Levelt 1994; Levelt et al. 1998; Roelofs 1992), others refer to it as
an entry in the semantic lexicon, yet others use the term for both
(Kempen and Hoenkamp 1987; Kempen and Huijbers 1983; Levelt 1989,
1992), namely, according to them the lemma includes a word’s semantic
representation as well as its syntactic representation. Clearly, the usage
of the term relates to the theory one holds with respect to whether or not
Aphasia and language impairment 355
there exists a syntactic lexicon that is separate from the semantic lexicon.
To avoid confusion, we will not use the term “lemma” here, but rather
use the, admittedly longer term, “semantic lexicon entry” and “syntactic
lexicon entry.”
19.2.2 Temporary word retrieval failures in normal speakers
Even though lexical retrieval of healthy speakers is usually efficient and
rapid, this process sometimes fails. The two main ways in which it fails
are cases in which the speaker tries, unsuccessfully, to retrieve a word,
and cases in which the speaker retrieves an incorrect word. The tempo-
rary inability to retrieve a word is termed “tip of the tongue” (TOT)
(Biedermann et al. 2008; Brown 1991; Brown and McNeil 1966; Levelt
et al. 1991; Schriefers, Meyer, and Levelt 1990). A person who tries to
retrieve the word but gets stuck in a TOT state usually has full semantic
information about the word she tries to retrieve, but only partial phono-
logical information. We are pretty sure that every reader has experienced
these states, and the feeling that the word is “on the tip of the tongue.” In
fact, Brown and McNeil (1966: 326), who were the first to systematically
explore TOTs, stated that the signs of TOT are unmistakable, and depicted
a person in this situation as being in “mild torment, something like the
brink of a sneeze.”
Many studies, starting with the work of Brown and McNeil (1966),
inquired into the characteristics of this state. Research provided various
characteristics of TOT. For example: people experience TOT universally,
TOT states occur about once or twice a week on the average for younger
adults, and their frequency increases with age. Speakers often have a
feeling of knowing about the target word, and can often provide semantic
and phonological information about the target words and judge whether a
word is the one they are looking for or not. In about half of the TOT states,
the target words are retrieved during the TOT experience, within a minute
or two. TOT states frequently occur when trying to retrieve proper names.
With respect to the partial phonological information, a bowed serial
position effect is often noticed, as speakers in a TOT state are often able
to access some of the segments of the target word, usually its first letter,
and sometimes also its suffixes. They also tend to be able to recall the
number of syllables in the word and the stress position, and often produce
words related to the target.
The other way in which retrieval can fail in healthy speakers is in slips of
the tongue, namely, when an incorrect word or nonword is produced
instead of the target word (Fromkin 1971; Garrett 1976; Levelt et al. 1991;
Schriefers, Meyer, and Levelt 1990). Examination of these speech errors
revealed that there are different types of errors, which can be broadly
categorized into semantic errors (such as “he sent a fax, ah . . . an email”)
and phonological errors (“choung . . . young children,” or “deand end” instead
356 N A A M A F R I E D M A N N , M I C H A L B I R A N , A N D D R O R D O T A N
of “dead end”). TOT states and slips of the tongue provide further support
for the separation between semantic and phonological levels in lexical
retrieval.
19.2.3 Naming of written words
Reading aloud of a written word is often termed “naming of a written
word.” Whereas this is a somewhat confusing term, because we tend to
think of naming as a process that starts from a concept, looking at the
model for single word reading (Figure 19.2) immediately clarifies in what
way reading is intimately related to naming. Firstly, the output of reading
aloud uses the same two phonological components we have described in
detail in the previous section: the phonological output lexicon and the
phonological output buffer. These components play a role not only in the
production of a word from a concept but also in the production of a word
that has arrived from the orthographic input lexicon. In addition, the
conceptual and semantic components we have described before also take
part in the reading process – they are responsible for the comprehension of
written words that arrived in the orthographic input lexicon.
Figure 19.2 shows the dual-route model for single word reading. This
model is the result of the work of cognitive neuropsychologists such as
Max Coltheart, John Marshall, Tim Shallice, Karalyn Patterson, Andrew
Ellis, Andrew Young, and others. This model describes the stages that a
reader passes from seeing a written word until its “naming,” i.e. reading
aloud using the phonological output lexicon and the phonological output
buffer. It also describes the stages of written word comprehension, via
the semantic lexicon and the conceptual system. The first stage of this
model includes orthographic-visual analysis that is responsible for the
encoding of letter identities and position (Coltheart 1981; Ellis 1993;
Conceptual
system
Grapheme – phoneme
conversion
Orthographic
visual analysis
Orthographic
input lexicon
Phonological
output lexicon
Phonological
output buffer
Semantic
lexicon
Figure 19.2 The dual-route model for single word reading.
Aphasia and language impairment 357
Ellis, Flude, and Young 1987; Ellis and Young 1996; Humphreys, Evett,
and Quinlan 1990; Peressotti and Grainger 1995). After this orthographic-
visual analysis, the information flows in two routes for reading aloud: the
lexical route, which includes the orthographic input lexicon and the
phonological output lexicon and buffer, and the sublexical route, in
which reading proceeds via grapheme-to-phoneme conversion. The
orthographic input lexicon holds the orthographic information about
the way the written words we know are written, and is connected to
the phonological output lexicon. The direct connection between these
lexicons allows for a rapid and accurate conversion from a written word
to its phonological form. All words that the reader knows can be read via
this lexical route, and it is the only route that enables the accurate read-
ing of irregular words like talk, knight, or debt, which are stored in the two
lexicons. The other route for reading aloud is the sublexical route, in
which letter strings are converted into sounds via grapheme-to-phoneme
conversion. This route enables the reading aloud of new words, which are
not yet stored in the orthographic input lexicon, and of nonwords. In
addition to these lexical and sublexical routes for reading aloud, the
model includes a connection between the orthographic input lexicon
and the conceptual–semantic system (through the semantic lexicon to
the conceptual system), which allows for the comprehension of written
words. Thus, naming of a written word shares components with the oral
naming of words that originate in a concept.
19.3 Types of anomia
Anomia is a deficit in lexical retrieval (from a = not, nomn = name). The
process of lexical retrieval can fail due to several different deficits: in
the conceptual level, in the semantic lexicon, in the syntactic lexicon, in
the phonological output lexicon, in the phonological output buffer, or
in the connections between these components. Impairments in these
different loci create lexical retrieval problems with different character-
istics. Knowing these characteristics can help in identifying the exact
locus of the deficit of an individual with anomia. It therefore has not
only theoretical but also clinical importance, because different types
of anomia often require different kinds of treatment (Nickels 2002).
Picture naming is the most commonly used task for the examination
of lexical abilities (Best 2005; Kambanaros 2008, 2010; Levelt et al. 1998),
as it involves all stages of word production and enables us to examine
the information the participants have about the target word, both
quantitatively and qualitatively.
In the following pages we describe the various types of anomia resulting
from deficits in the different possible loci. We describe the characteristics
of selective anomias – namely, what happens when an individual has a
358 N A A M A F R I E D M A N N , M I C H A L B I R A N , A N D D R O R D O T A N
single deficit along the lexical retrieval process. On top of these, there exist
more complex impairments, of individuals who have a combination of
deficits in several components, resulting in the combination of the rele-
vant symptoms.
19.3.1 A deﬁcit in the conceptual system
A deficit in the conceptual system is not a lexical retrieval deficit per se.
Indeed, it results in lexical retrieval failure, but it is located in a general
cognitive stage, before the lexical stages, and it is bound to cause not only
difficulties in lexical retrieval but also impaired comprehension of words
and sentences, presented auditorily or written, and impaired comprehen-
sion of non-verbal situations and of pictures and objects. Such individuals,
who have word production disorders that result from a conceptual deficit,
produce paraphasias (naming errors) that are not necessarily related to the
target word, such as “bridge” for “grapefruit.” They do not typically make
phonological errors, and should not have any specific problems in non-
word tasks such as nonword repetition (providing they understand the
task), because nonword production does not involve the conceptual sys-
tem. They fail not only in verbal tasks but also in conceptual tasks such as
odd-one-out in pictures (for example, a picture of a pen, pencil, eraser, and
a tooth brush), and picture association test (asking, for example, which of
two pictures is more closely related to a picture of an umbrella – a picture
of the sun or a picture of a rainy cloud). Such a conceptual impairment
is typical for at least some of the aphasics who are diagnosed with
Wernicke’s aphasia.
19.3.2 A deﬁcit in the semantic lexicon, semantic anomia
A deficit in the semantic lexicon would also cause incorrect naming, but
would take a different form. Individuals with semantic anomia mainly
produce semantic paraphasias, such as table for chair, giraffe for zebra, or
apple for plum. They might show an imageability effect, with better pro-
duction of high-imageability (concrete) words than of low-imageability
(abstract) words, and prototypicality effect, with more typical items of
the category, like apple, being produced instead of the less typical ones,
like plum (Cohen-Shalev and Friedmann 2011). Because the semantic lexi-
con is most probably shared by production and comprehension processes,
individuals with impairment at the semantic lexicon fail not only in word
retrieval but also in the comprehension of written and heard words.
Unlike individuals with a conceptually based deficit, the deficit of indivi-
duals with an impairment to the semantic lexicon is limited to the verbal
system. They perform well in picture tasks such as picture odd-one-out
and picture association, but fail in the parallel tasks that involve words.
Thus, they show difficulties in written and spoken word versions of the
Aphasia and language impairment 359
odd-one-out and word association tasks (asking, for example, to choose a
word that is more closely related to the written/heard word “umbrella,”
between the two written or heard words “sun” and “rain”). Because seman-
tic anomia is rooted in a lexicon, and not in the phonological buffers,
individuals with this type of anomia read and repeat nonwords correctly,
and do not make phonological paraphasias in naming.
A further phenomenon that is ascribed to a deficit in the semantic
lexicon is category-specific naming impairment. Individuals with this
deficit may be impaired, for example, in retrieving the names of living
things but not of nonliving things, or show a reverse pattern, with greater
difficulty with nonliving things than living things (e.g., Capitani et al. 2003;
Humphreys and Forde 2001; Laiacona et al. 2001; Mahon and Caramazza
2006; Tyler and Moss 2001; Warrington and McCarthy 1983, 1987;
Warrington and Shallice 1984). The deficit applies not only to word
retrieval but also to input tasks such as providing attributes pertaining to
heard names of animals. The grain of specificity of the category specific
impairment can be quite striking. For example, patients have been
described who have a deficit in living animate things (i.e. animals) but
not in living inanimate things (i.e. fruit/vegetables, Caramazza and Shelton
1998; Damasio et al. 1990; Silveri and Gainotti 1988). Other patients show a
selective deficit in fruits and vegetables. As an explanation for these
category-specific semantic impairments, Caramazza and Shelton (1998)
suggested that the semantic–conceptual system is organized domain-
specifically, according to an innate sets of categories.
19.3.3 A deﬁcit in the phonological output lexicon:
lexical-phonological anomia
A deficit in the phonological output lexicon also causes incorrect naming,
but this naming disorder exhibits different characteristics than the two
previously described deficits. Individuals who are impaired in this level
understand concepts well, and can access their corresponding represen-
tation in the semantic lexicon, but fail to activate the correct entry in
the phonological output lexicon. As a result, they make phonological
paraphasias. Typically, these individuals make not only phonological para-
phasias but also semantic paraphasias, possibly because they do not have
access to the phonological representation of the target word and thus a
representation of a semantically related word is activated (see Caramazza
and Hillis 1990, and Howard and Gatehouse 2006).
Because the phonological output lexicon is organized by frequency, these
individuals show a frequency effect (Jeschniak and Levelt 1994), whereby they
make more errors on the least frequent target words (in fact, the phonological
output lexicon is the only module in the speech production system that is
sensitive to word frequency, and causes such a frequency effect). Because this
deficit is in a stage following the conceptual and lexical-semantic stages and
360 N A A M A F R I E D M A N N , M I C H A L B I R A N , A N D D R O R D O T A N
does not affect them, individuals with a deficit in the phonological lexicon
perform well on conceptual comprehension tasks with pictures. Because
their deficit is in the phonological output lexicon, which is separate from
the phonological input lexicon, they understand heard (and written) words
well. Because nonword production does not involve the lexicons, they do not
have problems in reading or repeating nonwords.
Another implication of a deficit in the phonological output lexicon relates
to reading aloud. Recall that the phonological output lexicon is part of the
lexical reading route (Figure 19.2), the route that allows for accurate and rapid
reading, and is especially crucial for reading aloud of irregular words. When
the phonological output lexicon is impaired, reading aloud, even of words,
cannot proceed via the direct lexical route, and reading must therefore be
done via the sublexical route (see Gvion and Friedmann 2012c for a report of
individuals with acquired and developmental anomia in the phonological
output lexicon who demonstrated surface dyslexia in reading aloud). Reading
through the sublexical route results in words being read more slowly, and
irregular words being read aloud incorrectly (for example, walk may be read
with a pronounced l). The incorrect reading is most evident in reading
potentiophones, words that when read via the sublexical route can be read
as other existing words. These potentiophones can be read as the other word –
for example, know can be read as now, and angle as angel. Thus, a deficit in the
phonological output lexicon results not only in phonological and semantic
errors in naming but also in regularization errors in reading aloud, which are
characteristic of surface dyslexia (Broom and Doctor 1995; Castles, Bates, and
Coltheart 2006; Castles and Coltheart 1993, 1996; Coltheart and Byng 1989;
Coltheart and Funnell 1987; Coltheart et al. 1983; Ellis et al. 2000; Ferreres et al.
2005; Friedmann and Lukov 2008; Howard and Franklin 1987; Judica et al.
2002; Marshall and Newcombe 1973; Masterson 2000; Newcombe and
Marshall 1981, 1984, 1985; Temple 1997; Weekes and Coltheart 1996).
Semantic errors occur both in a semantic lexicon impairment and in a
phonological lexicon impairment; however, there are several straightforward
ways to distinguishbetween theseimpairments. Firstly, word comprehension
is impaired in a semantic lexicon impairment but not in a phonological
output lexicon impairment. Secondly, phonological output lexicon impair-
ment also entails phonological errors, whereas individuals with semantic
lexicon impairment do not make phonological errors. Finally, deficits at the
semantic and phonological lexicons are affected by different types of cues and
treatments. As Nickels (2002) indicated, for each type of naming deficit,
resulting from a deficit in different stages of processing, a different type of
treatment will be suitable. Thus, a treatment that focuses on word meaning
(e.g., picture–word matching task) would help in cases of semantic naming
deficit, and a treatment that focuses on the phonemes of the word (e.g., word
repetition task) would be effective in cases of phonological naming deficit (see
also Makin et al. 2004, and Nickels 2002). Indeed, phonological treatments
(using repetition, rhyming, or first phoneme) were found to improve
Aphasia and language impairment 361
word retrieval for phonologically impaired patients in several studies
(Lambon Ralph, Sage, and Roberts 2000; McDonald et al. 2006; Miceli et al.
1996; Raymer et al. 1993). An improvement due to a semantic treatment was
reported by Hillis (1998), who described a patient with asemanticimpairment
(as well as impairments in other levels of processing) whose naming was
improved after a treatment that focused on “teaching specific semantic
features.”
This difference between semantic and phonological facilitation was also
found for cues. Namely, when, upon retrieval failure the experimenter
provides the patient with a cue, either phonological or semantic. Biran and
Friedmann (2002) reported that individuals with impairment at the lexical-
semantic level were assisted by a semantic cue and individuals who were
impaired at the phonological level were assisted by phonological cues.
19.3.4 A deﬁcit in the connection between the semantic
and the phonological output lexicons
Impaired naming can result not only from a deficit in the components
themselves, but also from disconnections between them (as Carl Wernicke
had noticed already in his 1874 book). The impaired connection that is most
easily described and distinguished from a deficit in the components is the
impaired connection from the semantic lexicon to the phonological output
lexicon. This disconnection results, like lexical-phonological anomia, in
phonological and semantic paraphasias, alongside good comprehension of
pictures and words, and good reading and repetition of nonwords (and this
was in fact the pattern presented by the classic case of patient Johann Voit,
described by Garshey and discussed by Wernicke 1886; see De Bleser’s 1989
translation of Wernicke’s paper, and Bartles and Wallesch 1996 for a dis-
cussion). It differs from lexical-semantic anomia in that individuals with this
disconnection are expected to understand heard and read words well, but to
fail in producing them. It differs from lexical-phonological anomia in that
reading can still be done via the phonological output lexicon, and hence the
reading should not include regularizations of irregular words.
19.3.5 A deﬁcit in the phonological output buffer: phonological
buffer anomia
Individuals with phonological output buffer impairment also have word
production problems. Their error pattern includes only phonological
errors, and no semantic errors (they may, when failing to produce a
word, produce instead another word that is similar in meaning, but they
would know that it is not exactly the word they meant to use). Because
their deficit lies a long way after the conceptual and semantic stages, they
have no problems in comprehension tasks of pictures, written words,
or auditorily presented words. They do have a marked difficulty with
362 N A A M A F R I E D M A N N , M I C H A L B I R A N , A N D D R O R D O T A N
nonwords, because the phonological output buffer is responsible for hold-
ing and composing phonemes of nonwords, in reading and repetition
tasks. Their difficulty with nonwords and new words is often more severe
than their difficulty with real words, because nonwords cannot rely on
activations from the lexicon to support their production.
Because the phonological output buffer is a phonological short-term
component, it is affected by the length of the phonemic string it
holds (Franklin, Buerk, and Howard 2002; Nickels 1997) – strings that
are longer than its capacity are affected, and their phonemes are omitted
or substituted. Therefore, a word length effect indicates the involvement of
the buffer, and naming in phonological output buffer anomia is consid-
erably influenced by the length of the target word (unlike deficits in
earlier stages). Additional effects that are unique to anomia in the phono-
logical output buffer, or in the phonetic encoding stage, are the syllable
and phoneme frequency effects: individuals with phonological output
buffer anomia make fewer errors in frequent syllables than in infrequent
syllables, and fewer errors in frequent phonemes than in less frequent
ones (Goldrick and Rapp 2007; Laganaro 2005). Syllable and phoneme
frequency are inter-correlated, and Laganaro (2005) found that the an-
alysis of frequency by syllables is more reliable. The syllable frequency
effect is assumed to be caused by failure of access to the mental store of
syllables, which holds pre-assembled syllables (Laganaro 2008). The
phonological output buffer is closely related to phonological short-term
memory (pSTM). When tested in pSTM tasks, individuals with impaired
phonological output buffer typically show poor recall performance in
tasks such as digit span, word span, and nonword span (Gvion and
Friedmann 2012a,b). In pSTM tasks that involve recognition, without
oral recall, these individuals may show normal performance, unless
their phonological input buffer is also impaired.
Finally, recall that the phonological output buffer composes words
from phonemes and metrical information, and morphologically complex
words from morphemes. Therefore, a deficit in the phonological output
buffer affects these composition procedures. Importantly, because the
buffer handles units of different sizes (phonemes, pre-assembled mor-
phemes, and pre-assembled whole digit names), a deficit in this buffer
has different effect on these different types of words. Words are produced
with incorrect order of phonemes (fennel → fellen) or with substitution
or omissions of phonemes (fennel → feddel); morphologically complex
words are produced with substitution, omission, or addition of mor-
phemes (adjustment → adjustive); and numbers are produced with digit
substitutions (4068 → four thousand and sixty three). Crucially, because
the morphemes and the digits are already pre-assembled in the buffer,
individuals with phonological output buffer anomia usually do not make
phonological errors within morphemes or within digits. Individuals
with (output) conduction aphasia are typically impaired in the
Aphasia and language impairment 363
phonological output buffer (Franklin, Buerk, and Howard 2002; Gvion
and Friedmann 2012a; Pate, Saffran, and Martin 1987; Shallice, Rumiati,
and Zadini 2000).
19.3.6 A deﬁcit in the syntactic lexicon
Deficits in the syntactic lexicon are somewhat different in nature than
the aforementioned anomias. Whereas it is a deficit in the process of
lexical retrieval, it typically does not cause errors in the traditional single
word tasks of picture naming. Such deficits do have far-reaching impli-
cations, especially for sentence construction. If we take grammatical
gender as an example for information in the syntactic lexicon, in many
languages when requested to name a picture of an object, a bare noun
suffices, and there is no need to access the gender of the noun. However,
when this noun is incorporated in a sentence or a phrase, in many
languages this would require the agreement of another constituent
(such as the article) with this noun, or in syntactic terms, this would
include an agreement feature that needs to be checked. In this case, the
gender of the noun in the syntactic lexicon needs to be accessed. If
the syntactic lexicon is impaired, the agreement of the noun with the
verb, with pronouns, adjectives, and determiners would fail. Therefore,
to detect an impairment in the syntactic lexicon, tasks at the phrase or
sentence level should be used (Biran and Friedmann, in press; Friedmann
and Biran 2003; Schriefers 1993).
Impairments at the syntactic lexicon can also selectively affect the
speaker’s knowledge of the complements and arguments the verb can
appear with (its predicate argument structure, subcategorization, thematic grid,
or complementation frame). If this information is impaired, this can also
critically hamper the construction of sentences. Sentences can be pro-
duced without the required complements, or with incorrect comple-
ments. Such impairment in the Predicate Argument Structure has been
termed “aPASia” (Biran and Friedmann 2012). In a study that used the
effect of the number of complementation options on reaction time,
Shapiro and Levine (1990) and Shapiro et al. (1993) found that individuals
with Broca’s aphasia showed the effect, and hence demonstrated sensi-
tivity to verbs’ PAS. In contrast, individuals with Wernicke’s aphasia did
not show sensitivity to the number of complementation options that a
verb has in its lexical entry. This suggests that an impairment in
Wernicke’s area (left STG) causes aPASia.
Whereas this impairment in the syntactic lexicon clearly affects
the syntactic structure of sentences, it should not be confused with
another condition, agrammatic aphasia, which affects the syntactic
structure building, but does not necessarily affect the syntactic knowl-
edge at the single word level (Shapiro and Levine 1990; Biran and
Friedmann 2012). Similarly, in developmental language impairments,
364 N A A M A F R I E D M A N N , M I C H A L B I R A N , A N D D R O R D O T A N
children may have significant syntactic deficits without a deficit to the
syntactic lexicon (Kenan et al. 2007).
19.3.7 A summary of the properties of the various types of anomia
This pattern of impairments suggests a way to diagnose the locus of
impairment of each person with a naming impairment. In Figure 19.3 we
summarize the main error types and effects distinguishing between the
different impairment patterns.
19.4 Developmental anomia and its subtypes
Naming deficits are frequent among children with impaired language. For
example, Dockrell et al. (1998) reported that 23% of the children treated by
speech therapists in the UK had naming deficits. When a child has a lexical
retrieval deficit, it manifests itself in naming tasks as well as in free
conversation (German 2002).
Several studies examined the types of errors children produce when they
fail to retrieve a word and the types of preserved information they have.
These studies found that children produce various types of errors: semantic
errors, phonological errors, “don’t know” responses, unrelated errors, and
visual errors (Dockrell et al. 1998; Kambanaros and Grohmann 2010; Lahey
and Edwards 1999; McGregor 1994, 1997, and others). Semantic errors
seem to be the most frequent type of naming error in both language-
impaired and typically developing English-speaking children aged 3–6
(McGregor 1997), but language-impaired children produced more phono-
logical errors than the typically developing children. McGregor et al. (2002)
also found that semantic errors were the most frequent, and that most of
them were coordinate (i.e. at the same level of object – car-train), in a group
of typically developing children aged 5–7 years.
Phonological output
buffer
Phonological output
lexicon
Semantic lexicon
Conceptual
system
Word production
Error types
Unrelated paraphasias
Semantic paraphasias
Semantic and
phonological paraphasias
Phonological paraphasias,
morphological and digit
substitutions
Effects and task performance
Poor comprehension, even of pictures.
Imageability, category specificity, typicality
effects. Semantic cues facilitate retrieval.
Good nonword reading and repetition.
Word frequency effect, good nonword
reading and repetition, sublexical reading.
Phonological cues facilitate retrieval.
Length effect, syllable frequency effect,
impaired reading and repetition of
nonwords, impaired recall in pSTM tests.
Figure 19.3 Errors and effects that characterize each of the types of anomia.
Aphasia and language impairment 365
Moreover, there is evidence supporting the separation between process-
ing of semantic and phonological information in children, like in adults
after brain damage. Faust, Dimitrovsky, and Davidi (1997), for example,
found that Hebrew-speaking language-impaired children in second and
third grades could provide semantic information regarding words they
could not retrieve phonologically. Namely, they had access to the semantic
information of the word but not to its phonological information, indicat-
ing separate semantic and phonological levels.
Importantly, it seems that developmental lexical retrieval deficits take
very similar forms to the ones revealed in the work on acquired lexical
retrieval deficits in adults. Some researchers take the view that it is
possible to apply the framework developed in the research of adults with
acquired anomia to developmental disorders, of course considering the
developmental stage of the child (Best 2005; Friedmann and Novogrodsky
2008; Novogrodsky, Kreiser, and Friedmann 2010). Firstly, within this
view, developmental language impairments cause selective impairment
in various language abilities. Thus, developmental language impairments
include selective deficits in syntax (syntactic SLI or SySLI, Friedmann
and Novogrodsky 2008, 2011), with good lexical retrieval abilities, and
impaired lexical retrieval (a deficit that received various names, including
lexical SLI, LeSLI, developmental anomia, and dysnomia), with unimpaired
syntax. Then, within the developmental lexical retrieval deficit, distinct
types can be identified, in line with the types described above for adults
with acquired anomia.
To demonstrate how children and adolescents with lexical retrieval
impairments may be classified into the different anomia patterns
described above, we present here four case studies, whose loci of impair-
ment are summarized in Figure 19.4. Esther, Michal, and Ofer are Hebrew-
speaking children described in Friedmann, Hadar-Ovadya, and Levy
(in press), and Revital was described by Novogrodsky, Kreiser, and
Friedmann (2010).
Conceptual system
Phonological lexicon
Phonological buffer Phonological buffer
Phonological lexicon
Semantic lexicon
Conceptual system
Phonological buffer
Semantic lexicon
Conceptual system
Phonological buffer
Phonological lexicon
Semantic lexicon
Conceptual system
Revital
Esther Michal Ofer
Semantic lexicon
Phonological lexicon
Figure 19.4 The loci of impairment of four children with developmental anomia.
366 N A A M A F R I E D M A N N , M I C H A L B I R A N , A N D D R O R D O T A N
19.4.1 Esther, a girl with developmental semantic lexicon anomia
When we met Esther and evaluated her lexical retrieval abilities, she
was in 4th grade and 10;2 years old. She named correctly only 81% of
the words in a picture-naming test (on which age-matched typically
developing children perform 95% correct and above). Esther per-
formed well in the association tests that involved pictures, and had
no semantically unrelated paraphasias, which indicates that her con-
ceptual system was intact. She had many semantic paraphasias, and
poor performance in the association test in which the items were
words rather than pictures. She demonstrated a category-specific def-
icit in fruits and vegetables, and semantic cues helped her word
production. All these symptoms are consistent with a semantic lex-
icon deficit. She had no phonological paraphasias, and phonological
cues did not help her production, indicating that her phonological
output lexicon was intact. She also showed no length effect, and good
nonword repetition and reading, indicating that her phonological
output buffer was intact.
19.4.2 Revital, a girl with developmental anomia in the connection
between the semantic and phonological lexicons
When we met Revital she was in 6th grade and 12;9 years old. She
named correctly only 74% of the words in the picture-naming test. Like
Esther, she performed well in the picture-matching conceptual tests,
and had no semantically unrelated paraphasias, which indicates that
her conceptual system was intact. Her impaired picture naming
included 28% semantic errors and 8% phonological errors, showing
that her deficit could not be ascribed to a pure deficit at the semantic
lexicon: had she had a semantic lexicon deficit, one would not expect
phonological errors. She also did not have a deficit in the phonological
output buffer: her repetition of nonwords and her reading of nonwords
were intact. She also showed normal phonological STM. Another
indication for the involvement of the phonological stages (and specifi-
cally the phonological lexicon, because an impairment in the phono-
logical output buffer was ruled out), on top of her phonological errors
in naming, was the fact that phonological cues helped her retrieve
words.
To distinguish between a deficit in the phonological output lexicon
itself and a deficit in the access to this lexicon from the semantic
lexicon, we assessed her oral reading of irregular words and potentio-
phones. Her very good reading of irregular words indicated that she is
able to read via the lexical reading route (the route between the ortho-
graphic input lexicon and the phonological output lexicon), and hence
her deficit is not in the phonological output lexicon. Thus, all these
Aphasia and language impairment 367
symptoms are consistent with a deficit in the access from the semantic
lexicon to the phonological output lexicon, and this was indeed our
diagnosis.
19.4.3 Michal, a girl with developmental phonological
lexicon anomia
Michal was a 10;2 year old girl in 4th grade when we tested her lexical
retrieval abilities. She named correctly only 81% of the words in the
picture-naming test. She performed well in the association test
that involved pictures, and had no unrelated paraphasias, indicating
that her conceptual system was intact. She also performed well in the
lexical association task, indicating an intact semantic lexicon. In the
naming task she produced semantic and phonological paraphasias.
She showed word frequency effect, and her reading was characterized
by surface dyslexia. All these suggest that her phonological output
lexicon was impaired. Her phonological output buffer, conversely,
was intact: she showed no length effect, good repetition of nonwords,
good reading of nonwords, and good performance in the phonological
STM recall tasks.
19.4.4 Ofer, a boy with developmental phonological
output buffer anomia
Ofer was a 11;3 year old boy in 5th grade when we tested him. He named
correctly only 84% of the words in a picture-naming test. Like the three
other participants, he performed well in the association test that involved
pictures, and had no unrelated paraphasias, indicating an intact concep-
tual system. In addition, he had good performance on the association test
that included written words, and in word–picture matching tasks, indicat-
ing that his semantic lexicon was intact.
He produced mainly phonological paraphasias, and made only few
semantic paraphasias, which he immediately corrected. Phonological
cues of first phoneme helped him retrieve all but one word he had been
unable to retrieve before the cue. All these findings point in the direction
of a deficit at the phonological output stages.
The picture with respect to effects on his naming and the production of
nonwords provides the last piece of the puzzle, by answering the question
of whether his deficit is at the phonological output lexicon or a deficit at
the phonological output buffer. Ofer showed no frequency effect on his
naming, but did show length effect and syllable frequency effect. He
demonstrated poor repetition of nonwords, poor reading of nonwords,
and poor phonological working memory, all indicating an impairment in
the phonological output buffer.
368 N A A M A F R I E D M A N N , M I C H A L B I R A N , A N D D R O R D O T A N
19.5 The biology of lexical retrieval development
Thus, it is clear that developmental anomia exists, and in fact, various types
of developmental anomia exist. Not much is known at this stage about the
biological basis of these selective impairments, or about the biological path
of the development of lexical retrieval. Some studies focus on the genetic
bases of language impairments, as summarized in the chapter by Benı́tez-
Burraco. One recent study pointed at another cause for developmental
lexical retrieval impairments. Fattal, Friedmann, and Fattal-Valevski (2011)
conducted a study of children who suffered a deficiency in one specific
micronutrient, thiamine (vitamin B1), during their first year of life. Their
lexical retrieval was tested when they were 5–7 years old. Thiamine plays a
central role in cerebral metabolism. It serves as a cofactor for several
enzymes involved primarily in carbohydrate catabolism, converting glucose
to energy, the only energy source in the brain. These enzymes are important
in the biosynthesis of a number of cell constituents including neurotrans-
mitters. Thiamine also has a structural role in membrane structure and
function, it intervenes in synaptic transmission, and plays a role in cellular
differentiation, synapse formation, axonal growth, and myelinogenesis.
Fattal et al.’s study tested the effect of thiamine deficiency on lexical
retrieval. They discovered that 88% of these children showed significant
lexical retrieval impairments. They had hesitations, “don’t know”
responses, semantic paraphasias, and some morphological errors. The con-
ceptual abilities of these children were generally intact, their IQ was nor-
mal, and their vocabulary was normal. The thiamine deficiency during
infancy thus seems to have caused long-lasting disorders in lexical retrieval,
in the establishment of the cascaded mechanism for lexical retrieval we
described in this chapter. Because of the general role thiamine plays in the
brain and in brain development, it is probable that the effect of thiamine
deficiency is not on a specific brain region that specializes in lexical
processing. One possible mechanism is that when the brain is unable to
provide the necessary substrate for the development of the lexical retrieval
mechanism during a certain critical period, the damage is permanent. This
mechanism cannot develop at a later stage, after the critical period, even if
thiamine is already present. This study thus demonstrates that thiamine is
crucial for the development of the normal process of lexical retrieval, and it
also suggests that the development of this process has a certain early critical
period. (See Calderon and Naidu 2000; Yoshinaga-Itano 2003; Yoshinaga-
Itano and Apuzzo 1998a, 1998b for studies that report results regarding
early critical period for language and communication abilities in general,
and see Friedmann and Szterman 2006; Szterman and Friedmann 2003, for
critical period for first language syntax. See also Ruben 1997 for different
critical periods for different language domains, and Monjauze et al. 2005 for
a discussion of critical period in children with epilepsy.)
Aphasia and language impairment 369
19.6 Lexical retrieval in the brain
There are several methods to map the functional components of lexical
retrieval onto specific brain locations. One group of methods assesses
brain activations in the healthy brain; the other assesses brain areas in
individuals with anomia. Within the realm of imaging of normal brains,
one method is using brain imaging results to compare brain activations
during different tasks, and looking for brain regions that show specific
activation patterns (Indefrey 2007, 2011; Indefrey and Levelt 2000, 2004).
For example, brain regions that serve the semantic lexicon or the phono-
logical output lexicon are expected to be active in tasks of picture naming
but not during nonword production. Another method, aiming to identify
brain regions that are necessary for word production, is looking for regions
in which transient lesions, induced by electric stimulation, interfere with
certain word production tasks (Indefrey 2007, 2011, and references
therein). Yet another method is using MEG to break down the time course
of naming and identify different parts of sequential naming processes
(Indefrey and Levelt 2004; Levelt et al. 1998).
Finally, a way that is more intimately related to the types of anomia we
have discussed above is targeted at identifying brain areas that are neces-
sary for the various components of lexical retrieval. This is done using
structural imaging of the brains of individuals with anomia, by looking for
shared brain areas that are impaired for a group of individuals with an
impairment in the same functional component.
19.6.1 Brain areas identiﬁed in imaging studies
with healthy speakers
Indefrey and Levelt (2000, 2004) and Indefrey (2011) conducted compre-
hensive meta-analyses of tens of imaging studies of the regional cerebral
brain activation patterns observed during various lexical retrieval tasks.
Conceptual processing was found, in imaging studies as well as in
aphasia research, to involve widespread activation in a large set of
brain regions, including the posterior inferior parietal lobe, middle
temporal gyrus (MTG), the fusiform and parahippocampal gyri, the
dorsomedial prefrontal cortex, the inferior frontal gyrus (IFG), ventrome-
dial prefrontal cortex, and posterior cingulate gyrus, primarily in the
language dominant (usually left) hemisphere (Binder et al. 2009; Binder
and Price 2006).
The next stage in lexical retrieval is the access to the entry in the
semantic lexicon. Indefrey et al.’s meta-analyses indicated that the mid
section of the left MTG is active during word generation and picture
naming, but not during reading. They concluded that this region serves
the “conceptually-driven lexical selection” (Indefrey 2011), which, within
the model we presented above, can be thought of as the activation of the
370 N A A M A F R I E D M A N N , M I C H A L B I R A N , A N D D R O R D O T A N
semantic or the syntactic lexicon from the conceptual system. This map-
ping is also supported by the fact that semantic priming effects were also
found in this region (de Zubicaray et al. 2001), and lesions in this region
were found to be associated with semantic errors in aphasic patients
(Schwartz et al. 2009). Data from MEG studies show a relatively large
range of activation times, but it is still largely compatible with the assump-
tion that the left MTG is activated around an early time window of 175–250
milliseconds, the time window during which the selection of the entry in
the semantic lexicon is assumed to occur (e.g., Maess et al. 2002). An MEG
study conducted by Levelt et al. (1998) reported activation related to the
semantic/syntactic lexicon in the right parietal cortex, along the posterior
end of the superior temporal sulcus.
Not many studies investigated the neural representation of the syntactic
lexicon. However, a series of fMRI studies of the representation of argument
structure by Shetreet et al. (2007, 2009a, 2009b, 2010; Shetreet and
Friedmann 2012) pointed to several areas that are repeatedly activated
with respect to lexical-syntactic properties of verbs. These areas include
the left posterior superior temporal gyrus (STG), the MTG, the precuneus,
and two areas in the IFG, which do not include Broca’s area: BA 9 and BA 47.
The phonological output lexicon was identified in some imaging tasks
by being involved in the production of words but not of nonwords. This
pattern is most evident in the posterior parts of the left superior and
middle temporal gyri (namely, the information seems to flow posteriorily
and superiorily from the area identified as the semantic lexicon). Another
type of evidence for the involvement of the left STG in lexical-phonological
activities can also be seen in the reduced activation in this area when a
phonological distractor is used (Bles and Jansma 2008; de Zubicaray et al.
2002). Analysis of effects showed it to be sensitive to lexical frequency but
not to word length and object familiarity – a pattern that is consistent with
the phonological output lexicon (Graves et al. 2007; Wilson et al. 2009).
Finally, MEG studies on the left STG show activation times largely consis-
tent with the time window starting at 275 milliseconds after the presenta-
tion of the stimulus and onwards, which is assumed to be the time in
which the phonological output lexicon is accessed (see Indefrey 2011 and
references therein). Levelt et al. (1998), in a pioneering MEG study of lexical
retrieval, ascribed phonological encoding to the posterior STG and the
temporoparietal junction. It should be noted, however, that not all
researchers share this view regarding the phonological output lexicon
activations in posterior STG. Edwards et al. (2010), for example, claim
that the left posterior STG participates only in speech comprehension,
and its role in speech production is merely auditory self-monitoring.
With respect to the localization of the phonological output buffer, it
seems that studies of lesions of individuals with conduction aphasia,
which we review below in Section 19.6.2, provide a fuller picture than
the imaging studies with healthy participants. Hickok and Poeppel (2007)
Aphasia and language impairment 371
suggest that the phonological buffer is represented in area Spt (Sylvian
parietal temporal – an area within the Sylvian fissure at the parietal–
temporal boundary), which activates Broca’s area and sends it motor
rather than phonological information. According to Hickok and Poeppel,
the phonological buffer is an emergent property of sensory-motor circuits
and sensory-motor integration (see also Buxbaum et al. 2011).
In search for post-lexical areas, Indefrey (2011) mentions the left poste-
rior IFG in relation to the the syllabification process, and presents in detail
the controversy about the exact role of this area, and in which post-lexical
process it is involved. Data from individuals with an impairment in the
phonological output buffer, which we survey below, suggest that the left
posterior IFG serves later, post-lexical stages, rather than the phonological
output buffer. The right supplementary motor area (SMA) and the left
anterior insula were also mentioned as post-buffer phonetic areas, related
to articulatory processing (Indefrey 2011; Indefrey and Levelt 2004).
19.6.2 Brain areas identiﬁed from lesions of individuals
with anomia
DeLeon et al. (2007) used a different approach to associate brain areas with
specific cognitive functions. They examined a group of 116 aphasic
patients who were within 24 hours from an acute left hemisphere stroke.
They assessed these patients’ functional impairment in lexical retrieval
and matched it to their brain lesions. First, they administered to each
patient a battery of language tasks, and identified the functional locus of
impairment for each patient. They did this by analyzing error types,
similarly to the analyses described throughout this chapter. This resulted
in classifying the patients into four groups, according to their functional
deficit: (1) a deficit in the conceptual/semantic system; (2) a deficit in a
lexical stage that is common to speech and writing, which they termed
“modality-independent lexical access”; (3) a deficit in the phonological
output lexicon; and (4) a deficit in post-lexical stages, i.e. the phonological
output buffer or the articulatory stages. Along with this functional classi-
fication, DeLeon et al. analyzed brain imaging data (obtained using mag-
netic resonance diffusion and perfusion imaging) to identify the anatomic
areas damaged by the stroke in each patient. Eventually they performed
statistical analysis to associate the brain areas with the functional deficits.
Using this procedure, they discovered several areas that are crucially
involved in the various stages of lexical retrieval. An important difference
exists between functional imaging studies of healthy participants and
studies like De Leon et al.’s, which assess brain lesions and their functional
effects. Whereas functional imaging studies of healthy participants pro-
vide evidence for the areas that are reliably activated in a certain task or
comparison of tasks, studies of lesions can provide a window into which
areas are necessarily involved in a specific functional stage.
372 N A A M A F R I E D M A N N , M I C H A L B I R A N , A N D D R O R D O T A N
DeLeon et al.’s study found that lesions in Brodmann areas 21 (which
roughly corresponds to the MTG) and 22 (STG, including Wernicke’s area)
were most frequent in the group of patients with a semantic/conceptual
deficit. They therefore concluded that these areas serve the conceptual/
semantic system – namely, the conceptual system and/or the semantic
lexicon. Indeed, area 21 more or less overlaps the MTG, which, according
to the imaging studies on healthy participants described above, serves
conceptual processes and “semantically driven lexical access.”
A deficit in modality-independent lexical access stage (which might
correspond to the semantic lexicon) and in the phonological output lex-
icon were associated with left Brodmann 37 (posterior, inferior temporal/
fusiform gyry) and 39 (angular gyrus), again, areas adjacent to (though not
identical with) the left posterior STG and MTG, which were found as the
areas serving the phonological lexicon in imaging studies of healthy
individuals.
The post-lexical deficit was found, in DeLeon’s study, to be associated
with lesions in areas 44 and 45 (inferior frontal gyrus, IFG, Broca’s area),
but it seems that these areas were not involved in the phonological
output buffer but rather in later motor and articulatory processes (as
can also be seen in another study of a temporary lesion of Broca’s area,
Davis et al. 2008). Generally, studies of impairments in the phonological
output buffer in conduction aphasia have consistently indicated that
phonological buffer impairments are related to lesions in the STG and
inferior parietal cortex (Baldo, Klostermann, and Dronkers 2008),
mainly in the left posterior STG (Hickok et al. 2000; Hickok and
Poeppel 2007) and in the anterior supramarginal gyrus (Palumbo et al.
1992; Damasio and Damasio 1980). Within these two areas, the output
type of conduction aphasia (and hence, phonological output buffer) is
probably localized in the supramarginal area, and the superior tempo-
ral areas are more probably related to the phonological input buffer
(Axer et al. 2001).
19.7 Epilogue
Thus, the lexical retrieval process is a complex, multi-staged process,
which is tightly related to other language domains such as reading,
comprehension, and syntax. We have described in this chapter the vari-
ous stages of this process, their biolinguistic bases and neural correlates,
and the patterns of acquired and developmental anomias that result from
selective deficits in each of the stages. The ever-growing body of theoreti-
cal and empirical knowledge on the normal process of lexical retrieval
contributed to the study of lexical retrieval breakdown and its neural
substrates. Knowing the various ways in which lexical retrieval can break
down and the way the various lexical retrieval components are
Aphasia and language impairment 373
implemented in the brain, in turn, have provided constraints on the
theory of lexical retrieval. Apart from the importance of the theoretical
knowledge that has accumulated about lexical retrieval theories,
research of normal and impaired lexical retrieval bears insurmountable
importance for the diagnosis of the specific deficit of each individual
with anomia, and for the selection of the most appropriate treatment
for each individual.
374 N A A M A F R I E D M A N N , M I C H A L B I R A N , A N D D R O R D O T A N
20
Genetics of language:
Roots of speciﬁc
language deﬁcits
Antonio Benítez-Burraco
20.1 Genetics of language
The feasibility of the identification and the structural and functional
characterization of genes related to language (i.e. genes whose products
plausibly play a relevant role in the regulation of the development and
functioning of neural centres involved in the processing of linguistic
stimuli) seems legitimated (and required) by two groups of evidence of
different though necessarily related kinds. The first group concerns that
evidence that suggests that the nature of the faculty of language (hence-
forth, FL) would be substantively innate, which basically means that the
linguistic competence finally acquired by individuals at the end of their
development cannot be uniquely (and properly) explained as a final
result of a process of inductive learning, which would depart from the
data which make up the linguistic input such individuals are confronted
with during growth (Chomsky 1959a; 1980: 34; Fodor and Crowther
2002). Following Chomsky (1980: 75–76), and borrowing the concepts
from the field of genetics, Anderson and Lightfoot (1999) have conse-
quently postulated the existence of (i) a linguistic genotype, which
would encompass all the information not derivable from experience
which is essential for the acquisition of language and which will, in
essence, be necessary for making up a Universal Grammar; and (ii) a
linguistic phenotype, which would equate to the grammatical compe-
tence finally acquired by each individual. In any case, it is worth bearing
in mind that what can be regarded as “innate” necessarily transcends
what can be considered “genetic” (cf. Wimsatt 1999), so that, as far as
(i) there exist other hereditary mechanisms alternative to genetic codifi-
cation stricto sensu, such as epigenesis or maternal inheritance (Davidson
1986; Wolffe and Matzke 1999); (ii) part of the information which deter-
mines the features and functional properties of any biological structure
seems to be generated as a consequence of the developmental process
itself (Oyama 2000; Oyama et al. 2001); (iii) to some extent, the develop-
ment (and functioning) of the FL seems to depend on general laws which
regulate the self-organization of biological systems (Kauffman 1995,
2000); and (iv) considering the term “innate” should also lead to a critical
reappraisal of phenomena such as social learning and culture, which can
also be regarded as relevant forms of inheritance in the case of certain
behavioural phenotypes (Avital and Jablonka 2000; Jablonka and Lamb
2005). In addition, the term “innate” can point to substantially dissimilar
forms of regulation of the development and organization of brain struc-
tures, such as those implied by, on the one hand, the Functional System
of Language (Lieberman 2000, 2002) or the Faculty of Language in a Broad/
Narrow Sense (henceforth, FLB and FLN, respectively) (Hauser et al. 2002),
or, on the other hand, modularism (Fodor 1983), though when consider-
ing the latter possibility, there would also be significant differences
between a pre-wired brain and a hard-wired one (Ramus 2006). These topics
will be re-examined and further discussed in Sections 20.4.3, 20.6.1,
and 20.6.2.
A second group of evidence concerns the existence of many language
impairments characterized by an inherited nature (Tomblin 1989;
Bishop and Leonard 2001; for a review see Benı́tez-Burraco 2009: 83–
227). It seems easier (and more enlightening), in order to identify genes
related to language, to depart precisely from the analysis of subjects
which exhibit an anomalous performance (plausibly as a consequence
of the dysfunction of specific components of competence or of the com-
petence as a whole), instead of departing from individuals categorized as
normal (as this would demand to discriminate, functionally and struc-
turally, those components when they are intact). And this mainly when
there is no sufficient consensus about the actual nature of language,
which has been indistinctly (and among many other things) character-
ized as (i) a component of human behaviour, (ii) a cognitive competence,
(iii) a typical behavioral feature of social beings, (iv) an application of
social intelligence, or (v) a social and/or a cultural phenomenon (Botha
2000). In fact, there seems not to be an ample consensus even regarding
the diverse nativist models which have been improved following those
of Chomsky, insofar as, according to the latter paradigm, phenotypes
which would deserve to be analyzed could indistinctly be (i) the Universal
Grammar per se; (ii) some of its components; or, if we abide by the new
conception of language which, within Chomskyan thought, represents
the Minimalist Model (Chomsky 1995b), (iii) FLN, i.e. what Chomsky
himself has pointed out as the main innovation for human language
from a biological perspective, namely, recursion (Hauser et al. 2002), or
(iv) FLB, i.e. all the aspects related to contents to be expressed and
interpreted, and also to signals employed in their transmission (Hauser
et al. 2002). So, in essence, a crucial working hypothesis regarding the
characterization of genes related to language has been the following: a
376 A N T O N I O B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O
specific language impairment or disorder, whether of an inherited
nature, must be a consequence of a gene mutation which, affecting
a (specific) component of competence, would nevertheless leave unaffected
the other cognitive capacities/abilities (some of which will be involved in
performance); on the other hand, a comparative analysis among different
linguistic impairments or disorders at the genetic level should allow us to
discriminate among (and determine the interaction of) the different genes
involved in the regulation of FL development.
20.2 Methodological issues concerning the
identiﬁcation and characterization of genes
related to language
20.2.1 Which phenotype do we start from?
The experimental analysis of competence, dysfunctional or afunctional
(but also functional), must necessarily depart from an assessment of
performance. A main goal at this level should be a maximization of the
linguistic nature of the experimental tests designed to evaluate the lin-
guistic capacities of the subjects and, consequently, to infer the nature of
their grammatical knowledge, in order to minimize the effect exerted on
performance by the cognitive or pragmatic factors necessarily involved
in communication. On the other hand, a proper design of such tests
should allow us to discriminate among what we usually categorize as
the diverse functions or functional components of competence (phono-
logical processing, syntactic processing, etc.) as they are described and
characterized by linguists. As will be discussed in Section 20.4.2, an
inappropriate delimitation, characterization and/or categorization of
language impairments and disorders at the phenotypic level will cru-
cially condition the relevance and the signification of the results derived
from their analysis at the remaining levels of biological complexity,
particularly at the genetic level.
Otherwise, the convenience (and necessity) to leave aside an older con-
ception of language impairments and disorders which conceptualized
these as discrete categories (and which correlatively saw competence as a
cognitive capacity with a bimodal distribution [affected/nonaffected])
becomes progressively more evident. In fact, language impairments
seem to be more properly described as concrete intervals within a contin-
uum, conventionally delimited in virtue of certain measures of a statistical
nature, and of which those individuals who exhibit a linguistic compe-
tence regarded as normal would also be part. What also seems particularly
relevant in this context is the fact that a characterization of such impair-
ments as bimodal variables significantly simplifies their genuine genetic
(and molecular) nature, suggesting that only a few principal genes are
involved, and that these, when mutated, give rise to the condition. In
Genetics of language 377
fact, the number of candidate genes for different language impairments
and disorders, of genes which can be considered risk factors in their
appearance, and of loci (i.e. physical places on the chromosome) which
can be linked or associated to them have exponentially increased with
time (Smith 2007; Benı́tez-Burraco 2009: 240–281). On the other hand,
such a categorization minimizes the foremost role played, in the regula-
tion of the development of the neural substrate of linguistic competence of
the people affected, by the complex way in which, as will be discussed in
Section 20.6, a multiplicity of genetic, epigenetic, ontogenetic, and envi-
ronmental factors interacts (of which only some will be dysfunctional or
afunctional) during ontogeny (for a review concerning the FL per se, see
Benı́tez-Burraco 2009: 355–364). A characterization of language impair-
ments and disorders (but also of the linguistic competence of the non-
affected population) as continuous variables is also at the core of the use of
the so-called QTLs (quantitative trait loci) for the genetic analysis of this
kind of conditions (see also Section 20.2.4).
20.2.2 Heritability of language impairments
Different methodological tools allow us to evaluate the extent to
which genetic factors contribute to the emergence of a particular
dysfunctional or afunctional cognitive phenotype. Among others, the
following deserve to be mentioned: (i) studies of familial aggregation,
which determine the incidence of the impairment among the affected
subject’s relatives (though it must also be kept in mind that such analyses
do not allow us to discriminate the aggregation caused by cultural
transmission); (ii) analyses of identical and non-identical twins, which
evaluate the incidence of the impairment among individuals of equal or
different genetic background raised in similar family environments;
(iii) studies of adopted individuals, which settle on the incidence of the
condition among individuals of identical genetic background but
raised in different milieus, in order to discriminate the hypothetical
effect exerted by the (familial) environment on the emergence of the
trait; or (iv) studies of kinship, which analyze the pattern followed by
the segregation of the phenotype, in order to establish how the impair-
ment is transmitted (Stromswold 1998; Bishop 2001a, 2001b; Stromswold
2001).
20.2.3 Cloning strategies
20.2.3.1 Basic characterization
Once the hereditability of the phenotype to be analyzed is properly
attested, a foremost and particularly productive tool for identifying the
gene (or genes) presumably affected is positional cloning, which allows us
to correlate, in the absence of significant evidence about the aetiology of
378 A N T O N I O B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O
the disorder, the phenotype with a particular chromosomal fragment.
In order to properly identify and delimit this chromosomal fragment it
is necessary to find out the cohereditability of the trait with a suitable
number (in statistical terms) of polymorphic genetic markers (usually,
SNPs [single nucleotide polymorphisms]), whose position along each chromo-
some is previously known. The number of markers to be considered
depends on whether the kin relationships among the subjects which
integrate the experimental group are known or unknown. If the former
is the case, just around four hundred highly polymorphic markers
could be enough to properly identify chromosomal regions between 10
and 30 Mb (1Mb = 1,000,000 DNA bases), though it is evident that such
small fragments will plausibly still contain several dozens of genes
(Francks et al. 2002). Anyway, in such circumstances the analysis is con-
ventionally known as linkage analysis. When phylogenetic relationships
among the individuals which constitute the experimental groups are
unknown and/or suitable lineages (i.e. pedigrees which not only encom-
pass affected people but which are also large enough to obtain statisti-
cally significant results) are not available, it is necessary to substantially
increase the number of genetic markers in order to properly delimit the
region of interest, to the point even of multiplying by six or seven
hundred the number of markers employed in linkage analyses (Cardon
and Bell 2001). Alternative studies of this kind are known as association
analyses.
Once the relevant region is conveniently delimited, it is necessary to
generate a population of overlapping clones; such clones should be
sequenced to settle on the identity and nature of the gene (or genes)
they comprise (Brzustowicz 1998). A crucial step here is the in-depth
(and suitable) computational analysis of the sequences, and particularly,
the comparison with sequences of genes of known function. This not
only allows us to determine the presence of putative genes, but also to
obtain relevant information about their structural features, and also
about the nature and function of the biochemical products encoded by
them. Candidate genes will then be appropriately analyzed in functional
terms.
When the impaired phenotype specifically entails the atypical pres-
ence, accumulation, or degradation of one particular biochemical prod-
uct, and the identity and the biological activity of the enzyme involved
in its biosynthesis or catabolism are known, the so-called functional
cloning significantly simplifies the identification of the gene presumably
mutated in the disorder. This methodological strategy basically consists
of a screening of different expression libraries (if the sequence(s) of
the gene(s) which encode(s) the corresponding enzyme(s) in other organ-
ism(s) is/are also unknown) or different cDNA or gDNA human libraries
using heterologous probes (whenever such information is accessible)
(Brzustowicz 1998).
Genetics of language 379
Similarly, when information about the genetic basis of akin disorders in
other species is available – i.e. disorders (i) whose structural and/or func-
tional features at the neural level are similar to those described in humans,
(ii) whose phenotypic characteristics at the cognitive level properly resem-
ble those observed in our own species, and/or (iii) which affect any brain
region which can be accurately regarded as homologous to any of the areas
which make up the neural substrate of the FL – comparative cloning, an
alternative cloning strategy, also simplifies the identification of the
affected gene(s). In this case, the cloning process demands the employ-
ment of heterologous probes (using highly homologous DNA fragments)
for the screening of human gDNA or cDNA libraries (Brzustowicz 1998).
20.2.3.2 Implementation
To some extent, the aforementioned tools designed for the identification
and cloning of genes related to language have been simplified (or comple-
mented) thanks to the following circumstances:
(i) the fact that genes which can be linked or associated to language (or
to any of its dysfunctional or afunctional phenotypes) seem to be not
randomly localized in the genome, plausibly because a non-arbitrary
distribution allows for a coordinated transcriptional activation of
(many of) them. So, in particular, the density of such genes reveals
as notably high in certain regions of chromosome 7 (Ramsay 2000;
Benı́tez-Burraco 2009: 197–205)
(ii) the analysis of probands whose karyotype exhibits significant evi-
dences of chromosomal rearrangements. A detailed analysis of the
breaking points allows us to easily establish if a particular functional
gene has been affected. The analytical yield of this kind of surveys has
been crucially enhanced by the recent improvement of new tools with
an increased resolution capacity. Fluorescence in situ hybridization
(FISH) is a leading example, as it can detect translocation events
between chromosomal fragments of just 100 kb (1 kb = 1,000 DNA
bases) (Stankiewicz and Lupski 2006; Volpi and Bridger 2008).
(iii) the recent development of the so-called genome-wide association studies
(GWASs); as these studies make use of the whole genome, they offer
two major advantages (Zondervan and Cardon 2007; Potkin et al. 2009):
(a) they make unnecessary linkage analyses; so the aforementioned
gain (but also the difficulty) of having lineages which encompass
affected individuals substantially vanishes;
(b) they allow us to simultaneously establish thepresence and thelocal-
ization of multiple loci of susceptibility to a certain disorder (or
related to a particular cognitive capacity), unlike linkage and associ-
ationanalyses,whichexclusivelyfocusonjustonelocus(orafewloci).
(iv) the categorization of language impairments as continuous variables,
and hence, and as we previously pointed out, the application of the
380 A N T O N I O B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O
former cloning techniques to the identification of QTLs (Lander and
Kruglyak 1995; Risch and Merikangas 1996), whose ultimate aim is
the detection of multiple genes which exert a relatively small effect
on a particular trait (Bishop 2002). QTLs present the additional
advantage of allowing the apprehension of the variability detected
in (and characteristic of) groups regarded as normal (i.e. nonaffected).
(v) the employment of endophenotypes as the starting point for linkage
and association analyses. An endophenotype can be defined as any
quantifiable component of the different levels of biological complexity
between linguistic competence (or one particular dysfunction of it) and
genes, and their nature can be cognitive, neuroanatomical, neurophy-
siological, endocrine, or biochemical (Gould and Gottesman 2006). The
ultimate (biological) justification for their employment will be fully
discussed in Section 20.4.3, but for the moment it will be sufficient to
keep in mind that they provide more direct evidence of the genetic
foundations of a certain cognitive capacity (or of the causes of a particu-
lar cognitive impairment), as they refer to concrete (and more physio-
logical) aspects of brain functioning (Gottesman and Gould 2003). The
use of endophenotypes also allows a more justified, rigorous, and
productive utilization of animal models when analyzing genes related
to language and to disorders which arise as a consequence of a dys-
function of linguistic competence (Section 20.2.5), because in most
cases it is possible to find at all those levels particular components
which can properly be regarded as homologous to the ones previously
analyzed in humans (Gould and Gottesman 2006, and Section 20.2.5).
20.2.3.3 Shortcomings/special considerations
In any case, it deserves to be mentioned that the analytical output and
yield of the above-mentioned techniques for identifying and characteriz-
ing genes related to language is also limited by different factors:
(i) QTLs do not allow us to fully apprehend the complex interaction
among (multiple) genetic, epigenetic, ontogenetic, and environmental
factors (of which only some will be dysfunctional or afunctional) which
seems to underlie inherited language impairments, as we previously
pointed out. The principal reasons for this are that this kind of analysis
(a) looks for the identification of merely genetic factors, and so cannot
provide any information about the remaining (molecular) factors
involved in the emergence of the phenotype; (b) it cannot either prop-
erly detect highly polymorphic loci, as it assumes that the phenotypic
variation observed in the analyzed population is caused by a reduced
number of genetic variants (Cardon and Bell 2001), while this is not
always true when considering language impairments and disorders.
(ii) positional cloning manifests another crucial (and particularly signi-
ficant) limitation, i.e. it establishes correlations between certain
Genetics of language 381
phenotypes and certain genes whose validity is restricted to concrete
populations and particular environmental conditions; so the
assumption of a universal validity of such correlations must be
avoided (Hofmann 2003).
(iii) the results obtained when resorting to positional cloning are of a
statistical nature; this means that correlations between phenotypes
and genes cannot properly be interpreted as compulsory causal rela-
tionships between them (Fisher 2006); what is more, such an inter-
pretation would contravene the genuine role which genes play in the
regulation of the development of the neural structures implied in
language processing (Sections 20.5 and 20.6).
(iv) when positional cloning departs from a particular endophenotype, it
is worth bearing in mind that although each of the identified genes
could explain most of the variance of the endophenotype (see Flint
and Munafo 2007 for an opposite opinion), it can only explain a
minimal percentage of the variance of the whole cognitive capacity
(Leboyer et al. 1998; Almasy and Blangero 2001). On the other hand, a
succeeding identification of genes related to one particular cognitive
capacity will always heavily depend on an appropriate selection of
the endophenotypes to be later employed in linkage and association
analyses.
(v) although (molecular) tools conventionally used for the genetic analy-
sis of the FL (and particularly of genes and their direct products [ARN
and proteins]) have been largely improved in recent years and exhibit
a noteworthy analytical yield, this is not the case with tools devoted
to the analysis of (i) epigenetic and maternal factors, nor with factors
associated to/generated by the developmental process itself; (ii) levels
of complexity located between genes (and their products) and brain
areas in whose development they play a crucial role (metabolomes,
subcellular organelles, brain cells, synaptic activities, and specific
brain circuits) (Choudhary and Grant 2004); and (iii) the complex
interaction which takes place among all the former factors and
levels, which is usually a non-linear interaction.
20.2.4 Structural and functional analysis of cloned genes
As was previously suggested, in silico analysis of candidate sequences should
be necessarily complemented with functional studies (in vitro and in vivo), in
order to fully and properly characterize the transcriptional and transla-
tional profiles of the identified genes, the biochemical properties of the
products they encode, and, finally, the physiological role carried out by such
products, in a way that makes it feasible to establish how the mutation of
the genes contributes to the emergence of the disorder (Gibson and Gruen,
2008). Within this kind of studies a crucial step is usually the searching
for, and the analysis of, genes which can be regarded as homologous,
382 A N T O N I O B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O
orthologous, and paralogous to the identified human ones (generally from
different model organisms, typically rat and mouse, but also songbirds in
the case of the FL [see Section 20.3.1]). This is not only justified from an
evolutionary perspective, but also because of the relevance of the analysis of
the physiological consequences of their ad hoc modification for produc-
tively inferring the physiological role of the corresponding human genes,
and hence, the phenotypic effects that their mutation would plausibly cause
in human beings (see Sections 20.2.5, 20.3.1, and 20.3.2).
Whatever the case may be, once the product of the gene expression is
elucidated and properly characterized, it is also important to evaluate the
functional value of the different variants (functional, dysfunctional, or
afunctional) that have naturally arisen in different human populations,
with the aim of trying to establish the pertinent correlations between the
variations detected at the structural level (in genetic and protein terms
[alleles and protein polymorphisms, respectively]), and those detected at
the phenotypic level (in terms of linguistic competence): a leading hypoth-
esis here will be that the former should be related to the latter in causal
terms at some level of biological complexity. The main analytical tool for
this endeavor is known as allelic association analysis (Wahlsten 1999).
20.2.5 Animal models
At first glace, a genetic analysis of language seems to be necessarily circum-
scribed to (i) our own species, and (ii) dysfunctional or afunctional pheno-
types that have naturally arisen in different human populations. The first
contingency is due to the fact that, as Chomsky (1972b/2006; 1980/2005) (but
also many others) has accurately pointed out, there seems to exist a funda-
mental discontinuity between language and the communicative systems
employed by the remaining species (nevertheless, the adoption of the
Minimalist Program [(Chomsky 1995b)] has implied a significant inflection
of his initial thesis about the formal discontinuity and functional inspeci-
ficity of language [Section 20.6.2]). The second contingency is due to the fact
that because of ethical concerns we cannot proceed in such analyses in a
reverse way (reverse genetics), i.e. deliberately mutating sequences of interest
and subsequently establishing and evaluating their consequences at the
phenotypic level (and in general, at all the remaining levels of biological
complexity of the FL). Nonetheless, the fact that (i) at the cognitive, neuro-
biological, and molecular levels there exists a genuine continuity between
the FL and certain capacities, structures, and genetic sequences, respec-
tively, which are present in other organisms, and which consequently can
be properly regarded as homologous to the ones present in human beings;
and (ii) it is feasible (and ethically admissible) to deliberately alter such
genes or such brain regions in the former species, decidedly justifies
the employment of model organisms for analyzing certain language disor-
ders (Sections 20.3.1 and 20.3.2, for instance) and the FL as a whole.
Genetics of language 383
As previously discussed, this analytical strategy has become increasingly
customary when functional studies must be conducted in order to clarify
the physiological role of the products encoded by the candidate genes
previously identified due to functional cloning. The main reason for this is
again that the possibility of making ad hoc modifications of homologous,
paralogous, and orthologous genes (either inactivating them [knockout], or
altering their expression levels [knockdown]) allows a more rigorous and
productive analysis of such a role. A main objective here is particularly to
clarify if such modifications give rise to neural anomalies similar to those
detected in humans (both at the structural and functional levels), and
especially if they also give rise to articulatory, perceptive, or cognitive
deficits which satisfactorily recapitulate those described in our own species.
As will be discussed in Section 20.3, this particular circumstance has been
attested for some of the genes which have to date been found related to
different language impairments and disorders.
However, although the degree of homology between two different genes
(or even between two particular neural structures) can be (quite) precisely
established, this is not always the case with behavior, where a presupposed
homology can actually be a case of analogy (Wahlsten 1999). As (i) linguistic
competence must be properly regarded as a multifactorial trait (at all
levels of complexity), and as (ii) interactions holding among all the
relevant factors involved turn out to be particularly complex, it seems
especially compulsory to develop precise tools for the statistical analysis of
the genotype–phenotype correlations; these tools should be powerful
enough to accurately detect mild or less perceptible variations in behavior
as a result of knockdown and knockout experiments. Such tools should also be
integrated in a methodological framework of multidisciplinary analysis of
complex behaviors, a practice increasingly known as phenomics (Gerlai 2002).
This phenomics would ideally pay attention to the phenotypic conse-
quences of the modification of the expression of a significant number of
genes (ideally, the whole genome) (Wahlsten 1999), as GWASs already do.
20.3 Genetics of speciﬁc language impairments
In the last few decades many different hereditary syndromes, disorders,
conditions, or diseases in which only language seems to be impaired have
been identified, characterized, and clinically categorized. Most relevant
are the ones subsequently described:
20.3.1 Speciﬁc language impairment (SLI)
SLI is regarded to be present in those subjects who exhibit an abnormal
process of language acquisition in the absence of non-linguistic causes,
such as neurological dysfunctions, cognitive (in a broad sense) or mental
384 A N T O N I O B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O
delay, auditory impairments, or an inadequate or insufficient exposure to
linguistic stimuli during development, plausibly as a consequence of the
socio-educational peculiarities of the milieu in which they have been
reared (Bishop and Leonard 2001; Leonard 2002).
Several QTLs linked or associated to diverse varieties of SLI have already
been identified, though the most prominent results correspond for the
moment to a plausible subtype of the condition which would be caused by
mutations in just a single gene, namely FOXP2, which has been regarded as
“the language gene” par excellence. This gene encodes a transcriptional
repressor (Shu et al. 2001; Vernes et al. 2006) which seems to be involved
in the regulation of neural differentiation (and plausibly in establishing
the cellular identity and/or function) needed for the correct organization
and/or development of cortico-thalamic-striatal circuits associated with
motor planning, sequential tasks, and procedural learning (for a review,
see Marcus and Fisher 2003; Vargha-Khadem et al. 2005; Fisher and Scharff
2009). The recent elucidation of (part of) the regulatory network in which
the gene is presumably integrated and the identification of several dozens
of its physiological targets have jointly confirmed the relevant role played
by this gene in modulating brain development (Spiteri et al. 2007; Vernes
et al. 2007; Konopka et al. 2009), as well as the hypothesis that the mutation
of some of its targets could give rise to different (in clinical terms) disorders
affecting (partially or fully) linguistic competence. It seems to be the case
with CNTNAP2 regarding SLI and autism (Vernes et al. 2008). This gene
encodes a neurexin presumably involved in the stabilization of the loca-
tion of certain K+
channels (Poliak et al. 1999), and plausibly also in the
regulation of synaptogenesis (Dean et al. 2003).
A point mutation or a deletion of FOXP2 give rise to different deficits,
which are simultaneously of motor and linguistic nature: (i) a decreased
level of lexical knowledge; (ii) a reduced capacity for morphological and
morphosyntactic comprehension; (iii) diverse problems concerning mor-
phology during production; (iv) a deficit in the capacity of the verbal com-
ponent of the working memory for properly storing phonologically relevant
information, or even for sequentially articulating elements with phonologi-
cal value; (v) a decreased capacity (in qualitative and quantitative terms) for
retrieving elements from the lexicon; and (vi) a developmental orofacial
dyspraxia, or even a spastic dysarthria, which would be accompanied by
residual errors during development (Gopnik 1990b; Vargha-Khadem et al.
1995; Watkins et al. 2002; Vargha-Khadem et al. 2005; Shriberg et al. 2006). It
has been suggested that the nuclear deficit of the disorder associated with
the mutation of the gene would be an impairment of the capacity for event
sequencing or for procedural learning, which would concurrently affect the
planning and the execution of oromotor and cognitive (both general and
specifically linguistic) tasks (Watkins et al. 2002). This would be in conso-
nance with the localization of the primary pathology in the caudate
nucleus, one of the neural structures which make up the basal ganglia,
Genetics of language 385
which seem to play a key role (in certain models of linguistic processing) in
the computation of the sequential tasks involved in phonation and syntax
(Ullman 2001a; Lieberman 2002).
In the mouse the knockout of the Foxp2, but also the presence of substitu-
tions identical to the ones detected in affected human subjects, gives rise to
structural anomalies which are basically circumscribed to the cerebellum,
and which seem to be a consequence of an alteration of the normal pattern
of migration and/or maturation of cerebellar neurons (Shu et al. 2005),
though the degree of affectation seems also to be variable (French et al.
2007; Fujita et al. 2008; Groszer et al. 2008). Concerning specifically the
physiological anomalies that have arisen, the most conspicuous of these
concern an increase of the long-term potentiation (LTP) in Purkinje cells and
a decrease of the long-term depression (LTD) in certain neurons of the
striatum (Groszer et al. 2008), and hence, a concomitant reduction of the
long-term plasticity related to learning tasks in which basal ganglia play a
relevant role (Yin et al. 2006). Significantly, mice who carry the human (non-
mutated) sequence exhibit physiological effects substantially opposed to
what has been previously described, at least in the case of the latter cerebral
structure: the human variant gives rise to (i) a decrease of dopamine levels (it
is worth mentioning that a reduction of dopamine levels in the striatum has
been specifically correlated with an increase in the speed and accuracy of
phonological [but not syntactic] processing [Tettamanti et al. 2005]), (ii) an
increase of the dendrite length of medium spiny neurons of the striatum,
and (iii) an increase of LTP in this region, consequently favoring the synaptic
plasticity and plausibly potentiating (some of the) diverse processes
involved in motor learning (Enard et al. 2009). Finally, and concerning the
phenotypic consequences of Foxp2 mutation (but significantly, also the
presence of the human mutated variant), it has been suggested that the
most conspicuous feature would be a decrease in the frequency of the
ultrasonic vocalizations in the pups (Shu et al. 2005). Although this abnor-
mal trait would probably match one of the core deficits in SLI, namely, a
deficit in the capacity for discriminating brief, or very close, auditory stimuli
(and plausibly certain sound frequencies) (McArthur and Bishop 2001), it
could also be secondary to the developmental delay caused by the mutation
of the gene (Fisher and Scharff 2009).
On the other hand, FoxP2 knockdown in zebra finch, which mainly affects
neurons of the X-area of the song circuit (a region homologous to the
basal ganglia), significantly shortens the critical period for song learning
(giving rise to a praecox “crystallization” of songs) and reduces the accu-
racy of the imitative processes involved in song learning, concomitantly
increasing its variability from an executive point of view (Haesler et al.
2007). This phenotypic effect is plausibly in accord with the reduced
capacity for repeating words and pseudowords, but also sentences,
which is characteristic of affected people carrying a mutation in
FOXP2 (Watkins et al. 2002). It has been suggested that the anomalous
386 A N T O N I O B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O
phenotype linked in birds to the knockdown of the gene would be specifi-
cally caused by a deficit in adjusting the sound sequence performed by the
bird to the pattern memorized during the learning phase. From a neuro-
physiological perspective, this deficit would be rooted in a defective inte-
gration of glutamatergic and dopaminergic afferences in the spiny
neurons of the X-area (Haesler et al. 2007). Correlatively, it has been
found that FoxP2 expression in different songbirds is higher during the
phase in which song is remodelled (Haesler et al. 2004). On the whole, it
seems quite plausible that, if FOXP2 has played a prominent role in the
origin of language (as it seems), this role would be linked to quite an extent
not only to mechanisms involved in the regulation of the development
(and the structural and functional patterning) of certain brain regions, but
also to the modulation of neural plasticity related to the learning of motor
tasks (Fisher and Scharff 2009; White 2010).
In any case, and given that (i) the nuclear pathology in the variant of SLI
linked to the mutation of FOXP2 seems to correspond to a “sensorimotor
impairment” (Watkins et al. 2002; Shriberg et al. 2006), and (ii) this circum-
stance would confront the clinical criteria which delimit what can be
regarded as SLI (these criteria will certainly exclude subjects exhibiting
any type of non-linguistic symptoms or deficits), and since (iii) FOXP2
sequence seems to be normal in most people affected by SLI, the elucida-
tion of the molecular foundations of other (i.e. “canonical”) variants of SLI
has received increased attention in the last few years. Contrary to the
variant linked to the mutation of FOXP2, these variants seem to be
explained as a result of the accumulative effect of diverse (mutated)
genes of lesser importance, but not of the prominent effect caused by a
small group of main genes (Bishop 2001a). To date, several QTLs linked or
associated to SLI have been described (Bartlett et al. 2002; SLI Consortium
2002; Fisher et al. 2003; SLI Consortium 2004). One of these plausibly
corresponds to one of the putative risk factors for SLI, namely, ATP13A4
gene, which encodes a cation-transporting P5-type ATPase (Kwasnicka-
Crawford et al. 2005). Another two promising candidates for SLI are CMIP,
which seems to modulate neural migration and/or the assembly of synap-
tic complexes, and ATP2C2, which also encodes a cation transporter; both
CMIP and ATP2C2 have been associated with the phonological component
of the working memory (Newbury et al. 2010).
20.3.2 Dyslexia
Dyslexia can be clinically defined as a learning disability which impairs the
precise and/or fluid recognition of written words, and which gives rise to a
significant reduction in the capacity for word decoding and spelling (Lyon
et al. 2003). Though the appearance of dyslexia is conditioned by
environmental factors, it is also true that this condition exhibits a high
heritability (Francks et al. 2002), as is also the case for the different
Genetics of language 387
capacities which are at the bottom of reading competence (phonological
processing, spelling, or orthographic processing) (DeFries et al. 1987;
Stevenson et al. 1987; Gayan et al. 1994). Linkage and association studies
have led to the identification of nine loci related to this disorder (DYX1 to
DYX9) (Williams and O’Donovan 2006; Gibson and Gruen 2008).
Nevertheless, there seem to be many additional loci which confer suscept-
ibility to dyslexia and which would correspond, consequently, to genes
which can be regarded as a risk factor for reading disability (Smith 2007).
From three of these loci (DYX1, DYX2 and DYX5) a total of four different
genes have been identified and cloned that have been regarded as tradi-
tional candidate genes for dyslexia. With the exception of ROBO1, which
corresponds to locus DYX5, the remaining genes encode proteins which are
involved in the regulation of the radial migration of cortical neurons. This
is specifically the case with (i) DYX1C1, which corresponds to locus DYX1
and which encodes a regulatory factor that is presumably integrated in a
multiprotein complex (Taipale et al. 2003); (ii) DCDC2, which corresponds
to locus DYX2 and which encodes a protein with two functional domains
which interact with microtubules; the protein could consequently be
involved in the regulation of the correct positioning of neurons onto the
different cortical layers (Meng et al. 2005); and (iii) KIAA0319, which also
corresponds to locus DYX2 (the gene is located very close to DCDC2) and
which encodes a membrane protein which seems to function in vivo as a
dimer; the protein would plausibly promote or facilitate the anchoring of
neurons to the fibers of the radial glia during neuronal migration
(Paracchini et al. 2006; Velayos-Baeza et al. 2008) (though both DCDC2 and
KIAA0319 refer to the same locus, it has been suggested that both genes
could affect different components of dyslexia and also that their func-
tional products would physiologically interact at some level [Harold et al.
2006; Ludwig et al. 2008]).
The improvement and the analysis of animal models of dyslexia have
made plausible the hypothesis that a causal link could exist between the
mutation of the former genes and the structural and functional anomalies
described in the brains of dyslexic subjects. These anomalies would be a
consequence of the disruption of the normal pattern of neural migration
and interconnection, which would in turn originate the processing deficits
which are characteristic of (and which give rise to) the disorder (primarily a
dysfunction of the phonological component of the verbal working mem-
ory). Accordingly, in rats and mice an induced decrease of mRNA levels (a
process known as RNAi, from RNA interference) of the orthologous genes not
only gives rise to structural changes which are similar to those observed in
dyslexic people (Paracchini et al. 2006; Rosen et al. 2007; Burbridge et al.
2008), but also to auditory and cognitive deficits which significantly resem-
ble those detected in this group (Galaburda et al. 2006; Threlkeld et al.
2007). Additional evidence which seems to corroborate the aforemen-
tioned hypothesis is the fact that subjects who are affected by other
388 A N T O N I O B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O
pathologies caused as well by an abnormal pattern of neural migration
also exhibit a reduced reading competence: periventricular heterotopia
would be a prominent example (Fox et al. 1998; Chang et al. 2005).
As far as the ROBO1 is concerned, it seems to encode a protein which
seems to be involved in the regulation of axonal growth, particularly of
those axons which cross from one brain hemisphere to the other (Hannula-
Jouppi et al. 2005; McGrath et al. 2006), and possibly of nerve fibers which
project outside the cerebral cortex or constitute the so-called thalamo-
cortical projections, as has been attested in mice (Bagri et al. 2002).
Only quite recently candidate genes for loci DYX3 and DYX8 have been
proposed. The locus DYX3 could correspond to MRPL19, which encodes one of
the protein components of mitochondrial ribosomes, or perhaps to C2ORF3,
which encodes a protein of unknown function (Anthoni et al. 2007).
Concerning the locus DYX8, it contains a gene called KIAA0319L, which is
homologous to KIAA0319 and whose mutation has been related to certain
endophenotypes of dyslexia in certain individuals (Couto et al. 2008). On the
other hand, the analysis of different chromosome rearrangements has
made feasible the identification of other candidate genes for this condition,
or at least genes which can be regarded as risk factors for the disorder in
certain subjects or certain populations. One of the most promising is DIP2A
(Poelmans et al. 2009), which seems necessary for a proper development of
cognitive processes which depend on hippocampal activity, as is the case
with learning and memory (Collingridge and Isaac 2003) and which are
impaired in dyslexics (Swanson et al. 2006). This gene encodes a protein
which plays a key role in the regulation of synaptic plasticity (Yu et al. 2001;
Collingridge and Isaac 2003), probably acting as a positional cue that deter-
mines the direction of growth of certain kinds of axons and consequently,
the interconnection pattern displayed by certain groups of neurons
(Mukhopadhyay et al. 2002).
20.3.3 Speech-sound disorder (SSD)
SSD usually manifests in the form of errors concerning the generation of
speech-sounds, caused by impairments of a diverse nature, which compro-
mise speech articulation, phonological processing, and/or linguistic pro-
cessing, (Shriberg et al. 1999).
SSD is a highly heritable trait (Stein et al. 2004). One of the loci related to
the disorder is 3p12-q13 (Nopola-Hemmi et al. 2001), which is preferen-
tially linked to the endophenotype of phonological memory (Stein et al.
2004). This locus corresponds to ROBO1, which is also related to dyslexia
(Hannula-Jouppi et al. 2005; McGrath et al. 2006; and above). On the other
hand, the existence of a noteworthy linkage has been documented as well
between SSD and 15q14, concerning particularly three specific endophe-
notypes of the condition: phonological memory, articulatory capacity, and
oromotor function. This locus seems also to be subject to imprinting (Stein
Genetics of language 389
et al. 2006). The relevance of this linkage is increased by the circumstance
that 15q11–13 region has additionally been associated with autism (locus
AUTS4) (Shao et al. 2003), and is also duplicated in 1–3% of autistic people
(Cook et al. 1997; Schroer et al. 1998; Filipek et al. 2003). Interestingly, in
autistics this duplication has been specifically associated to (i) a deficit in
phonological conscience, (ii) an impairment in the capacity for reading
single words, (iii) different articulatory problems, (iv) a generalized lan-
guage impairment, and (v) a dyspraxia (Boyar et al. 2001). On the other
hand, the deletion of this chromosomal region also gives rise to two other
different developmental disorders, even though they share with SSD some
of its typical articulatory and/or linguistic deficits and are also subject to
imprinting: (i) Angelman syndrome, which usually appears when the
deleted fragment is of maternal origin (Kishino et al. 1997) and which is
characterized, among other symptoms, by the absence of language,
though some affected subjects are able to learn and to emit a few isolated
words (Alvares and Downing 1998); and (ii) Prader–Willi syndrome, which
is caused by the deletion of the paternal fragment (Magenis et al. 1990;
Robinson et al. 1991), and whose distinctive symptoms include diverse
articulatory and oromotor impairments of variable severity (Cassidy et al.
1997), which usually go along with a decline of communicative and read-
ing competences (Butler et al. 2004).
20.3.4 Other speciﬁc language impairments
Other cognitive disorders in which only linguistic competence seems to be
impaired have been described and characterized up to now, although their
prevalence is considerably inferior compared to the ones previously
discussed:
20.3.4.1 Landau–Kleffner syndrome
This syndrome is clinically described as a type of acquired aphasia, in
which a regression of receptive and/or expressive linguistic abilities is
the most outstanding symptom. The regression is not due to neurological
anomalies, an impairment of hearing, or a reduction of cognitive capaci-
ties (Ansink et al. 1989). Though this disorder is highly heritable, at present
no gene has been related to it.
20.3.4.2 Rolandic (or Sylvian) epilepsy and speech dyspraxia
Scheffer et al. (1995) were the first to describe this disorder, which is
characterized, among other symptoms, by an oromotor apraxia which
compromises the correct organization and coordination of movements
needed for articulation, although dysarthria is not a common symptom.
People affected by the disorder also exhibit mild difficulties for under-
standing certain linguistic structures, while a cognitive retardation is
almost never detected. Moreover, Scheffer et al. (1995) have suggested
390 A N T O N I O B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O
that this type of epilepsy could correspond to a mild variant of the Landau–
Kleffner syndrome, in such a way that these two disorders would represent
the ends of a clinical spectrum also comprising the so-called continuous
spike-and-wave discharges during slow-sleep syndrome (CSWS) (Roll et al.
2006). In some individuals affected by the disorder the SRPX2 appears to be
mutated. This gene encodes a protein with three “sushi” motifs and a HYR
motif. The SRPX2 protein could be involved in the regulation of the peri-
natal and postnatal maturation of certain circuits of the cerebral cortex
(including those responsible for the control of speech) (Roll et al. 2006). A
mutation in the SRPX2 gene seems also to give rise to a variant of a different
disorder, namely, bilateral perisylvian polymicrogiria, a condition charac-
terized by the occurrence of a disproportionate number of small gyri in the
perysilvian cortex and by an abnormal distribution of the cortical layers of
this region, whose number becomes reduced to just four (Kuzniecky et al.
1993); in this case, dysarthria (or even the absence of spoken language)
seems to be a prominent symptom, but also is a mild mental retardation
(Kuzniecky et al. 1993). Significantly, SRPX2 is a physiological target of
FOXP2 (Roll et al. 2010).
20.3.4.3 Chromosome 22q13 deletion syndrome
The most noteworthy symptom in this syndrome is a severe delay in
language development, which can totally fail to appear, while the inci-
dence of other cognitive impairments is much less evident (Prasad et al.
2000). In one of the subjects affected by the disorder, Bonaglia et al. (2001)
found a reciprocal and balanced translocation between chromosomes 12
and 22, which interrupted the sequence of one of the introns of the gene
FLJ10659 (DIP13β), but also one of the exons of PSAP2 (SHANK3), a gene
localized in 22q13.3. DIP13α is a protein akin to the one encoded by
DIP13β and seems to regulate the activity of DCC, which is implicated
in cellular apoptosis (Liu et al. 2002); hence the suggested possibility of
protein DIP13β to be involved in one of the diverse signal transduction
pathways which regulate the cellular cycle. On the other hand, SHANK3
encodes a structural protein which is mainly localized in the post-synaptic
neurons implied in excitatory synapses (Wilson et al. 2003); the protein
seems to play a key role in the arrangement of the so-called post-synaptic
density (PSD) (Banker et al. 1974), which is regarded to be crucial for a
proper structural and functional organization of the cellular apparatus
involved in the reception of neurotransmitters in the post-synaptic neuron
(Ziff 1997) and, hence, for the induction of neural plasticity, and in turn
for the functionality of cognitive processes in animals (Grant et al.
2005; Pocklington et al. 2006). The recent identification and characteri-
zation of new chromosome rearrangements in which SHANK3 gene is
involved (Durand et al. 2007) has confirmed the correctness of the
proposed correlation between the dysfunction of the gene and the emer-
gence of language impairments; in these new probands, linguistic
Genetics of language 391
disorders co-occur with autistic spectrum disorders (Durand et al. 2007),
though it cannot be totally discarded that the mutation of an additional
gene also (and perhaps notably) contributes to disturb the normal develop-
ment/acquisition of competence (Wilson et al. 2008).
20.4 (In)speciﬁcity of speciﬁc language impairments
20.4.1 How speciﬁc are actual speciﬁc language impairments?
The exhaustive analyses of this kind of disorder at different levels of bio-
logical complexity (phenotypic/clinical, cognitive, neuroanatomical, neu-
rophysiological, and genetic) have given rise to an increasing body of
evidence which suggests that they cannot be (strictly) specific at all those
levels:
(a) from a clinical perspective, language impairments and disorders are
characterized by a heterogeneous nature; moreover, the different cat-
egories they represent do not seem to properly apprehend the sympto-
matic variability which the affected individuals usually exhibit. This
circumstance has led to postulation of the existence of different sub-
types of each disorder, which are in turn characterized by a more
marked dysfunction of one (or some) of the different capacities
involved in language processing. In the case of SLI, for instance, there
are several subtypes which are ultimately grouped in three different
fundamental categories: (i) phonological, (ii) expressive (iii) expressive-
receptive (Rapin and Allen 1983; American Psychiatric Association
1994). Nevertheless, what seems particularly noteworthy here is the
fact that in many cases the results obtained by the affected subjects in
the diverse psycholinguistic tests conventionally used for the diagnosis
of the disorder are actually interpretable in terms of the occurrence of
different specific language impairments, but also of diverse disorders
in which language and other cognitive abilities seem to be simultane-
ously impaired, consequently suggesting a comorbidity among several
of these conditions. So, for instance, dyslexia is frequently comorbid
with SLI and SSD (Smith et al. 1996; Shriberg et al. 1999; Stein et al. 2004),
but also with the attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
(Purvis and Tannock 1997; Shaywitz 1998). Conversely, SLI seems to
be comorbid not only with dyslexia, but also with SSD (Shriberg et al.
1999) and autism (Norbury 1995; Tager-Flusberg 2006). This comorbidity
plausibly extends to several disorders which onset in childhood and
which impact learning and acquisition of specific competencies (read-
ing, language, writing, attention) (Angold et al. 1999). Besides, it deserves
to be mentioned that in most clinical cases up to now documented in
which there is a dysfunction of linguistic competence, this dysfunction
affects quite general aspects of language, but not necessarily and
392 A N T O N I O B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O
exclusively any of the linguistic functions or grammatical entities
which are nuclear for the different theoretical models of language
developed by linguists (Newmeyer 1997; Poeppel and Embick 2005).
(b) at the cognitive level, it has consequently been suggested that in these
disorders other (cognitive) abilities besides linguistic competence could
be simultaneously impaired, or alternatively, that they could be caused
by a broader (cognitive) impairment (Nobre and Plunkett 1997). The first
possibility would imply that the typological heterogeneity which usu-
ally characterizes specific language impairments and disorders would
be due to the fact that the clinical entities they represent should be
more properly described in terms of conglomerates of different dys-
functions simultaneously characterized by a common symptomatic
profile. Each of these dysfunctions would be caused, in turn, by a
dissimilar underlying deficit, in such a way that each of these deficits
would increase the probability of suffering from a disorder which can
be clinically categorized as a specific language impairment. So, for
instance, although the core deficit in dyslexia seems to correspond to
a dysfunction of the phonological processing capacity, the condition
could also arise as a consequence (or by the contribution) of non-
specifically linguistic deficits, such as a cerebellar dysfunction
(Nicolson and Fawcett 2006), a deficit in the capacity for visual process-
ing (Lovegrove et al. 1980), a dysfunction of the magnocellular pathway
(which is involved in the activation and redirection of attentive mech-
anisms in the upper cortical regions) (Livingstone et al. 1991; Stein and
Walsh 1997), and/or a deficit in the capacity for processing (and discrim-
inating among) sensorial impulses of acoustic (linguistic or non-
linguistic) nature which quickly follow one another (Temple et al.
2000). According to the second possibility, language impairments
would actually be particular subtypes of a broader (cognitive) disorder,
i.e. different clinical manifestations of a broader (cognitive) deficit, in
such a way that there would be other subtypes or manifestations of the
disorder that would correspond to the conditions we usually describe
as comorbid disorders. This could be the case, for instance, with
the dysfunction of the phonological memory, which seems to give rise
to (or significantly contribute to the appearance of) SLI (Bishop 2002),
dyslexia (Shaywitz et al. 1998), and SSD (Shriberg et al. 1999). The char-
acterization at this level of the variant of SLI linked to the mutation of
the FOXP2 constitutes another noteworthy example. It was initially
suggested that individuals affected by this mutation showed evidence
of solely linguistic deficits, mainly of expressive nature, which would be
essentially restricted to an incapacity to properly apply certain morpho-
logical rules, both derivative and inflectional (Gopnik and Crago 1991).
Nevertheless, it has also been claimed that (i) linguistic deficits in these
subjects (which would not actually be circumscribed to the morphosyn-
tactic level, but would also affect the phonological one) would co-occur
Genetics of language 393
with an orofacial dyspraxia (Vargha-Khadem et al. 1995) and overall,
with diverse oromotor impairments (Watkins et al. 2002; Fisher et al.
2003); alternatively, that (ii) oromotor and linguistic impairments
would co-occur with another (and plausibly broader) cognitive deficit
of some kind, as far as the procedural IQ values obtained by the affected
individuals are slightly below the values exhibited by the non-affected
members of their own family (Vargha-Khadem et al. 1995; Fisher et al.
2003); or instead, that (iii) affected subjects would really manifest a
general deficit in the capacity for event sequencing or for procedural
learning, which would concurrently affect both oromotor and cognitive
(linguistic or non-linguistic) tasks (Watkins et al. 2002a).
(c) at the neuroanatomical and neurophysiological levels, disorders of
this kind usually entail the occurrence of structural and functional
anomalies of different types in diverse brain areas. Nevertheless, the
affected regions can hardly be regarded as exclusively devoted to
linguistic processing, even in the improbable case that these putative
“language areas” could be precisely delimited (in the sense of univo-
cally correlating particular brain regions to particular linguistic func-
tions or grammatical components, as they are characterized by
Linguistics), since their nature and extension differ (to some extent)
(i) according to the nature of the computational tasks to be made;
(ii) from one individual to another when confronting the same tasks,
but moreover in view of the fact that their precise localization also
differs (to some extent) (a) during ontogeny, (b) when learning an L2;
(iii) in response to brain lesions of variable extent and localization;
(iv) according the subject’s (clinical) profile and history, and in gen-
eral, (v) according to the linguistic environment in which the individ-
ual has grown up (Bates et al. 1992; Dehaene et al. 1997; Thomas et al.
1997; Müller et al. 1999; Deacon 2000b). Conversely, it is frequently
also the case that the impairment of such regions gives rise in other
subjects to different deficits and/or different (including non-linguistic)
disorders. For instance, there is a noteworthy corpus of evidence
which suggests that basal ganglia are involved in the processing of
all kinds of sequential actions, both of motor and cognitive nature
(and hence, not only of those related to phonation and syntax), in
order to allow the performance of routine tasks, but also their modi-
fication in response to environmental changes which demand an
alteration of such processes (Marsden and Obeso 1994; Monchi et al.
2001), as is conveyed by the fact that they are specifically involved in
reward-based associative learning, with the particularity that their
response is constructed upon memory and learning (Graybiel 1995).
In addition, their dysfunction can be regarded as a main aetiological
factor for the appearance of other non-exclusively linguistic condi-
tions, such as Huntington’s disease (Gusella and MacDonald 2006),
parkinsonism (Duffy 2005), 3-α-methylglutaconic aciduria (Gibson
394 A N T O N I O B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O
et al. 1998), glutaric acidemia I (Merinero et al. 1995), or progressive
supranuclear palsy (Short et al. 2002; Kertesz 2003; Goldman et al.
2005). Dyslexia once again represents a particularly illustrative exam-
ple. At the neurological level this condition is characterized by a
underactivation of the two processing subsystems of the dispositive
for reading ability which are located in the posterior regions of the left
hemisphere. One of them is specifically placed in the ventral portion
of the occipito-temporal region and is integrated by different areas of
the temporal-medial and occipital-medial gyri (Horwitz et al. 1998;
Shaywitz et al. 1998; Paulesu et al. 2001). Nevertheless, this region is
also involved in the visual recognition of faces and its dysfunction
gives rise as well to a different disorder (in clinical terms) which is
known as prosopagnosia (Sorger et al. 2007; Dricot et al. 2008).
(d) at the genetic level, the genes identified up to now which can be
considered as causal (or risk) factors for the appearance of these specific
language impairments and disorders cannot either be labeled as exclu-
sively linguistic, since (i) they are expressed in other brain regions
besides those involved in language processing (yet again if it was the
case that these regions can properly be delimited [see above]), and even
in other body tissues, but also in view of the fact that (ii) their mutation
can give rise to more than one different impairment, which can be or
not specifically linguistic from a clinical point of view. FOXP2, for
instance, is expressed during embryonic development in the lung, the
intestine, and the heart besides the brain (Shu et al. 2001), while it is also
expressed in different adult tissues (Lai et al. 2001). The case of ROBO1 is
quite similar, as it is expressed not only in the brain, but also in the lung,
the skeletal muscle, the heart, and the pancreas (Sundaresan et al. 1998),
while it is mutation has been associated both with dyslexia (Hannula-
Jouppi et al. 2005) and SSD (Nopola-Hemmi et al. 2001). A final and
illustrative example would be the region 11p15.5, which encompasses
the DRD4 gene, which encodes the dopamine D4 receptor; although this
gene corresponds to one of the loci for dyslexia (DYX7) (Hsiung et al.
2004), it is also a candidate gene for ADHD (Eisenberg et al. 2000;
McCracken et al. 2000; Roman et al. 2001; Schmidt et al. 2001).
Consequently, it seems that many data allow us to put into question the
specifically linguistic nature of specific language impairments, in the sense
that they cannot always and univocally be correlated with (i) deficits which
can be characterized as strictly linguistic, (ii) structural alterations and/or
dysfunctions of particular brain regions (exclusively dedicated, in principle,
to the processing of linguistic stimuli), or (iii) the mutation of certain genes
(that, in principle also, would exclusively affect the development and func-
tioning of such regions). What we actually observe is that (i) these disorders
usually entail other (cognitive) dysfunctions besides specifically linguistic
impairments and/or (ii) they seem to arise as a result of a broader cognitive
Genetics of language 395
dysfunction; (iii) at the clinical level there seems to exist a (certain) comor-
bidity among different language (and cognitive) disorders; (iv) these disor-
ders are symptomatically/phenotypically heterogeneous; (v) the same
disorder can be caused by (or its emergence can be influenced by) several
different underlying deficits; (vi) the same underlying deficit can give rise to
diverse linguistic (and cognitive) impairments; (vii) brain regions which
seem to be structurally or functionally disturbed in affected people are
also involved in computational tasks not directly related to language pro-
cessing; (viii) the identity and extension of such areas are variable (as it is
also in the normal population); (ix) genes which are mutated in individuals
who exhibit this kind of impairments and disorders (and which can plau-
sibly be regarded as causal or risk factor for their emergence) are also
expressed in other brain regions besides those which present structural
and/functional anomalies in affected individuals (and/or in brain regions
not related to language processing in healthy people), and/or (x) genes
cloned from people affected by specific language impairments are also
mutated in other cognitive (i.e. non-specifically linguistic) disorders.
20.4.2 To what extent are we dealing with methodological caveats?
To a certain extent, the aforementioned difficulties for achieving a precise
characterization of (specific) language impairments and a distinctive sep-
aration (at all biological levels previously discussed) between them and
other language impairments – both specific or linked to a broad cognitive
dysfunction – are of a methodological nature.
20.4.2.1 Shortcomings concerning the clinical characterization
of the disorders
Occasionally tests routinely employed for the diagnosis of individuals who
are presumably affected by a specific language impairment actually
demand the intervention of other cognitive abilities besides linguistic
competence (in fact, it has been suggested that an experimental differ-
entiation between competence and performance might be impossible, due
to the obliged implication of other cognitive systems [perhaps not yet
characterized] in passing from the former to the latter [Newmeyer 1997]).
This can in turn lead us to wrongly conclude that the nature of the disorder
is cognitive (in a broad sense) or that the condition is comorbid with other
language impairments (and/or other cognitive disorders), since this con-
clusion would lack biological validity. Similarly, there are usually different
tests for the diagnosis of the same disorder; the possibility that such tests
are based on dissimilar criteria can lead again to the wrong conclusion that
(i) there exist several subtypes of the disorder; (ii) the disorder is caused by
two (or more) underlying deficits, and/or (iii) the disorder is comorbid with
other language impairments (and/or other cognitive disorders). Thus,
Bishop et al. (1995) have suggested, for instance, that the phonological,
396 A N T O N I O B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O
expressive, and expressive-receptive subtypes of SLI would probably not
correspond to different conditions.
20.4.2.2 Shortcomings concerning the categorization of the disorders
The analysis of the performance of individuals affected by different spe-
cific language impairments (but also of the performance of the healthy
population) frequently implies the homogenization of the results obtained
by these affected individuals in the different psychometric tests and the
subsequent establishment of the different groups which represent the
clinical categories conventionally used in the diagnosis (in a basic sense,
subjects will be classified in two categories: affected and non-affected).
Although both the homogenization and the adscription processes follow
properly normalized statistical procedures, the possibility cannot be dis-
carded that (i) the boundaries which separate such groups (and particu-
larly, the limit which divides the affected phenotype from the phenotype
regarded as normal) lack any biological entity and/or significance; or (ii) a
variability which possesses a real biological basis is rejected and, as a
result, (iii) the neurobiological (and hence, genetic) nature of the disorder
gets simplified, as a consequence of being treated as a category with a
bimodal distribution (normal/anomalous), but not as a dimensional cate-
gory. The case of dyslexia is again revealed as particularly illustrative in
this sense (cf. Shaywitz et al. 2008).
20.4.2.3 Shortcomings concerning the analysis of the neural substrate
The way in which individuals are characterized (and categorized) in clinical
(i.e. linguistic) terms on the basis of the tests customarily employed for
evaluating performance (once again: these tests can be diverse and/or inad-
equately designed) necessarily determines (and limits) the actual relevance
of the subsequent neuroanatomical analyses, because such studies primar-
ily consist in establishing correlations between the observed lesions
or anomalies, and the linguistic deficits previously detected (which will
be, in principle, distinctive of the disorder). Moreover, these tests are also
frequently the basis for diverse sorts of neurofunctional analyses.
Consequently, if their solving demands the intervention of other cognitive
capacities besides linguistic competence, the detected neural activity will be
a summation of different computation processes of dissimilar nature. This
circumstance would lead us to wrongly conclude that the brain areas impli-
cated in language processing are multifunctional and/or that certain struc-
tures are involved when this is not actually the case.
At this level a relevant problem, also linked to the former, is always the
particular way in which we correlate the structural anomalies shown by
the different neuroimaging techniques (but especially the visual represen-
tations corresponding to the computational tasks specifically demanded
by the experimental tests used in functional studies) with the diverse
linguistic (dys)functions or (dys)functional components of language.
Genetics of language 397
At the same time it is also not clear how such functions (which we tend to
interpret as homogeneous entities and to isolate from other functions of
dissimilar nature) arise from the coordination of multiple computational
processes which occur at the neural level within a system which we cannot
emphatically state is discrete in functional terms (Kosik 2003). If we rigor-
ously consider what we know at present about these topics, we will be
compelled to conclude that a definition, in functional terms alone, of the
brain areas so identified represents an evident simplification of the state of
the art, particularly if we take into account what these areas actually do
in vivo (Kosik 2003). Broca’s area constitutes an especially illustrative exam-
ple (mainly in light of the latter discussion), since not only during the
nineteenth century, but even in some quite recent neurolinguistic models
(cf. Geschwind 1970), it has been consistently regarded as the “area for
syntax.” On the contrary, however, this area (i) seems to play a more
restricted role during language processing, which would be limited to (a)
the processing of phonetic features with phonological value during recep-
tion (Blumstein 1998; Martin et al. 1999) and generation of words
(Desmond and Fiez 1998; Uylings et al. 1999; Kaan and Stowe 2002), being
one of the constituents of the phonological component of the verbal work-
ing memory; but also to (b) the application of the so-called transforma-
tional rules during sentence comprehension, as well as the computation of
certain aspects of the elaboration of the syntactic hierarchy during sen-
tence production (Grodzinsky 2000); and (ii) it would also play a relevant
role in non-linguistic tasks, mainly in motor tasks essentially related to the
perception of others’ actions (Schubotz and Fiebach 2006; Fadiga et al.
2009). This topic will be examined in a broader context in Section 20.6.1.
Finally, it is worth keeping in mind the fact that the resolution of most
non-invasive neuroimaging techniques conventionally used for this type
of structural and functional analyses never extends beyond 0.1 mm, even
in the most highly resolved examples (Koizumi 2004). This circumstance
can lead again to a wrong endorsement of a multifunctional nature to a
particular brain area, while it would in fact be the case that there is some
kind of histological dissociation among different (but very closely located)
neural populations which process different types of specific stimuli.
20.4.2.4 Shortcomings concerning the analysis of the
genetic (and molecular) analysis
At the genetic level, all the shortcomings previously discussed concerning
(i) the nature and the (proper) design of the psychometric test routinely
employed for the diagnosis and the evaluation of the affected subjects, and
(ii) the way in which the disorders are usually categorized (and subcatego-
rized) are again highly relevant. One main reason for this is that the
identification of loci linked or associated to the diverse conditions (and
ultimately, of genes which can be regarded as candidate or risk factors
in their emergence) normally start from individuals assigned to such
398 A N T O N I O B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O
categories (or subcategories) in virtue of this kind of test. Linkage or
association analyses will establish statistically significant correlations
between certain chromosomal fragments and certain phenotypes inde-
pendently of how (and how precisely) such phenotypes are defined, cate-
gorized, and delimited. An imprecise definition, categorization, or
delimitation of one particular disorder (in the sense previously discussed)
would give rise to results that could be interpreted as indicative of the
involvement of the same gene in the emergence of more than one different
impairment, while this common aetiology can disappear when linkage or
association studies start off from more biological aspects or components of
brain functioning, like those represented by the endophenotypes. To this
shortcoming should be added the caveats associated with the conventional
tools for the genetic (and molecular) analysis of language disorders which
were referred to in Section 20.2.3. As a general rule, and concerning the
emergence of a dysfunctional phenotype, these tools are still not able to
satisfactorily discriminate the effects exerted on the trait by (i) the epige-
netic, ontogenetic, and environmental factors also involved, nor by (ii) the
complex interaction that characteristically takes place among the diverse
genetic factors implicated, both functional and afunctional/dysfunctional.
Accordingly, the genuine molecular nature of the disorder can become
simplified, sometimes contributing to establish causal links between cer-
tain genes and certain language disorders that possibly would not be real,
nor surely, of a universal validity.
20.4.3 To what extent are we dealing with the genuine
biological nature of language?
Putting aside the relevant consequences due to the significant methodo-
logical/technical shortcomings previously discussed, the genetic (but also
the neurobiological, cognitive, and linguistic) analysis of the specific lan-
guage impairments seems to suggest that the difficulties which arise when
trying to discriminate among these disorders at all these levels of bio-
logical complexity, but also to distinctively separate them from other
cognitive disorders, can actually be caused by the genuine structure and
organization of cognition, but above all by the true nature of the neural
substrate of language and the genuine way in which genetic factors
(among other molecular factors) contribute to the regulation of its devel-
opment, as will be discussed in detail in Section 20.5.4.
In fact, the controversy around the specificity or the inspecificity (at all
those levels of biological complexity) of this kind of inherited language
disorder is basically related to the controversy that also exists around the
completeness or incompleteness of the dissociations between cognition
and language (but even among the different functional components of
language) that hypothetically could be detected and described in certain
individuals affected by acquired language impairments. It is also clear that
Genetics of language 399
such controversies ultimately point to the diverse hypotheses which have
been proposed concerning the biological nature of both cognition and
language, and particularly, the anatomical and functional organization
of the brain.
The hypothesis that a (full) dissociation between linguistic competence
and the remaining cognitive capacities – or even among the diverse pro-
cessing capacities which would be responsible for the different grammat-
ical functions and entities related to language, as they are defined and
characterized by Linguistics – is feasible (and experimentally discernible
and discriminable) and that it is also a consequence of the dysfunction of a
particular brain area or the mutation of a particular gene, actually
responds to a concrete conception of the nature of cognition and of the
way in which the brain is organized, i.e. the model which is usually
referred to as strict modularism. According to this view, modules are
encapsulated and autonomous computational devices, innately specified,
which exhibit a domain specificity and which evolved independently to
satisfy particular functions (cf. Fodor 1983; Coltheart 1999) (certainly, at
first only peripheral devices were portrayed in this way [see Fodor 1983],
but soon after diverse [if not all] higher cognitive capacities were also
judged to be modular in that precise sense [see Pinker 1994; Spelke 1998;
Sperber 2001, among many others]).
Nevertheless, the idea that the diverse (specific) language impairments
arise as the result of the interaction between a defective cognitive capacity
(linguistic competence) and the remaining, but intact, cognitive abilities
would not take into account either (i) the dynamic followed by the develop-
ment of the brain during ontogeny (Karmiloff-Smith 1998) or, consequently,
(ii) the effect exerted by the experience on the structure and the functioning
of the FL, or (iii) the genuine biological nature of the latter. Although this
topic will be discussed in a more detailed way in Sections 20.5.2 and 20.6.1,
we can already put forward, taking into account all we have argued up to
this point, that (i) the neural substrate of the FL does not seem to be
integrated by neural structures exclusively devoted to language processing
(“language areas”), and (ii) nor are those genes which seem to play a relevant
role in the regulation of the development of such substrate exclusively
devoted to this role (“language genes”). As was the case with brain struc-
tures, to define genes in strictly functional terms seems to be insufficient to
properly apprehend what they actually do in vivo (Section 20.5.3).
In conclusion, in most cases the real scenario can be described basically
as follows:
(i) the dysfunction of a particular gene related to language (i.e. one which
is mutated in some individuals clinically characterized as affected by a
particular [specific] language disorder) gives rise to different structural
and functional anomalies in several brain areas, anomalies which in
turn originate one or more deficits, which will cause different
400 A N T O N I O B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O
symptoms that are susceptible of being clinically categorized as dis-
similar conditions; sometimes these conditions will be heterogeneous
and sometimes they will be comorbid, and they will be exclusively
linguistic, exclusively cognitive, or simultaneously linguistic and cog-
nitive in nature;
(ii) the dysfunction of a particular brain area related to language (i.e. one
which presents structural and/or functional anomalies in some of the
individuals clinically characterized as affected by a particular [specific]
language disorder) gives rise to one or more deficits which can cause
different symptoms that are susceptible of being clinically categorized
as dissimilar conditions; once again, sometimes these conditions will
be heterogeneous and sometimes they will be comorbid, and once
again, they will be exclusively linguistic, exclusively cognitive, or else
they will be simultaneously linguistic and cognitive in nature.
20.4.4 (Relevant) Implications for a genetic analysis of language
In practical terms, the former discussion has two particularly relevant
implications for a genetic analysis of language:
(i) it seems to legitimate (and also to demand) the analysis of general
cognitive (i.e. non-specifically linguistic) disorders if genes involved
in the regulation of the development and functioning of the neural
devices implicated in language processing are to be identified and
characterized. The number of such conditions largely exceeds the
quantity of specific language impairments, since a dysfunction of
linguistic competence is an occurring (or distinctive) feature in disor-
ders such as autism, Norman-Roberts syndrome, Angelman syndrome,
Prader-Willi syndrome, Asperger syndrome, Smith-Fineman-Myers syn-
drome, certain variants of X-linked alfa-thalassemia, fragile X mental
retardation syndrome, Rett syndrome, X-linked West syndrome, MASA
syndrome, nonsyndromic X-linked mental retardation, cortical
dysplasia-focal epilepsy syndrome, familial hemiplegic migraine
(type 2), benign neonatal epilepsy, Cohen syndrome, Alzheimer’s
disease, neural ceroid lipofuscinosis, dementia with Lewy bodies,
progressive supranuclear palsy, hereditary dysphasic disinhibition
dementia, frontotemporal dementia, Pick disease, pallidopontonigral
degeneration, primary progressive aphasia, corticobasal degenera-
tion, anomic aphasia, progressive nonfluent aphasia, different types
of spinocerebellar ataxia (2 and 5), Machado–Joseph disease, heredi-
tary spastic paraplegia (type 4), Mowat–Wilson syndrome, Sotos syn-
drome, Beckwith–Wiedemann syndrome, 22q11.2 fragment deletion
syndrome, Potocki–Lupski syndrome, Smith–Magenis syndrome,
Floating-Harbour syndrome, and schizophrenia, as well as diverse
metabolic disorders, such as Walker–Warburg syndrome,
Genetics of language 401
galactosemia, Salla disease, Amish infantile epilepsy syndrome,
Krabbe disease, Smith–Lemli–Opitz syndrome, sulfocysteinuria, α-
methylglutaconic aciduria (type I), Canavan disease, phenylketonu-
ria, mucolipidosis (type IV), Schindler disease (types I, II, and III),
Hurler syndrome, Scheie syndrome, mucopolysaccharidosis (type
IIIA), β-mannosidosis, leukoencephaly, metachromatic leukodystro-
phy, glutaric acidemia (type I), Leigh syndrome, or the alteration of
thyroid hormone, carnitine, ornithine or glycine metabolisms (for a
review see Benı́tez-Burraco 2009: 88–94, 168–172, and 177–227).
(ii) it seems to corroborate (and also to vindicate) the convenience of
starting off the genetic analysis of language from the endopheno-
types. Given that their nature is exactly cognitive, neuroanatomical,
neurophysiological, endocrine, or biochemical (see section 20.2.3),
they allow for a more biological analysis (but also a more biological
characterization) of the way in which brain functions, in comparison
with the utilization of the clinical categories which represent the
diverse language impairments and disorders (Gottesman and Gould
2003; Gould and Gottesman 2006).
20.5 Genes and language
20.5.1 Structural and functional characterization of genes
related to language
It is evident that when also considering those cognitive disorders which
are not/cannot be regarded as specifically linguistic, but simultaneously
impair linguistic competence (Section 20.4.4), the number of genes related
to language that have to date been identified and cloned substantially
increases (for a list intended to be exhaustive and which encompasses,
in particular, all the genes mentioned below, see Benı́tez-Burraco, 2009:
177–227). Although these genes are notably heterogeneous, they can still
be classified, in a first approach and attending to the biochemical nature
and function of the products they encode, in the following categories:
* enzymes involved in basic brain metabolic reactions: ALDH5A1,
ATP10A, COMT, PRODH, UBE3A, and ZDHHC8.
* membrane transporters (or proteins associated to them): APOE, ATP1A2,
ATP13A4, CACNA1A, CACNA1C, CNTNAP2, KCNQ2, KCNQ3, SLC25A12,
SLC6A4, and SPTBN2.
* structural proteins of the cell or enzymes involved in basic cellular
metabolic reactions (including, significantly, those specifically impli-
cated in the regulation of the functioning of the cellular cytoskeleton):
CLN2 (TPP1), CLN3, CLN5, CLN6, COH1, CTSD, CYLN2, FLNA, GLO1, HD (HTT),
LIS1 (PAFAH1B1), MAPT, PSAP2 (SHANK3), RFC2, SCT, SGCE, SPG4, and STXA1.
402 A N T O N I O B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O
* proteins implicated in cell-to-cell interactions (including, significantly,
those specifically involved in the regulation of adhesion and recogni-
tion between neurons): JPH3, KIAA0319, L1CAM, NLGN3, NLGN4 (NLGN4X),
PSEN1, PSEN2, and SRPX2.
* extracellular signaling proteins: RELN and WNT2.
* membrane receptors: CHRNE, DRD4, GABRB3, GRIK2, HTR2A, MET,
NOTCH3, NTNG1, NTRK2, RAY1 (ST7) , and ROBO1.
* proteins integrated in signal transduction pathways (excluding mem-
brane receptors): AVPR1A, CALN1, cAMP-GEFII (RAPGF4), CDKL5, DMPK,
FLJ10659 (DIPI3β), HRAS, LIMK1, LRRK2, MAB21L1, MTR1, NBEA, PRNP,
PTEN, and STIM1.
* regulators of gene expression (including transcriptional factors, trans-
lational regulators, proteins which interact with the DNA and ncRNAs):
APP, ARX, ATRX, BAZ1B, DCDC2, DISC2, DYX1C1, EN2, FMR1, FOXP2, GTF2I,
MADH6 (SMAD9), MECP2, NF41, NSD1, OTX2, PSEN1, PSEN2, RAI1, SCA8,
TCAG_4133353, WSCR1, and ZFHX1B.
On the other hand, these genes can also be classified, in an alternative
approach and attending to the physiological process in which their prod-
ucts are involved at the brain level, in the following categories:
* regulators of brain metabolism. This class would encompass all genes
whose products are implicated in (i) the homeostasis or the modulation
of the physiological activity of certain neurotransmitters (ALDH5A1,
CHRNE, COMT, DRD4, GABRB3, GRIK, HTR2A, PRODH, SLC6A4, SPTBN2,
ZDHHC8) or (ii) certain hormones (AVPR1A, NSD1), or which (iii) exert a
direct effect on brain function (SCT), or (iv) are involved in the transport
of certain substances inside the brain (APOE).
* regulators of basic cellular processes. This second class would encom-
pass all genes whose products are involved in (i) cellular interaction
and/or adhesion (KIAA0319, MTR1, PSEN1, PSEN2, SGCE, STIM1), (ii) the
transport of certain products (SLC25A12), (iii) the regulation of inwards
and outwards cell vesicle trafficking (COH1, CYLN2, HD, RAY1 [ST7]), (iv)
the regulation of organelle morphology and location (HD [HTT]), (v)
general transcriptional activity (GTF2I), (vi) general translational activ-
ity (WSCR1), (vii) mRNA processing (HD [HTT]), (viii) the interaction
among diverse intracellular membrane structures (JPH3), (ix) the cell
cycle regulation (ATRX, PSEN1, PSEN2), (x) DNA replication and repar-
ation (RFC2), or (xi) the stabilization and remodeling of the cellular
cytoskeleton (LIMK1, MAPT, SPG4), and consequently in (xii) the regu-
lation of the cell size and shape (DMPK) and (xiii) cell movement (FLNA).
* regulators of neuron specific cellular processes. This third class would
include all genes whose products are implicated in (i) the establishment
of the ionic gradients related to neural function (ATP13A4, CACNA1A,
CACNA1C) or to (ii) the generation of action potentials involved in
Genetics of language 403
nerve impulse transmission (ATP1A2, CNTNAP2, KCNQ2, KCNQ3), but also
those concerned with the regulation of (iii) vesicle trafficking out of the
Golgi apparatus (NBEA), (iv) the functioning of certain neural subcellular
organelles (CLN2 [TPP1], CLN3, CLN5, CLN6) or (v) the different steps
encompassed by the synapses (CLN1, PSAP2 [SHANK3], SNCA, SNCB),
including (vi) cell adhesion processes during synaptogenesis (NLGN3,
NLGN4 [NLGN4X]), and (vii) the release of the synaptic vesicles in the
presynaptic terminal (STXA1).
* regulators of neural proliferation and migration. This fourth class
would encompass all genes whose products are involved in the regu-
lation of (i) neural proliferation and (ii) the differentiation of neural
precursors into mature cells (PRNP), but also those implicated in the
regulation of (iii) neural migration, either promoting it (ARX, DYX1C1,
DCDC2, LIS1 [PAFAH1B1], ZFHX1B), or inhibiting it (RELN), and/or (iv) the
organization of cellular architecture (PTEN and possibly also RAI1).
* regulators of synaptogenesis and axonogenesis. This fifth class would
include all those genes whose products are implicated in the regulation
of (i) the directionality of axon growth (NTNG1, ROBO1) or (ii) dendrite
proliferation and arborization during development (L1CAM and prob-
ably also STXA1, CALN1, CYLN2 and/or LIMK1).
* regulators of neural identity and/or functionality. This sixth class would
encompass all genes whose products are involved in the regulation of
(i) the brain basic patterning and regionalization (OTX2), (ii) neural differ-
entiation (EN2, FOXP2, HRAS, MAB21L1), (iii) the determination of cellular
fate (NOTCH3¸ WNT2), and particularly (iv) (embryonic, perinatal, and
postnatal) maturation of certain cerebral circuits (MET, SRPX2).
* regulators of basic brain processes. This final class would encompass
all genes whose products are implicated in the regulation of phenom-
ena such as (i) memory (NTRK2), (ii) LTP (NTRK2, UBE3A), (iii) neural
plasticity, and/or (iv) the critical periods for synaptic development in
response to experience (FMR1, LIMK1, MECP2).
* It is also worth considering the relevant role played by those genes
which encode ncRNAs. These genes seem to be involved in the regu-
lation of the expression of other genes, although the precise biological
functions they contribute to have not been yet elucidated. This would
be the case with DISC2, SCA8, and TCAG_4133353 among others.
On the whole, a high percentage of genes related to language play an
eminently modulatory role, as their products belong to pathways involved
in signal transduction towards the cell, or else they function as regulators of
the expression of other genes. Concerning the physiological functions in
which these products are implicated, and leaving aside the aforementioned
fact that they are diverse, a noteworthy number of these genes are related to
the regulation of neural proliferation and migration, synaptogesis, and
axonogenesis, and the establishment of neural identity and functionality.
404 A N T O N I O B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O
20.5.2 Genetic (but not exclusively) regulation of the
development of the neural substrate of language
Genes related to language represent one among diverse biological factors
(belonging to different levels of complexity) involved in the regulation of
the development and functioning of the neural substrate of language
(besides the genetic factors themselves, consideration should also be
given to those previously mentioned in Section 20.1, namely, epigenetic
factors, factors related to maternal inheritance and other systems of
innate information storing, ontogenetic factors, and environmental fac-
tors). If it is accurate to speak (in a loose sense) of the existence of a
developmental program, and particularly of a genetic developmental
program (though see Longa [2008] for a critical reappraisal of the concept
“genetic program”), it would be convenient and necessary to distinguish
between at least two different, but closely related, subprograms. The first
one would respond to a considerable extent to a complex genetic regu-
latory mechanism and would be more important during the first stages of
ontogeny, determining the basic histological organization and confor-
mation of the main anatomic macrostructures which constitute the
neural substrate of language. This subprogram would be integrated by
all the genes previously mentioned (and plausibly by many others not yet
discovered and characterized), which could be grouped, as in Ramus
(2006), into three fundamental categories: (i) genes directly related to
brain developmental processes; (ii) genes responsible for determining
neural identity; and (iii) genes responsible for establishing the spatial-
temporal expression pattern of genes belonging to the former two cate-
gories. Even so, and because of the genuine relationships between genes
and language (Section 20.5.3), the actual contribution of each of these
genes to the final phenotype will, in general, be limited, difficult of
prediction, and substantially conditioned to the effects exerted by the
remaining involved genes (and also to effects due to the molecular,
ontogenetic, and environmental contexts). According to the consequen-
ces caused by their mutation, and basically following Winterer and
Goldman (2003), some of these genes could be regarded as principal (i.e.
their mutation would constitute a main causal factor in the emergence of
a particular disorder), while others should be considered as secondary or
modulatory (i.e. their mutation would just represent a risk factor in the
appearance of the condition).
Nevertheless, the “instructions” of this first subprogram would deter-
mine in such a loose way the interconnection patterns among the neu-
rons which make up the different components of the neural substrate of
the FL that it is scarcely probable that a fully operative computational
system would actually arise at the term of development (Ramus 2006).
Hence the existence (and the importance) of a second subprogram (again
in a loose way of the expression), which would be more relevant during
Genetics of language 405
the subsequent stages of brain ontogeny, and of a more local scope. This
subprogram would be responsible for the precise determination of the
definitive cytoarchitecture of such a neural substrate and, in sum, for the
generation of fully operative devices. Unlike the first subprogram, this
second one would be an eminently physiological subprogram, given that
it would encompass all the structural and functional changes which
occur in neurons as the result of the functional interactions which take
place among different brain regions, but also between them and the
environment. These changes would ultimately occur as a consequence
of the effect exerted by synaptic activity on the developing cells, due to
diverse physiological mechanisms such as the synthesis and capturing of
different growth and chemotactic factors, or the stabilization and desta-
bilization of certain synapses, although many genes must eventually be
involved, as is suggested by the analysis of the synaptic proteome (Grant
2003) or of the neural plasticity (Kaufmann and Worley 1999).
20.5.3 The (genuine) relationships between genes and language
The real contribution of the genetic component to the regulation of the
development (and functioning) of the neural substrate of the FL can be
summarized in the following crucial points (for a more detailed discussion,
see Benı́tez-Burraco 2009: 355–364):
(i) the role played by genes does not consist in determining language
per se, but just in synthesizing a particular biochemical product,
which will contribute to a certain physiological function;
(ii) ordinarily, a particular gene will play different roles in diverse
moments and places during ontogeny (pleiotropy);
(iii) many genes will contribute (each to a different extent) to the develop-
ment and functioning of the neural substrate of the FL (polygenism);
(iv) the relevance of the particular roles played by each of the involved
genes is clearly surpassed by the effect due to the precise balance
kept, in a particular moment and place, by the different biochemical
products these genes encode (these products are typically arranged
in gradients or specific combinations of signaling molecules);
(v) gene activity (and the activity of the products encoded by them) will
necessarily and decisively be conditioned by the molecular and the
ontogenetic contexts, but also by the (linguistic) environment in
which development takes place;
(vi) genes are closely related to (and their expression will be compul-
sorily modulated by) all the elements and factors belonging to the
remaining levels of biological complexity that characterize the FL
(molecules, organelles, cells, tissues, circuits, and brain areas, struc-
tures and macrostructures);
406 A N T O N I O B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O
(vii) linguistic performance and the context in which communication
takes place will modulate the response of the whole system, and
consequently the expression of genes themselves; and
(viii) the final phenotype (functional, afunctional, or dysfunctional) will
always arise, in sum, as the result of a non-lineal interaction among
the diverse (genetic, epigenetic, ontogenetic, maternal, environ-
mental) factors involved.
If we seriously consider the former points (and in fact, all we have dis-
cussed up to now), it is evident that we still cannot regard genes either as a
primary cause, or as the final point of a biological analysis of language. On
the contrary, they just represent one more among the diverse levels of
biological complexity of the FL, with the particularity (previously men-
tioned) that each of these levels regulates (and is regulated by) the activity
of the remaining ones. As Oyama (2000: 40) has correctly pointed out,
“a gene initiates a sequence of events only if one chooses to begin analysis
at that point.”
20.5.4 The (genuine) relationships between genes
and language impairments
The genuine relationships which exist between genes and language also
allow us to explain many of the most noteworthy (but also apparently
paradoxical) conclusions derived from the analysis of the genotype–
phenotype correlations established to date in people affected by different
(specific) language impairments and disorders, which can be summarized
as follows:
(i) most genes related to language have been identified in individuals
who not only exhibited a (partially or totally) impaired competence,
but in whom other cognitive functions were also disturbed;
(ii) genes that were initially cloned from individuals who only exhibited
an impaired competence (but not other cognitive incapacities) are
also expressed in brain structures or areas not apparently involved
in language processing, and even in different tissues outside the
nervous system;
(iii) in some of the individuals affected by a particular language disorder
the sequence of the genes conventionally regarded as candidate (or
risk) factors for its emergence is normal (phenocopy);
(iv) some of the individuals who are endowed with an anomalous var-
iant of a particular candidate gene (or of a gene regarded as a risk
factor for the emergence of a particular disorder) are not impaired at
all (null penetrance) or are just mildly impaired (reduced penetrance);
(v) in many cases the same gene has been linked or associated with
different language (and/or cognitive) impairments or disorders;
Genetics of language 407
(vi) for each language disorder the existence of diverse candidate genes
and multiple genes that can be considered as risk factors for its
emergence seems plausible;
(vii) the identity of such genes differs (to a certain extent) from one
population to another and/or depending on the subtype of the
disorder.
This complex outcome can be substantially explained if we assume that:
(i) in a pleiotropic context the mutation of a particular gene can affect
the normal development (and functioning) of two (or more) different
brain areas, giving rise to diverse structural and functional anomalies
which will in turn originate two (or more) diverse deficits; these
deficits will subsequently give rise to different symptoms, susceptible
of being clinically categorized as two (or more) dissimilar disorders
(sometimes heterogeneous, sometimes comorbid).
(ii) in a polygenic context it frequently occurs that:
(a) the mutation of two (or more) functionally related genes (i.e.
genes belonging to the same developmental program) can give
rise to basically similar structural and functional anomalies in the
same brain area(s), and consequently to an equal deficit and ulti-
mately to similar symptoms susceptible of being clinically cate-
gorized as a unique (and the same) language disorder;
(b) in other cases, the mutation of two (or more) functionally related
genes can give rise to diverse structural and functional anomalies
in two (or more) brain areas, which will originate two (or more)
different deficits; these deficits will in turn give rise to diverse
symptoms, susceptible of being clinically categorized as two (or
more) dissimilar disorders (sometimes heterogeneous, sometimes
comorbid);
(c) the contribution of each dysfunctional or afunctional product to
the anomalous phenotype will always be conditioned by the effect
exerted by the remaining (and numerous) genes involved in the
regulation of the development of a particular brain area; given
that this contribution will be necessarily small and scarcely pre-
dictable, the mutation of the same gene can give rise to diverse
deficits in different individuals and, hence, to dissimilar symp-
toms, susceptible of being clinically categorized as two (or more)
different disorders (sometimes heterogeneous, sometimes
comorbid);
(d) the contribution of each dysfunctional or afunctional product to
the anomalous phenotype will also be conditioned to the effect
exerted by the molecular and ontogenetic contexts, by the
remaining levels of biological complexity of the FL, and by the
linguistic stimuli received during growth; as this contribution will
again be subtle and by no means easy to predict, the mutation of
408 A N T O N I O B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O
the same gene can give rise, once more, to diverse deficits in
different individuals and hence, to dissimilar symptoms, suscep-
tible of being clinically categorized as two (or more) different
disorders (sometimes heterogeneous, sometimes comorbid).
20.6 Conclusions
20.6.1 Genes and language
From the genetic (and neurobiological) analysis of the inherited language
disorders (but also from the elucidation of the evolutionary itinerary of
some of the genes thus far related to the development of the FL; see
Chapter 25 in this volume) the following leading conclusions arise:
(i) to understand language in genetic terms fundamentally means pre-
cisely to dissect the particular architecture of the genetic (but not
solely genetic) program (in the loose sense of the term) which contrib-
utes to regulate the development (and to some extent, the functioning)
of certain neural devices in order to allow them to compute the tasks
involved in language processing; hence, this endeavor cannot prop-
erly be equated to the finding of genes exclusively related to linguistic
competence (though maybe there are some);
(ii) most of these genes belong to our evolutionary lineage; the general
architecture of the program they constitute also has a prolonged
evolutionary history;
(iii) to understand language in neural terms fundamentally means to
dissect precisely the particular way in which certain neural devices
are interconnected in order to allow them to compute the tasks
involved in language processing; hence, this endeavor cannot prop-
erly be equated to the finding of portions of brain tissue exclusively
related to linguistic competence (though it cannot be discarded that
maybe there are some such tissues);
(iv) most of these structures belong to our evolutionary lineage; the
general architecture of the program which connects them also has
a prolonged evolutionary history;
Consequently, a foremost conclusion, which could seem paradoxical at first
glance, is the following: the circumstance that both the particular instruc-
tions (= genes) which contribute to regulate the development of the neural
substrate of the FL and the particular pieces (= brain circuits/areas) which
make up such substrate are substantially shared with other cognitive
capacities is nevertheless entirely compatible with the uniqueness and the
idiosyncrasy of the program itself (= set of genes) and of the neural substrate
itself (= set of interconnected circuits/areas) related to the FL, and therefore
entirely compatible with the functional autonomy and specificity which
also characterize the FL from a cognitive perspective. Moreover, this is also
Genetics of language 409
fully compatible with the multiple evidence which suggests that the brain is
substantially structured at the anatomical level, but particularly so at the
functional level, as is shown by (i) the persistence and repeatability of
certain neuroanatomical features (Felleman and Van Essen 1991), (ii) the
typical discrepancy which exists between the ontogeny of linguistic com-
petence and the developmental itineraries of the remaining cognitive
capacities during growth (Crain 1991), or (iii) the existence of substantially
similar patterns of brain activation in response to similar tasks related to
language processing (for a review see Benı́tez-Burraco 2005). As Marcus
(2006) has pertinently pointed out, although two cognitive modules can be
functionally distinct (and in fact, they have to be if they are to be considered
modules), they need not be completely independent in genetic, neurobio-
logical, or evolutionary terms (and in fact, they never are). And even though
the genetic (and in general, the neurobiological) data do not yet allow us to
opt in an absolutely unequivocal way for a particular model of language
(and cognition) organization and acquisition, it seems clear that the data we
have at present favor the less rigorist of both the functionalist and the
modularist proposals and, conceivably, the one rooted in the Chomskyan
Minimalist Program, as will be discussed in Section 20.6.2.
Otherwise, a neurobiological characterization of language like the lat-
ter, which leaves aside an excessively rigorist conception of the nature of
the different modules which constitute human cognition, would match
(and simultaneously explain to a large extent) (i) the difficulties mentioned
in Section 20.4 for achieving an effective separation between the diverse
afunctional or dysfunctional phenotypes of the competence and those
corresponding to other cognitive capacities; and (ii) the characteristic
discrepancy which can also be adverted during development between
the ontogenetic itineraries followed by linguistic competence and the
remaining cognitive abilities in people affected by language disorders, a
discrepancy that in many cases the correcting therapy is unable to fully
revert, as paradigmatically exemplifies the case of dyslexia (Shaywitz et al.
1995; Shaywitz and Shaywitz 2005).
20.6.2 Genes and minimalism
Language depiction derived from the Chomskyan Minimalist Program
(Chomsky 1995b; Hauser et al. 2002) pretty satisfactorily fits the character-
ization of the FL emerging from the genetic analysis of linguistic compe-
tence (and in general, the [neuro]biological nature of the FL), as it has been
outlined in the present contribution. This is true on the one hand, because it
is still licit to understand the biological idiosyncrasy of the FL, as it was
summarized in Section 20.6.1., in terms of domain specificity, which would
reside now, as discussed, in the particular way in which the diverse compo-
nents related to it interact at the different levels of biological complexity,
and particularly, in the precise architecture of the genetic program (once
410 A N T O N I O B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O
again, in the loose sense of the term) involved in the regulation of the
development of its neural substrate and also in the particular interconnec-
tion pattern which gives (structural and functional) cohesion to that sub-
strate. And it is true on the other hand because it is surely a conception of
the FL which also fits more accurately than others (even the preminimalist
Chomskyan conception) the recent findings concerning the way in which
evolutionary and developmental processes take place in living beings (with
regard to which the FL should not represent any exception, notwithstanding
its significant idiosyncrasy at the phenotypic level).
AccordingtoLorenzo(2001: 140) wewouldbedealing in particular with an
“internalist functionalism,” in view of the fact that the features of the FL
would nowfundamentally depend on(and also be a consequence ofan evolu-
tionary perspective) “the settlement of the faculty [of language] in the global
architecture of the human mind” (Lorenzo 2004) or, in an equivalent formu-
lation, on“theadjustment ofmultiple tensions in occasionof theintegration
of previously autonomous faculties into a system which puts them all in
reciprocal communication and confers on them new and more complex
functions” (Lorenzo 2004). The hypothesis that the FL represents an interface
between a conceptual system responsible for thought and the sensorimotor
systems involved in its externalization and internalization, with the particu-
larity that the coupling between such systems (usually known as “external”)
would be mandatory during development whenever growth takes place
in the presence of a threshold amount of linguistic stimuli (Hauser et al.
2002), seems particularly relevant in the context of any genetic analysis of
language.Amainreasonforthisisthat,asLorenzoandLonga(2003)correctly
point out, it implies a very noteworthy reduction of the genetic charge
necessary for the ontogenetic (but crucially, also for the phylogenetic) devel-
opmentoftheFL(andconcomitantly, apertinentreformulationoftheinnate
nature of the latter). Different reasons seem to justify this:
(i) a significant part of the genetic information needed for the constitu-
tion of the linguistic functional system would now correspond to the
genetic information needed for the development and functioning of
the “external” systems. This would in turn imply that a considerable
percentage of the genes related to language, as they have been
characterized in the present piece of work, and also a significant
fraction of the genetic component of the developmental program
related to the FL, as it was outlined in Section 20.5.2, would not be
now directly related to the FLN, though their alteration would neces-
sarily affect the language ability per se, i.e. the FLB;
(ii) the development and the functioning of the FL would now depend to
a certain extent on the general laws which regulate the organization
of biological systems (also known as “the third factor”), which are
independent from the environment and from the genome (Chomsky
2001: 1–2; 2005); and
Genetics of language 411
(iii) a considerable amount of the genetic information needed for the
development of the FL would now be epigenetic, i.e. it would be
biologically determined by the features of the ontogenetic environ-
ment in which development takes place (Vercelli 2009).
20.6.3 Concluding remarks: future perspectives
The feasibility of fractioning language into different biological levels and
components seemed especially pertinent (and useful) in our challenge for
establishing in a more accurate way its structure, nature, and evolutionary
origin. Even though genetic/molecular data are still scarce, it nevertheless
seems reasonable to venture that a leading hypothesis that will guide future
research about these topics will be that the modification of the sequences of
a few regulatory genes (and/or their transcriptional profiles) would have
allowed to achieve in a brief time span (in evolutionary terms) a noteworthy
remodeling of certain neural circuits (or their exaptation) and their being
devoted (surely not in an exclusive way) to the processing and computation
of symbolic elements, whose result would have been transformed in both
externalizable and internalizable structures by motor and perceptive sys-
tems previously evolved. The final adjustment of these circuits would
depend, thanks to the very organization dynamics of the nervous system,
on the external stimuli to which the individual is exposed, but also on the
developmental context represented by the remaining nervous structures
they necessarily interact with. The outcome is an FL (or a “language organ,”
or a linguistic module) which could be regarded as (i) substantially innate (in
the extended sense of the term which implies considering innate any kind
of information not derivable from experience) and (ii) only partially genet-
ically encoded (hence, and bearing in mind the biological characterization
of innateness followed in this work, the epigenetic and maternal informa-
tion, as well as the information derived from/generated by the developmen-
tal process itself, should also be considered as innate), with the additional
concern that (iii) the genetic information, in particular, implicated in its
development (in ontogenetic, but also in phylogenetic terms) which could
be regarded as novel (i.e. specifically linguistic) would be notably lesser than
the information a priori expected, considering the significant lack of
continuity which can be adverted at the phenotypic level between human
language and the communication devices of the other animal species: the
reason is that such information would largely consist in the information
also involved in the regulation of the development of the physiological
substrate of the remaining systems/capacities that also integrate the
FL(B) – as would be the case, in particular, with those related to thought
and the transmission/reception of linguistic signals – these systems/
capacities plausibly having a much more long-lasting evolutionary history
and responding to much more complex genetic programs.
412 A N T O N I O B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O
Part III
Language
evolution
21
The cognitive capacities
of non-human primates
Klaus Zuberbühler
21.1 Introduction
An influential way to study the evolution of human attributes is by com-
parisons with our closest primate relatives, particularly chimpanzees and
bonobos. If homologues of attributes are found in all three species, then it
is relatively safe to conclude that their common ancestor, which lived
some 6 million years ago, already possessed the attribute under investiga-
tion. The alternative (the attribute has evolved independently in the differ-
ent lines) is evolutionarily less probable. This comparative method has
been widely applied and with considerable success in understanding the
biological roots of human behaviors, including language. Since human
language has left no direct traces in the archaeological record, compara-
tive psychology has inevitably come to play a key role in the study of its
evolution both in the laboratory and the wild (Fitch 2010). The purpose of
this chapter is to review recent developments, with a particular focus on
the cognitive abilities of non-human primates, and to discuss the implica-
tions for the ongoing debate about the evolution of human language.
What is the nature of human language? According to one intellectual
tradition, language is mental activity that generates cognitive images,
constructs realities, enables future planning, and allows for relations of
symbols (Jacob 1982). A related but distinctly different view is that lan-
guage is the result of specific cognitive activity but functions primarily as a
communication device that enables social interactions with others
(Tomasello 1998). Although both positions assume a complex cognitive
architecture, only one links language intrinsically to communication.
The implications of these two positions for questions about language
Much of this chapter is based on ﬁeldwork funded by a Leverhulme Trust’s Research Leadership Award, the European
Commission’s FP6 framework and the BBSRC. I am particularly grateful to the Royal Zoological Society of Scotland for their
long-term support of the Budongo Conservation Field Station.
evolution are considerable. If language did not primarily evolve for com-
munication, but for abstract thought, then investigations into the biolog-
ical roots of language do not need to be concerned with communication in
other species. If, however, language is a direct descendant of earlier forms
of non-linguistic communication, then primate communication becomes
directly relevant. This is not so much because current forms of primate
communication are “missing links” of earlier human communication, but
because they reveal something about how the common ancestor might
have communicated and which aspects of human language are derived
and which are more ancestral traits.
The purpose of this chapter is to shed light on the biological basis of
mental activity involved in language, by reviewing recent evidence of non-
human primate cognition and communication in their natural habitats.
21.2 The evolution of cognition
Compared to other groups of mammals, primates have unusually large
brains relative to their body size (Jerison 1973). This has often been taken
to suggest that primates may be able to carry out complex cognitive
operations. Intelligent behavior has been seen in a wide variety of species,
including many non-primates, but primates may be special in that they
reveal behavioral flexibility over a wide range of contexts. Cleaner fish, for
example, show highly complex social interactions when dealing with each
other and their clients, but this may be a specialist ability that has evolved
exclusively to boost foraging success (Bshary 2002).
One explanation why primates have such large brains is that this is the
evolutionary product of living under conditions of high social complexity,
the “social intelligence hypothesis” (Humphrey 1976). Primates tend to live
in relatively large groups where membership is individually defined and
changes in group composition are restricted to migration of individuals of
specific age/sex categories. The typical pattern is that males are expelled from
their native groups once they reach adulthood. Female migration is generally
less common, although observed in some species, including chimpanzees
and humans. The main argument of the social intelligence hypothesis is that,
due to social complexity, natural selection has favored individuals who are
able to better cope with the social problems generated by group living,
provided that socially successful individuals perform better in terms of
surviving, mating, reproducing and ensuring their own offspring’s survival.
Any cognitive ability or motivation that enhances an individual’s skills
towards this end will then be favored by natural selection. Intelligence, in
other words, may be the product of an arms’ race in social skills.
Although the social intelligence hypothesis enjoys wide support there
are a number of challenges, many of which have not been properly
addressed. Strictly taken, the hypothesis predicts a direct relation between
416 K L A U S Z U B E R B Ü H L E R
group size, social complexity, and social intelligence. However, many
species live in small and socially simple groups with one adult male and
a few females; large groups with several adult males and females are the
exception across primate species (Smuts et al. 1987). Nevertheless, primate
species living in small groups do not consistently have smaller brains than
expected. Another problem for the social intelligence hypothesis is that it
has difficulties in explaining how primates came to evolve such large
brains in the first place. Primates are not the only group of mammals
that live in individualized social groups, suggesting that natural selection
should have favored enhanced encephalization in other social animals as
well. Possessing a powerful brain is likely to be advantageous for individ-
uals of any species, so why were primates the chosen ones?
Brain tissue is metabolically expensive to maintain, requiring its owner
to provide and secure a constant flow of energy (Armstrong 1983). The
evolution of encephalization may thus be constrained by the level at
which the required energy can be produced over a lifetime. Since relative
brain size is related to basic metabolic rate across species, it has been
suggested that larger brains are a reflection of being able to secure high
basal energy (Isler and van Schaik 2006). Habitats with large fluctuations in
food supply may thus limit how much energy can be devoted to brain
tissue, suggesting that primate habitats may have played a key role in
brain evolution. Primates tend to specialize on high-energy foods, such
as ripe fruits, and species with a higher proportion of fruit in their diet
tend to have larger brains than others, regardless of group size (Barton
et al. 1995). Relative brain enlargements are typically in the visual system,
suggesting that encephalization is a direct response to foraging special-
izations. Primates may have been more successful than other groups of
animals in monopolizing habitats with relatively high and reliable food
production compared to other groups of animals. Reliable access to high-
quality food combined with living in complex societies appears to lie at the
core of why humans have evolved such large brains, the organ responsible
for language.
What exactly is the primate brain capable of? Cognition is usually
defined in terms of how an organism acquires, processes, stores, and
acts on information from the environment, thus the focus is on the
mechanisms of perception, learning, memory, and decision-making
(Shettleworth 1998). Others prefer to restrict the term “cognitive” to only
declarative but not procedural mental processes (“knowing that”
vs. “knowing how”; McFarland 1991), although the two processes can be
difficult to separate empirically. Unsurprisingly, it is even more difficult to
be assertive about the kinds of cognitive processes that are pivotal for
language. Endorsed by Chomsky (2005), Jacob (1982) has suggested a list
of core cognitive activities that collectively make up “language,” cognitive
images, future planning, and relating symbols. What is the evidence that
some of these are also available to non-human primates?
The cognitive capacities of non-human primates 417
21.2.1 Future planning
Future planning has been documented in primates, both in the laboratory
and the wild. In recent experiments great apes could be brought to select,
transport, and save specific tools for a future goal, even if they were
prevented from seeing the task during the moment the selection was
made (Mulcahy and Call 2006). In the wild, chimpanzees have been
observed to transport natural hammers to nut-cracking sites over
considerable distances in ways that suggest basic planning (Boesch and
Boesch 1984). The hammers were usually large rocks necessary to crack
difficult nuts, particularly Panda oleosa. Individuals appear to remember
the location of suitable stones throughout their home range, a conclusion
reached because chimpanzees transport stones to keep the transport dis-
tance minimal. Other research in the wild has shown that monkeys are
able to plan their travel paths in a manner that suggest they maintain
relatively complex spatial maps of their home ranges, including the loca-
tion of relevant feeding trees. A typical forest monkey’s home range con-
tains as many as 100,000 trees, although only a small fraction is relevant as
food sources at any given time (Janmaat et al. 2006a). Field research has
shown that primates are more efficient in finding the relevant trees than
what random search models predict, and this has been taken to suggest
that they are able to foresee successful outcomes to some extent (Valero
and Byrne 2007). In another example, mangabeys approached fruit-
bearing trees significantly faster than trees without fruit and they encoun-
tered fruit-bearing trees significantly more often than predicted by chance
(Janmaat et al. 2006a). This is only possible if individuals can maintain and
update mental representations of the locations of relevant trees.
What strategies primates use to predict which trees are most likely to
contain fruit has also been the subject of research. Gray-cheeked mangabeys
of Kibale forest, Uganda, were seen to bypass a considerable number of fruit-
bearing fig trees in order to revisit trees in which they had successful feeding
experiences earlier (Janmaat et al. 2006a), suggesting they rely on past
memories of individual trees to make foraging decisions about where to
find food in the future. Another way to predict the presence of food is to
monitor the states of synchronously fruiting species. In one such study,
Japanese macaques were artificially provisioned with the fruits of a local
vine species. Monkeys responded, not only by inspecting more trees of the
same vine species (Akebia trifoliate) but also by inspecting trees of another
vine species (Akebia quinata) (Menzel 1991). Because both species produce
fruits simultaneously, the most reasonable explanation is that the monkeys
were able to generalize and make predictions about future events from one
very specific experience, finding a piece of ripe fruit within their home
range prior to the natural fruiting season. A third documented strategy,
pursued by primates to predict the location of food in the wild, is to monitor
meteorological cues. Temperature and solar radiation have a known impact
418 K L A U S Z U B E R B Ü H L E R
on the ripening rates of forest fruits, which has direct consequences on the
availability of ripe fruits. In free-ranging gray-cheeked mangabeys it was
found that if monkeys revisited a fruit tree, then the average temperature
(since the preceding visit) was higher than if they bypassed a fruit tree,
suggesting that they had taken average temperature (and its impact on
ripening rates) into account when deciding whether or not to revisit a tree
in search for fruits (Janmaat et al. 2006b).
21.2.2 Mental representations
Thinking is sometimes defined as the ability to go beyond what is percep-
tually available by maintaining mental representations and making infer-
ences, something that has been demonstrated by captive primates on
multiple occasions (e.g. Schmelz et al. 2011). In free-ranging Diana monkeys,
similarly, adult males produce predator-specific alarm calls that appear to
invoke mental representations of the corresponding predator class in other
individuals (Zuberbühler et al. 1999). In one demonstration, monkeys first
heard playbacks of typical predator vocalizations, for instance the shrieks of
a crowned eagle or the growls of a leopard to which they responded vigo-
rously with predator-specific alarm calls (Figure 21.1). After this initial
experience and following a period of silence, monkeys heard the same
stimulus again with the result that, this time, they no longer produced
predator-specific alarms. In a test condition, the initial predator calls were
replaced by the corresponding alarm calls of a male Diana monkey, so that
monkeys first heard eagle alarm calls followed by eagle shrieks. Again,
receivers failed to respond to eagle shrieks, despite the fact that the two
playback stimuli were acoustically very different. Their only commonality
was in terms of their presumed semantic content, i.e. the fact that both calls
referred to the presence of an (invisible) eagle. In a final control condition,
monkeys first heard the alarm calls of a male monkey, followed by the calls
of a non-corresponding predator (e.g. eagle alarm calls followed by leopard
growls). In this case, receivers responded strongly to both stimuli, presum-
ably because the stimuli referred to different predator types. It is difficult to
explain such patterns without invoking some intermediating mental repre-
sentation of the corresponding predators. The evidence also suggests that
primates comprehend some of their own vocalizations as meaningful units
in the sense that the calls appear to refer to underlying mental representa-
tions of the corresponding external events.
In humans, however, semantic knowledge cannot always be reduced to
the physical properties of an external reference, or, expressed in Chomsky’s
(2005) prose: “even the most elementary concepts of human language do not
relate to mind-independent objects by means of some reference-like relation
between symbols and identifiable physical features of the external world, as
seems to be universal in animal communication systems.”
The cognitive capacities of non-human primates 419
We sought to address this with a series of studies on tool use in free-ranging
chimpanzees (Gruber et al. 2009). The basic question was whether non-human
primates possess individually acquired conceptual entities that can be acti-
vated in context-specific ways, that is, whether they maintain mental con-
cepts that cannot be reduced to the physical properties of the external world.
We did this by studying how wild chimpanzees approached a novel foraging
problem as a function of their own cultural background. Chimpanzees are by
far the most capable tool users in the animal kingdom and they show
Legend: Striped bars refer to “Diana monkey eagle alarms”
Solid bar refers to “Diana monkey leopard alarms”
Figure 21.1 Experimental design and results to determine whether Diana monkeys are able
to process the semantic properties associated with alarm calls (Zuberbühler et al. 1999). The
top graph represents the vocal response of the Diana monkey groups to a sequence of two
eagle shrieks, separated by ﬁve minutes. The bottom left graph represents the vocal response
of Diana monkey groups to a male Diana monkey’s eagle alarm calls, followed by eagle
shrieks ﬁve minutes later. The bottom right graph represents the vocal response of Diana
monkey groups to a male Diana monkey’s leopard alarm calls, followed by eagle shrieks ﬁve
minutes later.
420 K L A U S Z U B E R B Ü H L E R
community-specific “cultural” differences in the types and methods of tool
use (McGrew 1992). To this end, we chose two communities living in different
forests in Uganda, the Kanyawara and the Sonso group. Both groups had been
studied for more than 20 years, which revealed significant differences in their
tool use behavior (Reynolds 2005). For example, Kanyawara chimpanzees use
sticksforavarietyofforagingproblems,whileSonsochimpanzeeshavenever
been observed to do so, despite decades of observations. Instead, the Sonso
chimpanzeessometimesproduceleafspongesbychewingabunchleavesinto
a soft wedge, which then serves as a sponge to extract water from tree holes.
In the experiments, we tested members of both groups with a novel
foraging task, liquid honey trapped in a small cavity in a large fallen tree.
The hole was made so that it was too small and not shallow enough for the
chimpanzees to access the trapped honey with their fingers alone (Figure 21.2
(a)). Natural honey is usually waxy, produced by honeybees that build their
hives in vertical tree trucks. We were interested in how members of the two
communities attempted to solve this perceptually novel problem, which was
identical for both groups. We found that most Sonso chimpanzees tried to
access the honey with their hands, although this did not lead to much
success. Some, however, proceeded to produce a leaf sponge, which they
then inserted into the cavity, typically with good results. At Kanyawara, the
response was very different. Here, individuals consistently manufactured
sticks from the surrounding vegetation, which they then inserted into the
cavity to retrieve the honey (Gruber et al. 2009). Based on the results of this
simple experiment, we concluded that chimpanzees do not possess mental
concepts that can be reduced to the physical properties of the external world,
but that they view the external world from their own individual perspective,
determined by their cultural background and prior learning experiences.
In a follow-up study, we provided a multi-functional tool next to the
experimental honey-filled cavity (Gruber et al. 2011; Figure 21.2(b)). The
tool consisted of a 40 cm branch of a common shrub species with its leaves
removed over half of its length. The remaining leaves could be used to
produce a leaf sponge but the tool also functioned as a stick supplier or it
could be used a brush (by inserting the leafy end to scoop out the honey).
Again, we continued to find group-specific differences. No chimpanzee
used the provided tool as a brush. Instead, a majority of individuals at
Sonso simply ignored the tool. Amongst those that grasped the tool, all
proceeded to detach the leaves from the stem, before discarding the stick
and producing a leave sponge. At Kanyawara, many individuals seized the
tool but all inserted the bare end (not the leafy end) to acquire the honey.
Some removed the remaining leaves, while others ignored the tool and
instead manufactured a stick from material in the surrounding vegetation.
We have also tried to facilitate stick use in the Sonso community, by
already inserting the tool into the honey-filled cavity. Interestingly, no
Sonso chimpanzee recognized this as a viable way of extracting honey.
Some ignored the inserted stick completely, others touched and retrieved
it, but all then discarded the tool. Hence, although the tool’s functional
The cognitive capacities of non-human primates 421
features were presented in a most salient way, no Sonso chimpanzee
discovered functional properties of this tool apart from being a supplier
of leaves for sponges, a demonstration that chimpanzees perceive their
external world, not in terms of “identifiable physical features” but as a
result of existing knowledge. This may change the salience of their envi-
ronments and constrain how they perceive and evaluate it. We concluded
that a chimpanzee’s elementary semantic elements are related to the
external world in a complex interaction of conception and action.
21.2.3 Symbolic communication
Theories of language usually rely on at least the following elements:
an inventory of lexical items, a mechanism to relate these to mental
(a)
(b)
Figure 21.2 (a): Photograph of the artiﬁcial beehive, consisting of a cavity with a narrow
opening ﬁlled with honey beneath the surface (photograph by Thibaud Gruber).
(b): Photograph of the “leafy stick,” the multi-functional tool provided to subjects to extract
honey in three different ways: as a “stick” (by inserting the bare end), “brush” (by inserting the
leafy end), or “leaf sponge,” by removing and chewing its leaves and inserting the resulting
sponge (photograph by Thibaud Gruber).
422 K L A U S Z U B E R B Ü H L E R
concepts, and rules to construct an infinite number of structures from
them. There is no evidence that any animal communication system
fulfills these requirements although some may possess relevant compo-
nents. For example, in important early work dolphins could be trained
to comprehend artificial sentences and sequences of gestures along pre-
determined semantic and syntactic rules (Herman et al. 1993), while
similar results have been obtained from language-trained apes and
an African grey parrot (Kako 1999). Although these studies have been
hugely influential, some of the implications of their findings have
been criticized, on various grounds (Terrace et al. 1981). An important
weakness with artificial communication systems is that it is usually not
clear whether they are of any importance to the animals’ natural lives
and communication needs, that is, whether there is any evolutionary
relevance.
To this end, we have investigated a number of natural communica-
tion systems of non-human primates to understand how external events
trigger signaling behavior, how they link with underlying mental rep-
resentations, and how multiple signals are used to construct more
complex structures. Concerning the third point, it has long been
known that many songbirds produce syntactically organized acoustic
structures (Catchpole and Slater 1995/2003). This behavior appears to
have evolved in response to sexual selection, an evolutionary force that
is the result of clashes in reproductive interests. Sexually selected
adaptations are usually in terms of traits that function in advertising
territory ownership, attractiveness as mating partners, or intra-sexual
competitive ability. The function and meaning of these signals, in other
words, are largely in terms of self-promotion. They do not refer to
anything external but provide an indicator of the signaler’s overall
fitness and value.
The degree to which sexual selection has acted on primate cognition and
communication is not so well understood. One relevant system has been
described in Lar gibbons (Clarke et al. 2006). Similar to songbirds, gibbons
produce songs as part of their routine daily behavior, a vocal activity that
appears to function in the advertisement of territory ownership and pair
bonding (Mitani 1992). At the same time, there have been consistent
reports that gibbons use songs in response to the presence of predators
(Uhde and Sommer 2002), a behavior that is difficult to explain with a
sexually selected function. To investigate this, we carried out a field experi-
ment by presenting different predator models to free-ranging groups of Lar
gibbons at Khao Yai National Park, Thailand, in order to elicit singing
responses. We found that, although the songs to predators and the regular
duet songs were made from the same notes, both song types were
assembled in different but context-specific ways (Figure 21.3). Results
showed that these apes utilize a finite set of acoustic units to construct
complex utterances to relate to different events, a relevant finding for
questions of how syntactic systems can evolve.
The cognitive capacities of non-human primates 423
Other potentially interesting communication systems, in terms of syn-
tactic features, have been found in forest guenons. In one species, the
putty-nosed monkey (Cercopithecus nictitans), males produce at least three
different call types, “booms,” “hacks,” and “pyows” (Eckardt and
Zuberbühler 2004). This primate species is found in forested areas of
many parts of sub-Saharan Africa. Typical groups consist of one adult
male with several adult females and their offspring, around 20 individuals.
The males produce a variety of call sequences usually in response to
external disturbances but sometimes also spontaneously, a behavior that
has been investigated at Gashaka Gumti National Park, Nigeria. “Booms”
were very rare, but “pyows” and “hacks” could be given as part of uniform
or transitional series. Sometimes, however, these series were interrupted
by “wrong” calls, e.g. a “pyow” series containing a few “hacks.” Closer
examination revealed that one particular structure, pyows followed by a
n1 n1
n2 n2
n3 n3
n4 n4
n5 n5
n6 n6
n7 n7
n8 n8
n9 n9
n10 n10
◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊
◊
◊
◊ ◊ ◊ ◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊ ◊ ◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊ ◊ ◊ ◊
◊
◊ ◊ ◊ ◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
| |
| |
|
|
| |
|
|
| |
| | | |
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
| | |
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
| | | |
| | |
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
| | | |
|
|
|
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
∼ ∼
∼
∼
∼
∼
∼ ∼
∼ ∼ ∼ ∼ ∼ ∼
∼ ∼
∼
∼
∼ ∼
∼ ∼
∼
∼
∼
∼ ∼
∼
∼
∼
∼
∼
−
−
−
−
−
−
/ /
/
/
/
/
/
/
Χ
Χ
Χ
Χ
Χ Χ
AF AF
AF
AF
AF
AF
AF
AF
AF
AF
AM
AM
AM
AM
AM
AM
AM
AM
AM
AM
AM
AM
AM
AM
AM
AM
AM
AM
AM
AM
AF
AF
AF
AF
AF
AF
AF
AF
W
C
C
C
T
T
Duet songs−Fully habituated groups
Duet songs−partially habituated groups
Group ID Group ID
Nos
Nos
D
D
Predator songs−Snake model
W
B
B
B
R
R
N
H
D
j
Predator songs−Clouded leopard model
leaning wa
hoo
waoo
wo
wa
other notes
uncodeable
◊ ◊ ◊ ◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊
∼
∼
∼
∼
∼
∼
∼
−
−
− /
/
/
/
◊ /
/
◊ /
/
/
/
/
/
/
/
/
/
/
/
/ /
/
Χ
∼ / / /
◊
Figure 21.3 Sequential analyses of the ﬁrst 10 song notes in both predatory and duet song
contexts.
424 K L A U S Z U B E R B Ü H L E R
few hacks, was particularly common and often given prior to major
group movements (Arnold and Zuberbühler 2006). This suggested that
the pyow–hack sequence functioned specifically as a kind of “imperative”
to other group members to cease current activities and follow the caller to
another part of the home range.
We tested this possibility experimentally, by playing back recordings
of leopard growls, a stimulus that reliably triggered vocal responses from
putty-nosed monkey males, typically series of “pyows.” As expected,
males sometimes also produced “pyow–hack” combinations in response
to leopards, which allowed us to investigate the relation between the
utterance and its effects on subsequent group movement. Results
revealed that, if the male called and produced at least one “pyow–hack”
combination as part of his vocal response, then the group traveled sig-
nificantly further during the subsequent observation period than if the
male called but did not produce a “pyow–hack” combination (Arnold and
Zuberbühler 2006).
In a follow-up study, we monitored the behavior of individual group
members, the presumed target of the males’ communication efforts
(Arnold and Zuberbühler 2008). We found that playbacks of the “pyow”
or “hack” series did not normally lead to enhanced traveling. Instead
subjects stayed were they were and responded with specific anti-predator
behaviors and increased vigilance, as if they had anticipated either a
crowned eagle or danger on the ground. “Pyow–hack” combinations, how-
ever, reliably triggered increased movements towards the presumed
caller, and artificially composed “pyow–hack” combinations were as effec-
tive as naturally produced ones, suggesting that receivers attended to the
overall structure, not just to the individual calls. It was also the case that
receivers only responded with increased movement if we played back the
calls of their own group male, while the calls of other males were not
effective. The “pyow–hack” combination, in other words, conveys a mes-
sage to other monkeys that is independent of the component calls whose
normal function it is to refer to specific external events, such as the
presence of specific types of predators.
We then investigated what information exactly was conveyed by the
“pyow–hack” combination (Arnold and Zuberbühler 2012). Interestingly,
the “pyow–hack” sequence can vary in the total number of calls (ranging
from two to seven). Since “pyows” and “hacks” appear to have some own
independent meanings (“hack” series refer to crowned eagles; “pyow”
series to events on the ground), we were interested in how individual
calls contributed to the overall meaning of the sequence. We could think
of two main possibilities. First, individual calls might contribute additively
with their own semantic content. Playbacks of “hack” series inhibit move-
ments in monkeys, presumably because they are reliable indicators of
eagles, a situation in which locomotion is unsafe. Playbacks of “pyows,”
on the other hand, tend to trigger some movement towards the caller,
The cognitive capacities of non-human primates 425
presumably because this utterance is referentially less specific and
requires receivers to obtain additional information from the caller.
If “pyow” and “hack” calls contribute to “pyow–hack” combinations in
such a way, then the prediction is that receivers should move less with
increasing numbers of “hacks” in a sequence but move more with increas-
ing numbers of “pyows.” The other possibility is that the monkeys per-
ceive the “pyow–hack” sequences as holistic units, whose meaning is
determined by the syntactic structure regardless of the number of
components.
We carried out a series of playbacks to test the monkeys’ responses to four
distinct sequence types, (a) one “pyow” followed by five “hacks,” (b) three
“pyows” followed by three “hacks,” (c) five “pyows” followed by “one hack,”
and (d) one “pyow” followed by one “hack.” If the meaning of the sequences
is determined by its constituent parts, then sequence (c) should trigger
significantly more movement than the other sequences. If the meaning is
determined by the syntactic structure, then the number of components
should be irrelevant. Results supported the second hypothesis, suggesting
that the “pyow–hack” combination functioned as a holistic unit, whose
meaning could not be decomposed into or explained by any of its constitu-
ent parts (Arnold and Zuberbühler 2012).
Call sequences of the kinds reported from putty-nosed monkeys are not
uncommon in forest monkeys, although very little research has been
carried out to investigate their function. One exception is the Campbell’s
monkey (Cercopithecus campbelli). Similar to putty-nosed monkeys, this pri-
mate lives in the sub-Saharan forest belt, although its range is restricted to
West African forests. Similar to putty-nosed monkeys, males produce
three basic call types, “boos,” “krak,” and “hok” (the latter two are acous-
tically analogous to the putty-nosed monkeys’ “pyow” and “hack”). In
addition, callers are able to produce interesting acoustic variation, by
means of frequency transitions and adding an acoustically invariable
suffix, which leads to a repertoire of six call types (“boom,” “hok,” “hok-
oo,” “wak-oo,” “krak,” “krak-oo”; Ouattara et al. 2009a). Semantically, we
found that suffixation was associated with a change from predator-specific
alarm calls to more generalized alert calls (Ouattara et al. 2009a).
Importantly, males almost always produced these six call types as part of
longer sequences. We could identify a large number of different sequen-
ces, according to the composition of the different call types. These differ-
ent sequences were not produced randomly but in relatively clear and
context-specific ways (Figure 21.4).
It is currently unknown whether, as receivers, Campbell’s monkeys
are able to extract meaning from the different sequences. Some pilot
work suggests that this may be the case. In one study, different
groups of Diana monkeys were played artificial Campbell’s monkey
call sequences. Both species often form mixed species groups, presum-
ably as a way to enhance mutual protection from predation, and there
426 K L A U S Z U B E R B Ü H L E R
is good empirical evidence that they understand each others’ call
sequences to crowned eagles and leopards (Zuberbühler 2000, 2001).
In the experiment, Diana monkeys heard series of Campbell’s monkeys
“hoks” or “kraks,” reliable indicators for the presence of a crowned
eagle or leopard, respectively. Diana monkeys responded to these call
sequences accordingly, i.e. by producing their own predator-specific
eagle or leopard alarm call sequences. In the test condition, the same
two call series types were used, this time however preceded by a pair of
Campbell’s monkey “booms,” a call type associated with non-predatory
disturbances (Figure 21.4). Here, Diana monkeys’ responses to the
Campbell’s “hok” and “krak” sequences were significantly reduced, as
if the addition of a “boom” series, prior to these calls, removed their
predator-specific semantic content (Zuberbühler 2002). Although this is
indicative of an understanding of the syntactic structure of these call
combinations, more detailed investigations into the various naturally
produced call combinations of Campbell’s monkeys are needed.
21.3 Social cognition
Human language tends to take place in a state of high mutual awareness
between speakers and receivers; it is grounded in mutual knowledge,
beliefs, and assumptions (Clark and Brennan 1991). What degree of social
awareness is available to non-human primates during natural acts
of communication? One source of heightened social awareness in non--
human primates is seen when vulnerable kin are involved. Male blue
--
-- 53 -- --
--
--
-- --
-- -- --
--
-- -- -- --
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
-- --
--
-- --
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
--
--
-- --
--
-- --
--
13
76
3 6
4 8 5
2 11
13
53
76
9
17
18
5
5
28
1 4
3 2
3 2
11 10 3 4
Cohesion
&Travel
Tree/Branch
Inter-group
Real
Model
Model
Calls
Calls
Alarm
Alarm
Real
Context
Non-predatory Leopard Crowned eagle
Sequence composition
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
N Total
B
B
B
B
K
K
K
H
H
H
W+
W+
W+
W+
H+
H+
H+
K+
K+
K+
K+
K+
K+
K+
K+
Figure 21.4 Composition of Campbell’s monkey call sequences in different behavioral con-
texts. “Alarm” indicates leopard or eagle alarm calls given by sympatric Diana monkeys
(Quattara et al. 2009b).
The cognitive capacities of non-human primates 427
monkeys, for example, produce more alarm calls if their own group is
close to a suspected eagle than if they are further away, irrespective of
their own position relative to the eagle (Papworth et al. 2008). Similarly,
male chimpanzees cooperate with each other in situations when other
group members are exposed to danger, for example, when having to cross
a road that separates part of their habitat (Hockings et al. 2006) or during
encounters with hostile neighbours.
To investigate how chimpanzees deploy communication signals during
cooperative acts we carried out a playback study with wild chimpanzees
in the Taı̈ Forest, Ivory Coast (Herbinger et al. 2009). Using a powerful
playback speaker, we simulated the presence of a neighboring group of
chimpanzees from the border area by playing back pant hoot vocaliza-
tions of a neighboring group member (Figure 21.5). Subjects responded
strongly and in typical ways by producing a range of vocalizations and
gestures, which differed from their response to familiar group members
(Table 21.1).
The overall response pattern, especially in the gestural domain,
revealed that chimpanzees produced a range of affiliative signals
(Table 21.1), as if they first intended to build mutual trust in the face of
this potentially dangerous situation. Similar effects were found when the
calls of unfamiliar strangers were played back, although in this condition
subjects tended to remain silent, perhaps because they had no prior
knowledge about the strength and potential dangerousness of this sud-
denly invading group.
Other research on ape vocal behavior has revealed a number of instances
where individuals deploy vocalizations in ways that suggest awareness of
the calls’ potential impact on others. For example, when finding food
chimpanzees are more likely to produce food grunts if they are in a
Communities
North
Middle
South
N
1 km
65
(b)
(a)
60
55
50
45
40
10 15 20 25 30 35 40
Activity center
Figure 21.5 (a) A playback experiment is carried out in the Tai Forest, Ivory Coast, to
investigate the communication of wild chimpanzees in response to members of their own
group as well as of neighboring and stranger groups. (b) Playbacks were carried out in the
border areas of the home ranges of three chimpanzee groups habituated to the presence of
human observers (Herbinger et al. 2001, 2009).
428 K L A U S Z U B E R B Ü H L E R
party with individuals with whom they have good grooming relations
compared to other individuals (Slocombe et al. 2010). In a recent study,
chimpanzees were more likely to produce alert calls to a snake if they
were in the presence of a naı̈ve audience compared to when others were
already aware of the danger (Crockford et al. 2012). Inhibitory effects on
call production are also common, particularly if the audience is unfavor-
able. Female chimpanzees in oestrous tend to suppress their copulation
calls if they mate with low-ranking males or if they are in a party with
many other females (Townsend et al. 2008). Chimpanzee females can be
similarly inhibited in their pant grunting behavior, a vocal greeting
signal, if the audience is unfavorable. The normal pattern is for lower-
ranking individuals to produce pant grunts when encountering higher-
ranking group members. Observations have shown that if females
encounter a higher-ranking male, then the likelihood of them giving a
pant grunt to the male is significantly reduced if the alpha male is already
present, suggesting that his presence has an inhibitory effect on her
willingness to interact socially with other higher-ranking group mem-
bers (Laporte and Zuberbühler 2010). The composition of the audience
also has demonstrated effects on the acoustic structure of some calls.
Table 21.1 Communication behavior of chimpanzees in response to the
simulated presence of members of their own or other groups (Herbinger et al.
2009).
Behavior Playback condition
Member (N = 11) Neighbour (N = 22) Stranger (N = 20)
Vocal
Screams 0.45 0.91 0.65
Pant hoots 0.73 0.05 –
Hoots 0.09 0.05 –
Pant grunts – 0.05 0.05
Barks 0.27 0.05 0.20
Other calls 0.09 – –
Gestural
Drumming 0.18 0.14 0.05
Hunch 0.45 0.77 0.80
Grin 0.27 0.73 0.55
Mount 0.09 0.41 0.25
Embrace – 0.14 0.15
Kiss – – 0.10
Touch – 0.09 0.05
Finger in mouth – 0.14 0.05
Display 0.09 0.14 –
Non-gestural
Groom 0.27 – 0.15
Eat 0.18 0.18 0.20
Relative frequencies of communication signals produced within the ﬁrst ﬁve minutes after a pant hoot
vocalization (N trials).
The cognitive capacities of non-human primates 429
Chimpanzees that are victims of aggression tend to produce specific
vocalizations, the victim scream, acoustically graded signals that reflects
the severity of the attack experienced by the caller (Slocombe and
Zuberbühler 2007). However, the acoustic structure of victim screams is
additionally influenced by the composition of the audience. If high-
ranking group members are present who are potentially able to interfere
and disperse the aggression, then victims tend to produce screams that
are acoustically shifted towards the more severe end, regardless of the
nature of the attack, as if to persuade the nearby group members to
intervene on their behalf.
Chimpanzees are not the only species in which call production is audi-
ence dependent. In bonobos, for example, it was found that females
produce copulation calls during sexual interactions with both males and
other females (Clay et al. 2011). During female–female interactions it is
always the lower-ranking one of the two partners that produces the calls
and call rates are positively affected by the absolute rank of the partner.
Overall, females appear to be particularly keen to advertise successful
sexual interactions when her partner is high-ranking.
These recent studies demonstrate that great apes appear to be relatively
aware of the social implications of some of their calls and they are able to
adjust their production accordingly. It is likely that this ability, to take the
impact of one’s signals into consideration, is an important precondition to
the uniquely human ability to share intentions and ground acts of com-
munication in shared knowledge and mutually experienced mental states.
21.4 Conclusion
The current evidence from studies on non-human primates demonstrates
that human language is unlikely to have evolved de novo during the last
few million years after the human lineage had split from the common
primate ancestor. More likely, language is the evolutionary product of a
mosaic of adaptations that have related functions in the social and com-
munication abilities of modern primates, which suggests common ances-
try. Humans are not alone in their ability to form mental representations,
and these can be shaped by cultural experiences. They are also not alone in
their ability to associate mental representations with arbitrary communi-
cation signals, some of which are syntactically complex and assembled
from basic units. Despite such parallels, humans appear to be the only
primate species with advanced and voluntary motor control over their
vocal apparatus, an ability that enables play with sounds and generation
of a potentially infinite number of vocal structures. Humans may also be
unique in their social cognitive ability to take into account what others
know and assume about the world before they address them.
430 K L A U S Z U B E R B Ü H L E R
22
Birdsong for biolinguistics
Kazuo Okanoya
22.1 General Introduction
Throughout the year and all over the world, we can hear various sounds
that birds are producing. Among these bird sounds, a class of vocalizations
that consist of more than one type of sound pattern arranged in a certain
temporal sequence is sometimes called a “birdsong,” not only because
of the organization of sound patterns, but also because our musical
aesthetics intuitively allow such an analogy (Hartshorne 1973). Scientific
investigations to date suggest that certain properties of birdsong extend
beyond a musical to a developmental analogy (Marler 2000). More recently,
birdsong has been discussed as a useful biological model that might pro-
vide clues to the evolutionary origin of human speech (Bolhuis, Okanoya,
and Scharff 2010). Here, I first introduce the basics of birdsong science. I
then discuss the degree and relevance of behavioral, neural, and evolu-
tionary analogies between birdsong and human speech by supplying
examples from the current literature as well as from our own research
(Okanoya 2004a).
Humans are singular, but birds are many. Thousands of bird species emit
songlike vocalizations (Catchpole and Slater 2003), but we are a single
species of primate that talks. When we say “birdsong and human speech,”
we are comparing a behavioral property of one species of ape (us) versus
that of thousands of birds, which is as nonsensical as a comparison goes.
Thus, when we say “a bird” or “a birdsong,” this means a bird or a birdsong
in a very general sense, usually biased toward passerine songbirds in
temperature or semitropical zones and those species in which only the
male sings. In these species, birdsong conveys the singer’s species identity
and vigor, and functions in a sexual context. Against conspecific males,
birdsong is a sign of territorial defence, while for females, the same song
is interpreted as the message for mating (Catchpole and Slater 2003).
Compared to birdsong, human speech conveys much more than an
intention to mate, although that is certainly one of the most important
functions of human speech (Miller 2000).
The analogy between birdsong and human speech or music was dis-
cussed by early philosophers such as Herder (1772) and Rousseau (trans-
lated) (Rousseau and Singh 2006), Kant (translated) (Kant, Davids, and
Churton 1899), and, of course, Darwin (1871). Furthermore, excellent
current reviews have dealt with various aspects of birdsong, and I recom-
mend that readers utilize such reviews to familiarize themselves with
topics not addressed in this chapter. For behavioral and developmental
comparisons, Doupe and Kuhl (1999) provide a comprehensive overview.
For the neural mechanisms of birdsong learning, Ölveczky and Gardner
(2011) and Mooney (2009) offer an advanced description, and Hahnloser
and Kotowicz (2010) give more technical accounts on auditory representa-
tions of song. Margoliash and Nusbaum (2009) give consideration to com-
parative studies on syntax evolution, especially using birdsong, and
Berwick et al. (2011) provide an in-depth argument on the level of syntax
in birdsong. Finally, Bolhuis et al. (2010) make the most up-to-date compar-
isons between birdsong and human speech, from genes to behavior.
22.2 Basic description
Before going into specific discussions, we need to introduce general
descriptions of birdsong in relation to human speech. I selected the follow-
ing five topics for comparison: behavior, development, syntax, the brain,
and genes.
22.2.1 Behavior
I first compare physical features of human speech and birdsong (Marler
and Peters 1981). Human speech ranges from 100 Hz to 10–20 kHz and is
rich in harmonics, and particular frequency regions are emphasized to
form formants. Several transitional components exist, including voiceless
sounds, frequency modulations, and click-like elements that are impor-
tant linguistic features. Birdsongs generally occupy narrower frequency
ranges (1–8 kHz), and varieties of acoustic structures range from noise-like
to pure-tone song notes. In general, defining “phonemes” in birdsong is
not possible, but for each species, basic components of songs are limited
to a few acoustic elements. The degree of segmentation is much more
pronounced in birdsong than in human speech. Thus, one can define
behavioral hierarchy based purely on this morphology.
In the birdsong literature, we often use a sound spectrograph to explain
the structure. Here, I define some of the most commonly used terms in
birdsong (Figure 22.1) (Catchpole and Slater 2003). A continuous trace in a
sonogram is a “note.” Of course, whether the trace is continuous depends
432 K A Z U O O K A N O Y A
on the gain of the sonogram and whether obvious breaks occur in the
birdsong. A set of notes that comprises a unit of repetitions is a “syllable,”
and this definition differs from that in human speech, in which syllables
refer to consonant and vowel combinations. At this level and beyond, the
terms begin to gain ambiguity. A syllable in birdsong could contain one
or more song notes, and some researchers never use the term “note.” An
aggregate of syllables that contains a subset of the bird’s note repertoire is
a “motif.” Some species have multiple motifs, while others have a single
motif. The note sequence within a motif may vary due to different num-
bers of repetitions in each rendition of motif or occasional omission of
song notes. These motifs may also be sung in quick succession with a few
intervals, forming a song bout. A song bout is separated from another song
bout by relatively longer intervals of a few seconds.
22.2.2 Development
In passerines, parrots, and hummingbirds, birdsong is a learned behavior.
About 5,000 species exist within these three classes of birds. Among these,
differences occur in the degree of learning devoted to song development.
In some species, including several parrots and mynas, learning determines
most of the vocal morphology. In these species, isolation-reared birds sing
highly abnormal songs that cannot function in the mating context. In
others, including some warblers and finches, vocal morphology is mostly
determined by genetic programming, with little room for learning. Thus,
in these species, songs are more or less similar between geographically
isolated locations.
Birdsong learning comprises two distinctive phases: the sensory phase
and the sensorimotor phase (Doupe and Kuhl 1999). In the sensory phase,
auditory learning takes place in which characteristics of conspecific songs
are memorized by carefully listening to the proper song. Different degrees
of innate predisposition determine which types of songs are remembered.
Without a proper model, a bird could learn heterospecific songs, but if
Motif
Syllable
Note
0.5 s
10
0
Frequency
(kHz)
Figure 22.1 Birdsong terminology. See the text for details.
Birdsong for biolinguistics 433
later exposed to a conspecific song, it might relearn the song, depending
on when such an opportunity comes. This result indicates that some
innate predisposition should be related to the sensory property of the
song to be memorized, but that this predisposition can be overridden by
external stimuli if the proper stimulation is not available. Through the
sensory phase, the bird develops an auditory template that can be used as
an internal reference when the bird begins to vocalize during the sensor-
imotor phase.
The initial vocalizations are usually very premature, consisting of a train
of noisy, short elements with many variations. The vocalizations, or the
song template, are gradually shaped to reflect the characteristics of the
remembered song. Isolation and deafening experiments (Konishi 1965)
have shown that auditory feedback of the bird’s own vocalizations is
important in shaping the song. Through auditory feedback, the auditory
template and actual vocalizations are matched; if discrepancies exist
between them, the vocal output is modified until it matches the template.
These have been highly conceptual descriptions, but neural substrates for
these mechanisms are gradually being understood. Following the descrip-
tion in human speech literature, the initial ambiguous vocalizations are
termed “bubbling” or a “subsong,” and the intermediate vocalizations,
which have some structural resemblance to the adult song, are called
“plastic songs.” The final product of this practice is called a “crystallized
song,” implying that the song will not change after this stage.
The above description is an idealized case, and in reality, many varia-
tions exist. In some species, such as zebra finches, the two phases mostly
overlap because they are remembering the song template as they practice
it. In other species, such as white-crowned sparrows, these two phases are
separated by hundreds of days. This is because in such migratory species,
sensory learning occurs at the site at which they were born and reared, but
sensorimotor learning occurs at the site at which they reproduce.
22.2.3 Syntax
Birdsong conveys the motivational, nutritional, cultural, and developmen-
tal condition of the singer (Nowicki, Peters, and Podos 1998). Each note of
birdsong has specific acoustical properties. These song notes are ordered
according to rules and are typically referred to as “syntax.” However, they
are not connected to any referential meanings (Hauser 1996). In this sense,
birdsong does not have syntax, but only ordering of the elements. Songs
are sung by fully motivated individuals in response to potential mates or
rivals (Catchpole and Slater 2003). Singing itself establishes a context for
mating or fighting, and the style of singing governs the intensity of the
signal. For example, European blackbirds change the arrangement of song
notes depending upon how many rivals are singing. The order of song
notes becomes increasingly jumbled as the aggressiveness of the singer
434 K A Z U O O K A N O Y A
increases (Dabelsteen and Pedersen 1990). In this sense, the song is a
graded or holistic system of communication (Hauser 1996) rather than
a compositional system like language in which different combinations
convey different meanings.
Thus, one cannot directly compare the syntax of birdsong with that of
human language. Instead, we need to identify a strategy for drawing valid
comparisons between the two systems. One possible approach involves
restricting the definition of “syntax.” Indeed, formal language theory
addresses only the form, not the content, of language (Hopcroft,
Motwani, and Ullman 2001). This theory uses the Chomsky hierarchy to
characterize different degrees of linguistic complexity. At the lowest end
of the hierarchy is regular grammar, in which sequences of language are
determined only by local transitional relationships. This class of grammar
has been described in terms of finite-state syntaxes, in which state
transitions produce certain strings. Context-free grammar, in which the
production rule can contain itself and thus enable the recursive produc-
tion of strings (Hauser, Chomsky, and Fitch 2002), forms the next rung in
the hierarchy. Higher classes of grammar have been described, but are
beyond the scope of this study.
After it is assigned to the appropriate level of the hierarchy, birdsong
“syntax” can be compared to the different structural rules underlying
human speech. Analyses of song sequences have suggested that local
transition rules adequately describe the order of the structures that con-
tain the elements of birdsong. For example, the sequences of the elements
in starling songs were analyzed with the first-order (a to b), second-order
(ab to c), and third-order (abc to d) transitional matrices, and the resulting
entropy states were compared (Gentner 2007). Results indicated that the
first-order analyses provided full descriptions of the starling songs. The
same analyses have been performed in Bengalese finches; the second- or
third-order matrix was necessary for a full description, but no self-
embedding structures were found (Okanoya 2004b). Thus, finite-state
syntax, a level of syntax that can be expressed by local transition rules
alone, is an appropriate level of description for birdsong because no
evidence of recursive structures has been identified with regard to this
phenomenon.
22.2.4 Brains
Birds and humans are distantly related, but the basic vertebrate brain
architecture remains unchanged between these two groups of animals
(Ulinski 1983). However, unlike the mammalian brain, the bird brain
does not have folds on the surfaces of the cerebral hemispheres. This
gives the impression that the bird brain is very primitive compared to
the mammalian brain. In fact, the basic plans of the mammalian and avian
forebrains are quite different, but one cannot say that one is more
Birdsong for biolinguistics 435
primitive than the other. In mammals, layers of neurons exist in the pallial
structure of the forebrain, i.e. the cortex. In birds, however, the forebrain
does not have a pallial structure, but instead has a compartment structure.
Nevertheless, we can discuss the correspondence between avian and
mammalian brains based on connectivity with other areas, gene expres-
sion profiles, and biochemical properties. Conceptually speaking, each
layer in the mammalian cerebral cortex roughly corresponds to each
compartment in the avian forebrain (Reiner et al. 2004).
In the human brain, the so-called “language areas” reside between the
motor and perceptual systems (Petersen et al. 1989). Broca’s area is in the
interface between the motor area (frontal cortex) and the association area
(prefrontal cortex). Wernicke’s area is in the very caudal part of the
auditory area, close to areas related to vision and spatial cognition.
Broca’s area controls sequential aspects of language and motor output,
while Wernicke’s area controls semantic aspects of language and auditory
or visual perception. In the bird brain, the “song system” also resides
between the motor and perceptual areas (Bolhuis et al. 2010). The higher
vocal centre (HVC) is directly connected to the robust nucleus of the
archipallium (RA), the motor cortex equivalent to a bird’s vocal control
(Figure 22.2). The caudomedial nidopallium (NCM) and caudomedial
mesopallium (CMM) are considered to be the memory stores for learned
song and are located close to the primary auditory area in the bird brain.
Thus, the topography of the HVC and NCM/CMM are analogous to that of
Broca’s area and Wernicke’s area. Several direct and indirect connections
exist between the HVC and NCM/CMM in the avian brain.
CMM
HVC
NCM
NIF
LMAN
Area X
RA
DLM
Syrinx
Posterior
Anterior
Figure 22.2 The schematic diagram of the brain of the songbird; description of the song
system. The left side shows the front of the animal. Anterior pathway originates from the HVC
and connects with area X, DLM, LMAN, and RA. Posterior pathway also originates from the
HVC and directly connects to the RA.
436 K A Z U O O K A N O Y A
Several cortex–basal ganglia–thalamus–cortex loop connections occur
in the mammalian brain. Human speech is also controlled by some of these
loop connections, and the basal ganglia play an important role in learning
and maintaining normal speech. In the songbird brain, the HVC is con-
nected to area X, which is considered to be a part of the avian basal ganglia.
From there, the connection goes to the thalamus and then back to a part of
the cortex-equivalent structure, the lateral magnocellular nucleus of the
anterior nidopallium (LMAN). This loop structure is important for learning
and maintaining the song. Note that birds with lesions in area X sing
stuttering songs (Kobayashi, Uno, and Okanoya 2001), and humans with
lesions in the basal ganglia also stutter their utterances (Alm 2004).
From the HVC, a direct projection of motor commands goes to the RA,
the motor-cortex equivalent of the avian brain. Another projection goes to
the RA from the LMAN. How these two inputs to the RA interact with each
other is one of the most interesting topics in birdsong neuroscience and
will be discussed elsewhere in this chapter. From the RA, a motor output
goes to the hypoglossal motor nucleus (XIIts), a song motor nucleus that
directly controls the effector organ, the syrinx. The pathway through the
HVC, the RA, and nucleus XIIts is called the dorsal pathway, while that
through the HVC, area X, the LMAN, and back to the RA is called the
anterior forebrain pathway (AFP). In general, a lesion in any part of the
dorsal pathway results in a song production deficit, but AFP lesions
produce more complicated effects, especially during learning (Doupe and
Kuhl 1999). Note that a direct pathway exists from the RA (a cortical
structure) to nucleus XIIts (a medullar nucleus) in songbirds, but not in
pigeons (Wild and Arends, 1987). A direct pathway from the cortex to the
medulla that controls vocal output is scarce in primates; it is only evident
in humans and not in other primates, including chimpanzees (Jurgens
2002).
22.2.5 Genes
FoxP2 is one of the genes that regulates when and where other genes are
transcribed into proteins. FoxP2 is a highly conserved gene among animals
from worms to humans, but the number of genes regulated by FoXP2 has
gradually increased over the course of evolution. Through the mammalian
evolution of about 60 million years, three point mutations have occurred
in FoxP2; two of these took place during the 6 million years since our
ancestors departed from the chimpanzees. This means that FoxP2 is a
gene whose specific mutation was accelerated and reserved in the
human lineage (Lai et al. 2001). An English family was found in which
some of the members have degenerations of the FoxP2 gene. Some of
these individuals showed deficits, particularly in speech articulation, and
as a result, they had a difficulty in producing and comprehending language
(Lai et al. 2001).
Birdsong for biolinguistics 437
This finding naturally stimulated birdsong researchers because birdsong,
like human speech, is a learned vocal behavior. These researchers suspected
that FoxP2 should have something to do with song learning, although avian
FoxP2 and human FoxP2 both have several amino acid replacements. Gene
expression studies examined the expression patterns of FoxP2 in the brain,
finding that FoxP2 is highly expressed during song learning, but not before
or after that period (Teramitsu and White 2006). Direct manipulation of
FoxP2 expression was made possible by using a viral infection technique to
knock down FoxP2 in the basal ganglia in zebra finches, showing that such
treatment did impair song learning (Haesler et al. 2007).
FoxP2 is but one of several hundred genes that may be related to birdsong
and speech, and it is erroneous to consider FoxP2 a “monolith” (as in the
film 2001: A Space Odyssey) of vocal learning. In our laboratory, we found
that a family of cellular adhesion molecules, cadherins, changes the
expression pattern during the sensory and sensorimotor phase of song
learning in Bengalese finches (Matsunaga and Okanoya 2008). Cadherin 7
is downregulated during the sensory learning period. Our results showed
that overexpression of cadherin 7 via a viral infection during the sensor-
imotor period in juvenile Bengalese finches disrupted song learning, just
as the knockdown of FoxP2 did in juvenile zebra finches (Matsunaga et al.
2011). Thus, studies on the genetic mechanisms of speech and birdsong
should not overemphasize the contribution of a single gene, but instead
consider the functioning of networks of multiple genes.
22.3 Speciﬁc issues
After reviewing the basic facts of birdsongs, I now provide more specific
points that are useful in making advanced comparisons between birdsong
and human speech, especially in the context of biolinguistics.
22.3.1 Birdsong syntax: Can it be a model of syntax in human
language?
Singing a song establishes a sexual context between birds, but each
element of birdsong or combinations of them do not have corresponding
meanings. This observation has been used to ascertain that the term
“syntax” should not be used in the birdsong literature. However, element
sequential ordering in birdsong can well be analyzed and modelled by
concepts of formal syntax theory, and this provides an interesting bio-
logical model for that theory (Berwick et al. 2011). To enable a fruitful
comparison between birdsong syntax and syntax in human language, we
should restrict the comparison to the level of string manipulations that
include studies of perceptual, motor, and developmental segmentation
and chunking of song element strings.
438 K A Z U O O K A N O Y A
To describe the syntax that characterizes birdsong, both the terminal
symbols and the structure by which these are ordered need to be identified.
The first issue relates to the basic unit of song production and perception.
Although birdsong consists of a set of elements that are delimited by silent
intervals, these elements are not guaranteed to correspond to the unit of
perception and production. Statistical analysis of co-occurring elements and
behavioral analysis of song productions and perceptions are necessary in
this regard. The second issue is related to the statistical and rule-based
relationships between the units and the resulting topography. These rela-
tionships can be expressed in several ways, including traditional transition
diagrams, state notations, sets of derivation rules, and more linguistically
oriented branching diagrams.
In the following analyses, we used the Bengalese finch, a songbird, as a
model to study the perceptual and motor aspects of song segmentation
and chunking (Okanoya 2004b). Unlike other experimental birds, such as
zebra finches, Bengalese finches sing complex songs that have a hierarch-
ical structure that are learned via segmentation and chunking. The small-
est unit of song production is the “note.” In most species, several notes are
serially ordered to form a song, and the order becomes more or less fixed.
However, Bengalese finches combine notes to constitute a “chunk,” and
then further combine several chunks in multiple ways to constitute song
phrases. Thus, Bengalese finch songs can be expressed by finite-state song
syntax (Figure 22.3). Because of their hierarchical and syntactical nature,
Bengalese finch songs provide a suitable model for studying segmenta-
tion and chunking in perception and behavior (Okanoya 2004a).
Furthermore, because songbird songs are learned, Bengalese finch songs
represent an interesting parallel to the acquisition of human language
(Okanoya 2002).
a a
b b
c c
d d
e e f g
10
Time (s)
Frequency
(kHz)
ab
ab
ab cde fg
Figure 22.3 A sonogram and ﬁnite-state syntax extracted from a Bengalese ﬁnch.
Birdsong for biolinguistics 439
Based on these studies, we can take a descriptive approach using finite-
state syntax and an explanative approach using hidden Markov models. At
the conclusion, I suggest novel analysis schema using variable N-gram
models for chunk extraction and k-reversible automata for transitional
analysis.
22.3.1.1 Segmentation and chunking
In human language, multiple syllables are chunked to form a word,
and these words are arranged to form a sentence. Words have a perceptual
and motor reality for humans in that we can use discrete memories to
both perceive and produce a particular word, and a focal brain lesion can
obliterate the mental correlates of a specific category of words (Goodglass
et al. 1986). Do birdsongs have such units of production and perception? An
examination of the developmental process of birds constitutes one
approach to this question. Juvenile birds with more than one tutor often
learn parts of songs from different tutors and merge the parts to form
one song. Two species of songbirds, the zebra finch and the Bengalese
finch, have been examined in detail with regard to their development of
song segmentation (Takahasi, Yamada, and Okanoya 2010; Williams and
Staples 1992).
A second approach to answering this question involves studying real-
time song production and perception. To examine the unit of production,
one approach is to disrupt ongoing singing with a mild disturbance; the
point at which a song terminates is considered to represent a boundary of
motor chunking. If a motor programme actually chunks together several
elements, the break points in songs might correspond to the boundaries
between these chunks. When zebra finches were subjected to experiments
focused on this issue, the minimum unit of song production in this species
was found to correspond to song syllables (Cynx 1990).
For the perceptual side of segmentation, a study inspired by Chomsky’s
generative syntax (Chomsky 2002a) is very suggestive. When an extrane-
ous stimulus was introduced while humans were processing a sentence,
the part of the sentence that had perceptual unity could be processed prior
to interruption by an extraneous stimulus (Fodor and Bever 1965). Indeed,
humans can retain units that are of a higher order than words in their
mental representations. Noun and verb phases are among these higher-
order entities. The psychological existence of such abstract constructs was
demonstrated with a behavioral experiment. Subjects were asked to iden-
tify the positions of clicks while listening to a sentence, and participants
often displaced the position of the click in the direction of the boundaries
of phrases. Similar procedures can be performed to examine perceptual
chunking in birdsong (Suge and Okanoya 2009).
In the following sections, I present detailed accounts of a series of
studies that addressed developmental, perceptual, and motor chunking
in Bengalese finch songs.
440 K A Z U O O K A N O Y A
22.3.1.1.1 Developmental segmentation
I hypothesized that the complexity of songs sung by Bengalese finches
might have developed from perceptual and motor segmentation/chunking
of available model songs by young birds. When chicks are raised by only
one tutor, they learn the elements and order of songs primarily by copying
the songs sung by that tutor. However, chicks with more than one tutor
might learn pieces from each tutor and recombine them to form original
songs. Our purpose was to clarify the developmental process by which
Bengalese finches use chunking and segmentation to learn songs. The
following is a short description of our recent work (Takahasi et al. 2010).
Eleven adult male and female Bengalese finches were kept in a large
aviary with 11 nest pots, where they raised a total of 40 male chicks within
6 months. When the finches reached adulthood, we analyzed their songs
and assessed their similarity to the songs sung by tutors by examining
which part of the song came from which tutor. Using second-order tran-
sition analysis, we also analyzed the songs sung by tutors and chicks in
terms of transitional structures; we measured the note-to-note transition
probabilities as well as the inter-note intervals and jumps in pitch.
Bengalese finches raised with multiple tutors learned songs from several
tutors. Approximately 80% of the birds learned from between two and
four tutors, implying the operation of three underlying processes. First,
juvenile finches segmented the continuous singing of an adult bird into
smaller units. Second, these units were learned as chunks when the
juveniles practiced singing. Third, juvenile birds recombined the chunks
to create an original song. As a result, the chunks copied by juveniles had
higher transition probabilities and shorter intervals of silence than those
characterizing the boundaries of the original chunks. These processes
suggest that Bengalese finches segmented songs by using both statistical
and prosodic cues during learning.
22.3.1.1.2 Perceptual segmentation
Following the click experiment (Fodor and Bever 1965), we demonstrated
the existence of a hierarchy characterizing song perception in Bengalese
finches. The unit of song perception in this hierarchy is larger than the
note, which is the smallest unit of song production.
Using operant conditioning, we trained male Bengalese finches to peck a
key when they heard a short burst (10 ms) of white noise. The birds were
trained to initiate the trial by pecking the observation key. After a random
delay of 0 to 3 s, a short burst of noise was presented, and the birds were
trained to peck the report key within a limited time interval (4 s initially,
gradually decreasing to 1 s). Correct detection of the noise burst within the
time interval was reinforced with a reward of yellow millet seeds. We
gradually shortened the time available for an effective response to train
the birds to respond as soon as they heard the burst of noise. We then
introduced the subject bird’s own song as a background stimulus. After the
Birdsong for biolinguistics 441
bird responded to the observation key, we played a short segment (approx-
imately 2 s) of the bird’s song and superimposed a noise burst within the
song, either inside or outside a “chunk” (two to five successive song notes
that always appeared together). The song was played back either forward
or in reverse.
We predicted that the reaction time for detecting the noise burst would
be shorter when the noise burst occurred outside the chunk and longer
when it was buried within the chunk. We also predicted that the reaction
times would not differ when the song was reversed because a chunk would
be processed before the noise burst within that chunk when the song was
played forward. In addition, we hypothesized that reaction times to noise
bursts that were outside a chunk would not differ from those to songs
without a superimposed noise. Finally, we predicted that reaction times
would not differ according to whether the noise burst was inside or outside
the chunk when the song was reversed.
As predicted, the reaction times were significantly longer when the
noise burst was within than when it was outside the chunk. We found
no differences in reaction times when the song was reversed. Our results
supported the notion that the perceptual unit of Bengalese finch songs is
greater than an isolated note. The birds perceive songs by chunking notes
and process the chunk as a unit.
22.3.1.1.3 Motor chunking
We next demonstrated the existence of the motor chunk, a higher-order
unit of song production (Seki, Suzuki, Takahasi, and Okanaya 2008). We
subjected singing Bengalese finches to a strobe light flash and determined
the position in the song at which the bird stopped singing. Thirty song
episodes were recorded for each of eight birds. We then used the recordings
to count the note-to-note transitions and calculated the song note transition
probability for each bird. When a note transitioned to the same specific note
with a >90% probability (i.e. they tended to appear together), the notes were
regarded as a “within-chunk” sequence. After the songs were recorded, each
bird was placed in a small cage in a sound-attenuated box.
A light was flashed when the bird began a song, which usually resulted
in the immediate termination of the song, implying that the fundamental
unit of song production was the note. However, when the light interrup-
tion occurred within a chunk, the subsequent notes of that chunk tended
to be produced, whereas interruptions presented between chunks tended
to cause instantaneous song termination. This difference was statistically
significant. These results suggest that the associations among sequences of
song notes within chunks were more resistant to interruption than those
between chunks. This confirmed that Bengalese finch songs are character-
ized by a motor hierarchy.
Higher-order song units might exist not only as a unit of perception, but
also as a unit of motor production. Thus, to produce songs, the brain of the
442 K A Z U O O K A N O Y A
bird might require a representation not only of each song note, but also of
each group of song notes that serves as segmented parts of the song. Our
results suggest that similar mechanisms of stimulus segmentation operate
in Bengalese finches and humans, and that these result from complex
interactions among perception, motor, segmentation, and chunking
processes.
22.3.1.2 Procedures to extract song syntax
Two primary approaches have been proposed for extracting the syntax
from a sequence of birdsong: the descriptive approach and the explanatory
approach. The former attempts to produce a short-hand description of the
birdsong sequence to enable comparisons among experimental manipu-
lations or developmental processes, and the latter attempts to use certain
mechanistic assumptions about a mental or brain representation of the
birdsong to provide an account of why a particular sequence emerged.
Descriptive models use actual data on song strings and try to condense
these into a set of rules or probabilities. Earlier attempts primarily utilized
the transition diagram based on element-to-element transitional probabil-
ities (also known as a first-order Markov model or bigram). The weaknesses
of such probabilistic representations involve their sensitivity to subtle
fluctuations in data sets and their inability to address relationships more
complex than adjacency. The n-gram model (also called an (n – 1)th-order
Markov model) attempts to overcome the second weakness by addressing
probabilistic relationships longer than immediate adjacency and predict-
ing the nth elements based on the preceding n – 1 elements. A variant of
this model involves changing the length of n according to the data so that n
is always optimal. However, these modifications are not free of fluctuation
(Okanoya 2004b).
The hidden Markov model (HMM) is among the most applicable models
in terms of its explanatory power. This model assumes that actual ele-
ments of a song represent output from hidden states (Kogan and
Margoliash 1998). The task is to estimate the number of these hidden
states, the transitional relationships between the states, and the probabil-
ity with which each song element emerges from each of the states. This
task requires prior knowledge or assumptions about the nature of the
states, as well as inferences about the transitional relationships between
the states (Katahira, Okanoya, and Okada 2007). The established neuro-
anatomical and neurophysiological characteristics of the song control
system suggest that HMM represents one candidate for modeling the
valid representations involved in the generative aspects of birdsong. The
HVC probably stores hidden states (Fiete et al. 2010), and the RA is probably
responsible for producing each song element (Leonardo and Fee 2005).
In order to overcome the drawbacks of the two approaches and to provide
a model for both descriptive and explanatory purposes, we developed a
set of procedures for automatically producing a deterministic finite-state
Birdsong for biolinguistics 443
automaton (Kakishita et al. 2008). We first constructed an n-gram represen-
tation of the sequence data. Based on this representation, song elements
were chunked to yield a hierarchically higher-order unit. We then devel-
oped a diagram that mapped transitions among these units and subjected
this diagram to further processing for k-reversibility, where k-reversibility
referred to the property of the resulting automaton that was able to deter-
mine the state that existed k steps back from the present state (Angluin
1982). Based on our experience with Bengalese finch songs, n was usually
between 3 and 4, and k was often between 0 and 2. This set of procedures
provided a robust estimation of automaton topography and has been useful
in evaluating the effects of developmental or experimental manipulations
of birdsong syntax. Furthermore, the resulting finite-state automaton can be
used to guide further neurophysiological studies.
22.3.1.3 Discussion
Using analyses of Bengalese finch songs as examples, we demonstrated
ways to advance studies in birdsong syntax and to clarify the relationship
between the syntaxes of birdsong and human language. This approach
offers both limitations and advantages. The limitations involve our origi-
nal assumption that birdsong is a holistic signal with constituents that do
not correspond to particular meanings; thus, birdsong is not characterized
by compositionality. As a result, birdsong can serve as only a formal, rather
than a detailed, model of human syntax. However, the absence of refer-
ential content in birdsong does not imply its inadequacy as a model of
human language if we assume that the mechanisms underlying form and
content are independent. Human inferior frontal areas have been shown
to respond differently to strings derived from regular grammar than they
do to those derived from context-free grammar. Area 45 was active for both
types of grammar, whereas area 44 was active only in response to context-
free grammar (Bahlmann, Schubotz, and Friederici 2008). Thus, satisfac-
tory linguistic form, even without linguistic content, activated neural
systems involved in language. In this regard, recent demonstrations that
starlings and Bengalese finches could parse context-free grammar in a
behavioral discrimination task (Gentner et al. 2006; Abe and Watanabe
2011) were somewhat unexpected and should be considered seriously. It
follows that although no evidence for the use of recursive mechanisms to
produce birdsong has been reported, birds might be able to perceptually
process such structures. However, reanalyses of stimulus properties sug-
gest alternative explanations: phonetic cues might be sufficient to account
for such results (Beckers et al. 2012). Thus the issue remains unsolved and a
breakthrough in conceptual and experimental design is expected to clarify
this area of research (Berwick et al. 2011).
For the present purposes, birdsong syntax should serve as an adequate
model for human language acquisition because key features are common
to both systems. For example, the development of both birdsong and
444 K A Z U O O K A N O Y A
human language is characterized by a period of babbling, premature vocal-
izations similar to adult phonology but less stereotyped. A recent neuro-
anatomical study demonstrated that lesioning the higher-order vocal
control nucleus (analogous to Broca’s area) in zebra finches abolished
normal song development; birds that underwent such treatment remained
at the babbling stage of song production (Aronov, Andalman, and Fee
2008). Thus, the higher vocal area is absolutely necessary for the crystal-
lization of song syntax in birds. Similarly, babbling in human infants
might also be independent of Broca’s area, and sensorimotor experimen-
tation, in the absence of a higher-order area, might serve as a prerequisite
for later linguistic sophistication.
More direct comparisons can be made from recent results in our own
laboratory. Using artificial sound sequences that were segmented based
solely on statistical cues, we found that when human adults continued
listening to auditory streams, an area adjunctive to the anterior cingulate
cortex was activated during the initial learning phase, and this activity
gradually disappeared as learning advanced (Abla, Katahira, and Okanoya
2008). When the subject completely learned the segmentation task, infer-
ior frontal areas, including Broca’s area, were activated (Abla and Okanoya
2008). Determining whether juvenile birds with lesions created on a struc-
ture analogous to the anterior cingulate cortex (Okanoya 2007) and reared
in a multi-tutor environment learn by segmentation and chunking will be
interesting.
22.3.2 Neural mechanisms of birdsong syntax
Syntactical control in birdsong involves at least two distinct processes:
chunking and branching. Chunking is a process that integrates multiple
motor units into one. Branching is a process that selects one of several
possible song notes (or chunks) to sing after one particular note (or chunk).
Here, I discuss neural mechanisms of chunking and branching.
Because birdsong is a learned behavior, we need to know the mecha-
nisms of sequential learning. Learning birdsongs depends on auditory
feedback and error correction. I also discuss how these two processes
affect the acquisition of song sequence.
22.3.2.1 Neural mechanisms for chunking and branching
How is a chunk of song notes coded in the bird brain? Neurons can be
sensitive to a particular combination of events. If a set of temporal
combination-sensitive neurons exist in the brain, such a system would
code for temporal sequence in birdsong. For example, if the bird sang a
song with a sequence of A–B–C, then the bird should have neurons sensitive
to the combination of A–B or B–C. This assumption was examined by a single-
unit electrophysiological technique (Lewicki and Konishi 1995). They
indeed found neurons in the HVC that had specific combination-sensitivities
Birdsong for biolinguistics 445
for the bird’s own song. But how are such “useful” neural connections
available in the nervous system? We felt that the nervous system is more
robust, and thus used single-unit electrophysiology to show that note-to-note
transitional information is population-coded in the HVC neurons of
Bengalese finches (Nishikawa, Okada, and Okanoya 2008).
In male zebra finches, each of the HVC neurons that projects to the
RA spikes at a particular time during a song sequence. Although firing
patterns of these neurons are very sparse and bursting, this timing is
highly precise (Hahnloser, Kozhevnikov, and Fee 2002). Such precision
may be made possible by inhibitory interneurons and recurrent excitation
of projection neurons (Mooney 2004). To produce variable song sequences,
one must have a branching mechanism that controls which of a variety of
possible syllable combinations are chosen each time the bird sings.
Lesioning of the LMAN in adult Bengalese finches reduces the acoustic
variability of each song element, but does not affect the sequence varia-
bility (Hampton, Sakata, and Brainard 2009). However, lesions of the NIf
result in elimination of song branching and simplify songs in this species
(Hosino and Okanoya 2000). These results suggest that the precise timing
of a song sequence is organized in the HVC, but that branching of the
sequence, and therefore chunking of song elements, may require other
pathways.
In humans, clinical observations of speech sequence deficits are abun-
dant, but these results hardly explain the mechanical details of sequence
production because sequence deficits in human speech could arise
from either psychological or peripheral factors. A functional MRI study
attempted to depict the brain regions necessary for syllable sequence
production (Bohland and Guenther 2006). In that study, comparisons
were made between syllable and sequence complexity and between overt
and covert speech production. The results showed that overt speech acti-
vated motor and auditory cortical areas related to speech production and
perception, and subcortical structures including the insula, thalamus, basal
ganglia, and the cerebellum. Increasing the sequential complexity addition-
ally activated cortical and subcortical areas suggested to be involved in
general motor sequencing, such as the left inferior sulcus, the frontal
operculum, anterior insula, supplementary and pre-supplementary motor
areas, and the basal ganglia. Although these results are promising, our
present knowledge of human speech production does not allow for compar-
isons, at a functional level, with what is known in birdsong syntax.
22.3.2.2 Auditory feedback and reinforcement learning
Both birdsong and speech are motor behaviors adjusted by auditory feed-
back. The brain circuitry for speech and birdsong share a common feature
in that the motor system also responds to auditory features, and the
auditory perception of song or speech also depends on the proper func-
tioning of the motor components within the “speech” of the birdsong
446 K A Z U O O K A N O Y A
system. A clear demonstration occurred in birdsong motor components.
Even the HMM showed a strong selectivity for species-typical songs
(Williams and Nottebohm 1985), and this selectivity is found up to the
highest motor nucleus, the HVC (Margoliash and Konishi 1985). The song
motor system is also crucial for auditory discrimination of species-typical
songs, as shown by lesion studies (Okanoya et al. 2001). Likewise, speech
stimuli activate human vocal motor areas (Binder et al. 1997), and TMS
stimulation of the motor areas disrupts auditory discrimination (Mottonen
and Watkins 2009).
Motor performance is guided and maintained by auditory feedback of
self-produced vocalizations both in speech and birdsong. In the song
system, the anterior forebrain pathway provides an indirect, recursive
connection to the direct motor pathway. This anatomical architecture
stimulated computational neuroscientists who provided attractive models
that explain functional and anatomical relationships in the song system.
One of the earliest models assumed that reinforcement learning must be
taking place in the song system and that the anterior forebrain pathway
should provide an error signal to the direct motor pathway (Doya and
Sejnowski 1995). Our current knowledge of the song system basically
supports this notion, but further studies are needed to fully understand
how the system can learn the song.
The reinforcement learning scenario occurs as follows. The anterior
forebrain pathway connects to the nucleus of the direct motor pathway,
the RA, through the output from the LMAN. Thus, the signal from the
LMAN should be providing some sort of learning signal that modifies the
connective strength between the HVC and the RA (Doya and Sejnowski
1995). One of the earliest experimental approaches attempted to validate
this assumption (Brainard and Doupe 2000); when zebra finches were
deafened, song acoustical deterioration occurred within 1 month, but
when lesions were induced in the LMAN prior to deafening, this deterio-
ration did not occur. This result could be interpreted to mean that the
deafening-induced deterioration was due to an error signal from the
LMAN, and when lesions are present in this nucleus, the error signal is
no longer delivered to the direct motor pathway. However, this experi-
ment alone could not determine the nature of the signal. This signal could
be instructive, indicating how the connection between the HVC and
RA should be modified, or permissive, allowing plastic changes between
the two nuclei to occur but without specific information on how to modify
the connection.
Advances in behavioral manipulations have radically expanded this
view. A technique to detect a particular song syllable in real time and to
give an auditory perturbation to that syllable allowed for the determina-
tion of whether birds had the ability to rapidly modify song acoustics
(Andalman and Fee 2009). With this procedure, one could record real-
time functioning of the LMAN in the maintenance of learned songs.
Birdsong for biolinguistics 447
When the LMAN was active, birds were able to shift the song syllable to the
direction opposite to that of the noise-masker, but when the LMAN was
inactivated, this shift did not occur. This is strong evidence that the
anterior forebrain pathway is providing at least a part of the instructive
signal in addition to the permissive signal.
Feedback masking has also been used in human speech experiments,
and this technique was recently combined with brain imaging to reveal
brain mechanisms for real-time speech production (Christoffels,
Formisano, and Schiller 2007). When overt speech was masked by pink
noise, the activities of the insula and anterior cingulated cortex increased,
suggesting that these areas are at the core of the speech adjustment
system. The anterior cingulated cortex has been suggested to be involved
in error monitoring (Magno 2006), and this structure receives direct or
indirect projection from the basal ganglia. Thus, the anatomical position
and functional role of the human anterior cingulated cortex could be
comparable to that of the songbird LMAN.
22.3.2.3 Discussion
Taken together, both in human speech and birdsong, specialized motor
areas provide a perceptual framework, and auditory feedback is crucial for
the maintenance of learned vocalizations by providing error corrections to
the motor system. Because of the functional and anatomical similarities
between the two, birdsong will continue to serve as an excellent model to
understand human speech production.
22.3.3 Evolution: Can we learn from birdsong?
The Bengalese finch is a domesticated Japanese strain of the white-rumped
munia, a wild species endemic to South-East Asia. During 250 years of
domestication, Bengalese finches have developed phonologically and
syntactically complex courtship songs. Both string-pulling and phonotaxic
responses showed that female Bengalese finches prefer complex songs,
suggesting that females paired with complex singers were probably more
successful in breeding. A cross-fostering study involving two strains
revealed that certain genetic backgrounds are associated with song com-
plexity in Bengalese finches. Munias demonstrated great rigidity in learn-
ing songs identified with their own strain, and they had difficulty learning
songs associated with the domesticated strain. In contrast, the Bengalese
strain showed equal competency in learning songs originating from both
strains, although their accuracy was generally inferior. Our observations
in wild habitats suggest that song complexity might be related to pressure
for species identification, resulting in simpler songs in habitats with more
sympatric species. Overall, sexual selection promoted song complexity by
appealing to female preferences, and domestication exaggerated this
tendency by allowing relaxation of species identification pressures. The
448 K A Z U O O K A N O Y A
process proposed for song evolution in birds might have relevance to the
process by which human language emerges and evolves.
Birdsong is a learned behavior that is culturally transmitted within a set
of biological constraints. Birdsong can serve as an important biological
model for human language with respect to interactions between culture
and heredity. This study examined the differences between a wild and a
domesticated strain of white-rumped munia (Lonchura striata) in terms of
their songs. The comparison between the two strains revealed evolution-
ary factors affecting the acoustical and syntactical morphology of species-
specific songs; these factors might also have relevance to the emergence of
language in humans.
Wild white-rumped munias were originally imported from the Sappo
port in Sekkou-shou, China, to Nagasaki, Japan, by a federal king of Kyu-
syu Prefecture in 1763 (Washio 1996). Since that time, they have fre-
quently been imported from China to Japan, particularly from 1804 to
1829, when aviculture flourished in Japan. The white-rumped munia is
generally brown with a white patch on the rump, as its name implies
(Restall 1996). However, in 1856, birds with totally white plumage were
distinguished from white-rumped munias and called Juushimatsu, or soci-
ety finches. Although these birds were actually imported from China,
European aviculturists believed that they came from India, and domesti-
cated white-rumped munias imported from Japan to Europe were referred
to as Bengalese finches (Buchan 1976). Thus, in what follows, the Japanese
strain of wild white-rumped munias will be referred to as Bengalese
finches. Bengalese finches were domesticated for their reproductive effi-
ciency and their ability to foster other bird species, as well as for their
plumage (Taka-Tsukasa 1917). During the approximately 250 years of their
domestication, however, song characteristics have changed substantially
from those observed in the wild strain, and the purpose of this chapter is to
discuss the possible behavioral and evolutionary reasons behind these
differences.
22.3.3.1 Song differences in wild and domesticated strains
Representative sonograms from a Bengalese finch and a white-rumped
munia are shown in Figure 22.4. Brief inspection of the sonograms sug-
gested that these two songs were very different in acoustical morphology
and the order of elements. In general, the songs of the wild strain were
noise-like and the notes were ordered simply and in stereotypic fashion,
whereas the songs of the domesticated strain were more narrow-banded
and had complex note-to-note transition patterns. We initially confirmed
these impressions with acoustical analyses of song notes, and then by
transition analysis of note sequences (Honda and Okanoya 1999).
Acoustical analyses revealed that the frequency of the maximum
amplitude was higher in Bengalese finches than in white-rumped munias,
and bandwidths 15 dB below the maximum amplitude were wider in
Birdsong for biolinguistics 449
white-rumped munias than in Bengalese finches. Furthermore, the sound
density (root-mean-square value of 5 s of continuous singing) was, on
average, 14 dB higher in Bengalese finches than in white-rumped munias
when recordings were made with identical settings. However, no differ-
ences in the number of types of song elements were found between
Bengalese finches (average 9.3) and white-rumped munias (average 8.4).
Thus, Bengalese finch songs were higher-pitched, more narrow-banded
and louder than white-rumped munia songs, but the strains did not differ
with regard to repertoire size.
The sequential complexity of the songs was evaluated with the linearity
index (Scharff and Nottebohm 1991), which is obtained by dividing the
number of unique types of song notes by the number of observed transi-
tion patterns from one note type to another. This index is 1.0 (when N is
the number of note types, then this will be N/N = 1) when the element
sequence in the song is always identical, and it will approach 0 (N/N2 = 1/N)
when the element sequence is completely random. Results of this analysis
showed that the average linearity index was significantly lower, signifying
greater complexity, in Bengalese finches (0.33) than in white-rumped
munias (0.61).
22.3.3.2 Female reactions to song complexity
What are the functions of song complexity in the Bengalese finch?
Although this species is domesticated, I hypothesized that function
evolved in part as a result of sexual selection by females (Anderson and
Iwasa 1996; Catchpole and Slater 2003; Okanoya 2002). Because the
Japanese avicultural literature does not contain evidence that songs were
artificially selected by breeders (Washio 1996), we assumed that breeders
selected only successful pairs and that this indirectly resulted in the
selection of good singers. Therefore, I further hypothesized that males
and females differed with regard to song perception and that song
Bengalese finch
10 10
5 5
0 0
10 10
5 5
0 0
0 0
2 2
4 4
White-rumped munia
Time (s)
Frequency
(kHz)
Frequency
(kHz)
Figure 22.4 Sonograms from a Bengalese ﬁnch and a white-rumped munia.
450 K A Z U O O K A N O Y A
complexity efficiently stimulated sexual behavior in females. I evaluated
the former hypothesis using heart rate measurements, and the latter using
several assays that supplemented one another (Searcy 1992). I first meas-
ured the reinforcing properties of a complex song using an operant task
involving perch selection. Next, I measured the degree of nest-building
behavior by female Bengalese finches as a function of stimulus songs.
In addition, I measured the serum estradiol levels in females stimulated
with complex versus simple songs.
22.3.3.2.1 Heart rate
Birdsong might be assessed and processed differently by each sex because
its production and functional use are often sexually dimorphic. However,
straightforward examination of this hypothesis has been difficult because
different behavioral measures have been used to describe the process of
song assessment in the two sexes. We analyzed changes in heart rate as an
index of song assessment in the Bengalese finch (Ikebuchi and Okanoya
2003). In this species, only males sing, and song is used exclusively for
mate attraction. Bengalese finches are not territorial, and the songs are not
used in aggressive contexts. When a song stimulus was presented for the
first time, the heart rate of the study participants increased. The duration
of this increase in heart rate was defined as the period in which the heart
rate increased by two standard deviations above that measured in the
baseline interval, which was 10 s before song presentation. In both sexes,
the repeated presentation of one song resulted in a reduction in the heart
rate response. The presentation of heterospecific (zebra finch) songs did
not increase the heart rate of Bengalese finches. When a novel conspecific
song was presented, the heart rate increased only in females, and not in
males, with each presentation of the stimulus. These findings confirmed
the differential responses to songs by each sex in this species: males
ignored the songs of other birds, whereas females were attentive. These
patterns were not due to sex differences in memory capacity; operant
conditioning studies have demonstrated that males and females do not
differ in their memory capacity for songs (Ikebuchi and Okanoya 2003).
Instead, the results suggested that syntactically complex songs might be
more potent than simple songs in maintaining arousal in females.
22.3.3.2.2 Reinforcing properties of song complexity
To examine the preferences of female Bengalese finches with regard to
song complexity, we employed an operant conditioning technique using
the song as a reinforcer (Morisaka, Katahira, and Okanoya 2008). The
protocol and apparatus used by Gentner and Hulse (2000) to test song
preference in female European starlings were modified for Bengalese
finches. I prepared a large metal cage and placed pot-shaped nests in the
two upper corners. I also placed small speakers for song playback inside
the nests and fastened a perch in front of each of the nest pots. A natural
Birdsong for biolinguistics 451
song sung by a male Bengalese finch was used to prepare a simple (fixed
order of song notes) and a complex (varied order of song notes according to
a finite-state rule) song, both of which were played back from the relevant
speaker when the bird sat on the perch. A female bird was placed inside
this apparatus. Four of the eight birds tested chose the complex song, one
chose the simple song and the remaining three chose both songs at ran-
dom. These results suggest that the song preferences of female Bengalese
finches varied depending on the individual, although more tended to
prefer complex to simple songs. Because only one type of song was used
in the experiment, the results should be interpreted with caution.
Nevertheless, such female preferences could potentially contribute to
sexual selection that facilitates the evolution of complex songs in male
Bengalese finches (Morisaka et al. 2008).
22.3.3.2.3 Nest-building behavior
To further demonstrate the function of song complexity, I examined the
nest-building behaviors of females (Eisner 1963) in response to songs with
complex or simple syntax (Okanoya & Takashima 1997) using an approach
first developed by Hinde and Steel (1976) and Kroodsma (1976). They
demonstrated that female domesticated canaries engaged in more trans-
portation of nest material when stimulated with conspecific songs than
with songs of other species, and that female canaries performed more
nest-building and laid more eggs when stimulated with large- compared
to small-repertoire songs.
I analyzed the song recordings of a male Bengalese finch and identified
four distinctive song phrases (Okanoya and Takashima 1997). The four
phrases in this bird’s song were organized such that phrases A or B were
repeated several times and phrases C or D followed this repetition, but
phrases C and D were never repeated. After phrase C or D was sung once,
phrase A or B was repeated. I designed a computer program to produce this
sequence of song phrases (complex syntax song) or one that repeated only
phrase B (simple syntax song). Phrase B contained most of the song notes
that occurred in phrases A, C, and D.
I examined three groups of four female Bengalese finches; each finch
was kept in a separate cage, and they were kept together in a sound
isolation box. The first group was stimulated with the song characterized
by the complex syntax, the second group was stimulated with the song
characterized by the simple syntax, and the third group was not stimulated
with any song. The number of nesting items carried each day was counted
and compared among the groups. Females stimulated with complex songs
carried more nesting material. We further examined whether randomly
generated note sequences were more effective than syntactically synthe-
sized ones. Females that were stimulated with random note sequences
were less responsive and carried comparable numbers of nest items
compared with females stimulated with the simple sequence. Although
452 K A Z U O O K A N O Y A
random sequences resulted in complex orderings of song notes, random-
ness did not generate the same female response as complexity produced by
syntax (Okanoya 2004b).
22.3.3.2.4 Estradiol levels
Three groups of female Bengalese finches were used in this experiment;
each group consisted of four separately caged females kept together in a
sound isolation box (Okanoya 2004b). The first group was stimulated with
the song characterized by complex syntax, the second group was stimu-
lated with the song characterized by simple syntax, and the third group
received no song stimulation. The levels of serum estradiol were compared
among the groups before and after the experiment to determine baseline
differences. Serum estradiol levels before and after the experiment were
significantly higher in females stimulated with the complex song than in
the females stimulated with the simple song or no song. Therefore, the
complex song was more effective in stimulating female Bengalese finches
into the reproductive condition.
22.3.3.3 Cross-fostering studies between the wild and
domesticated strains
Bengalese finch songs are sequentially and phonologically complex,
whereas white-rumped munia songs are simpler. To elucidate the degree
to which environmental and genetic factors contributed to these differ-
ences in song structure, I cross-fostered white-rumped munia and
Bengalese finch chicks (i.e. I used 7 pairs of Bengalese finches and 4 pairs
of white-rumped munia and exchanged some of the eggs during incuba-
tion) (Takahasi and Okanoya 2010). As a result, I obtained 7 Bengalese
finch-reared male white-rumped munias and 7 white-rumped munia-
reared male Bengalese finches. For comparison, I also examined 12
normally reared male Bengalese finches and 14 normally reared male
white-rumped munias. When the chicks had fully matured, their songs
were recorded and phonological and syntactical comparisons were per-
formed. Inspection of sonograms revealed that munia-fostered Bengalese
finches were able to learn most of the songs sung by foster fathers, but
Bengalese-fostered munias had some difficulty in learning the songs sung
by foster fathers.
22.3.3.3.1 Constraints in phonological learning
The accuracy of song-note learning was measured as the percentage of
song elements shared between the chick and the father. Detailed phono-
logical analyses revealed that the accuracy of song-note learning was
highest in white-rumped munia chicks reared by white-rumped munias
(98%) and lowest in white-rumped munia chicks cross-fostered by
Bengalese finches (82%). In contrast, Bengalese finch chicks exhibited an
intermediate degree of learning accuracy, irrespective of whether they
Birdsong for biolinguistics 453
were reared by white-rumped munias (92%) or conspecifics (94%). A two-
way ANOVA detected a significant interaction between genetic back-
ground and rearing environment, indicating that white-rumped munias
were sensitive to their rearing environments, whereas Bengalese finches
were not. These results suggested that white-rumped munias are highly
specialized to learning the phonology of their own songs, but are less
adaptable to learning the phonology of Bengalese finch songs. In contrast,
Bengalese finches are less specialized for learning the phonology of their
own strain and more able to generalize their capacities to learn the songs
sung by white-rumped munias. These findings suggested an innate bias
toward species-specific phonology in white-rumped munias that might
have been lost in Bengalese finches during domestication (Takahasi and
Okanoya 2010).
22.3.3.3.2 Constraints in syntax learning
I used the same data set to test for a learning bias for song syntax.
Similarities between the two types of song syntax were evaluated by first
expressing the two songs under study as Markovian transition matrices
(Takahasi and Okanoya 2010). In constructing these matrices, I considered
the song notes shared by the songs of both tutor and pupil, as well as the
song notes in songs sung only by tutors or only by pupils. The correlation
coefficient calculated from the nonzero elements of the two matrices was
used as an index for syntactical similarity. Using this method, I calculated
average similarities between the songs of tutor and pupil in the four cross-
fostered groups (Bengalese finches tutored by Bengalese finches, white-
rumped munias tutored by white-rumped munias, Bengalese finches
tutored by white-rumped munias, and white-rumped munias tutored by
Bengalese finches).
Consistent with the results of the phonological learning experiment, the
similarity between the songs of tutors and pupils was highest for white-
rumped munias tutored by white-rumped munias (0.91) and lowest for
white-rumped munias tutored by Bengalese finches (0.70). The similarities
of Bengalese finches tutored by Bengalese finches (0.82) or by white-
rumped munias (0.75) were intermediate in comparison to the two more
extreme cases. Thus, when learning to sequence song elements, white-
rumped munias were biased toward learning the linear syntax associated
with their own strain and were far less adept at learning the complex
syntax associated with Bengalese finches. These results supported my
previous conclusion that white-rumped munias might have an innate
bias for learning species-specific syntax and that this bias might have
disappeared in Bengalese finches during domestication.
22.3.3.4 Field studies of wild white-rumped munia populations
I assumed that songs were kept simple in wild white-rumped munias
because of specific pressures in the wild. Singing loud, complex songs in
454 K A Z U O O K A N O Y A
the wild is costly for at least three reasons. First, such songs attract pred-
ators. Second, they draw on cognitive resources necessary for reacting to
dangers, including predation. Third, the evolution and maintenance of the
brain mechanisms underlying complex songs are costly. I began my
fieldwork in Taiwan (Republic of China) to examine these hypotheses.
However, the observation of predation in the wild is very rare, and this
strategy did not allow for quantitative assessment of the hypotheses.
I examined the factors that might have accounted for the loss of the
innate bias in Bengalese finches with regard to learning songs. One reason
for the loss of this bias might involve an important function served by
songs in the wild. Before a song can function as a mating signal to attract
conspecific females, the singer must be identified as conspecific by the
female. Toward this end, the song should possess species-specific charac-
teristics. This function might degenerate as an identifying mechanism in
a domestic environment because birds are paired by humans in these
settings and thus do not need to seek mates on their own.
Several field studies might support this hypothesis. In the wild, white-
rumped munias co-exist with various sympatric species, including spot-
ted munias. A strong innate bias toward conspecific phonology should be
adaptive for species of munia in avoiding futile attempts at hybridiza-
tion. In contrast, Bengalese finches are domesticated and have been
subject to controlled breeding. In such an environment, a species-specific
bias would be neutral and might rapidly degenerate, perhaps allowing
Bengalese finches to gain a more general ability to learn a wide-ranged
phonology.
Preliminary data exist on the relationship between the degree of colony-
mixing (with spotted munia) and song linearity in wild populations of
white-rumped munia (Kagawa et al. 2012). When the level of heterogeneity
in the colony was higher, the songs of white-rumped munia were more
linear and exhibited less variable phonology. This might indicate that
when more sympatric birds are present, species of munia must exaggerate
their species-specific characteristics through their songs.
22.3.3.5 Discussion
I described acoustical and syntactical differences between wild white-
rumped munias and Bengalese finches, female responses to song complex-
ity, effects of cross-fostering, and fieldwork results to identify geographic
variations in songs. Integrating these findings, I can now suggest a testable
scenario for song evolution in Bengalese finches.
22.3.3.5.1 Domestication and sexual selection
The cross-fostering study revealed that white-rumped munias had a
narrowly tuned learning mechanism for strain-specific phonology,
whereas Bengalese finches had a more broadly tuned but less accurate
learning mechanism. This finding should be considered in light of the
Birdsong for biolinguistics 455
results of this fieldwork, which showed that higher sympatric ratios were
associated with lower levels of song complexity.
Birdsong must initially operate as a species-identifier, and then it can
function for sexual selection. In this regard, songs do not need to function
as species markers in the absence of sympatric, closely related species. In
environments characterized by the latter, however, songs should serve a
sexual purpose. Domestication represents a special case in which no
sympatric species exist. Because Bengalese finches no longer need to
identify their species, they might have gradually lost the bias toward
learning and producing species-specific characteristics in their songs. As
a result of broadening the species-specific filter, Bengalese finches might
have developed the ability to produce phonologically and syntactically
complex songs. In this sense, song complexity might have arisen from a
loss of species-specific bias rather than representing a gain in general
learnability. Once constraints are weakened, female preferences might
reinforce this tendency toward more complex songs. Indeed, male songs
can be complex in syntactical and phonological domains to satisfy
females’ preference for variations.
22.3.3.5.2 A scenario for the evolution of song complexity
Based on the experimental results reviewed in this chapter, I suggest
several steps that might underlie the evolution of complex song syntax
in the Bengalese finch. In most estrildid finches, songs are used solely for
the purpose of mating and not in male-to-male interactions. Thus, sexual
selection is likely to have enhanced those song properties on which
females base their choices, resulting in traits that are handicaps in
the wild environment (Darwin 1871; Zahavi 1975). The following is one
possible scenario that might explain the emergence of finite-state syntax
in the Bengalese finch.
Complexity in song-note transitions became a sexually selected trait in
white-rumped munias and was subject to individual variations due to
genetic differences in neural capabilities and cultural differences in song
traditions. However, the wild environment restricted the degree of possi-
ble song complexity in white-rumped munias due to the various costs
associated with the maintenance of such traits, possibly including preda-
tion costs, foraging time, immunological costs associated with the produc-
tion of testosterone, and metabolic costs associated with maintaining
sufficient brain capacity to underpin the song system. Furthermore,
songs needed to identify species in the wild, requiring that songs avoid
phonological and syntactical complexity. Thus, mutations leading to
greater song complexity would not have become fixed in a population of
wild white-rumped munias, especially when sympatric species were living
near them.
However, domestication eliminated many of these potential costs,
especially those associated with predation and foraging time. Thus,
456 K A Z U O O K A N O Y A
domestication relaxed the restrictions imposed on the evolution of song
complexity (Okanoya 2002; Ritchie and Kirby 2007). Furthermore, it
reduced the necessity for identifying members of the species via song.
Therefore, mutations leading to song complexity through the loss of a
rigid song structure were not fixed in the natural environment and were
not eliminated in the domesticated environment. Changes in brain
structure then allowed more elaborate songs to be learned and gave rise
to the improvization of song syntax. Genes that allowed for the learning of
complex songs were selected because of the preferences of females.
22.3.3.5.3 Conclusion
Additional evidence is necessary to reinforce the above scenario. We need
fieldwork data from a wider variety of geographical locations with differ-
ent sympatric ratios. Data supporting female preferences for complexity
should be examined at different levels of female receptivity, including
approach, preference, acceptance, breeding behavior, breeding effort,
and maternal effects (Soma et al. 2007). In the context of such reservations,
I propose that explanations of the emergence of human language might
benefit from observations of distantly related species, such as Bengalese
finches (Deacon 2010).
22.4 General conclusion
Learning about birdsong is desirable because we believe that birdsong can
be an excellent model in which to study biolinguistic inquiries. When we
say A is a model for B, then A should provide at least analogical insights
into the study of B when direct study of B is not possible because of cost,
effort, the degree of technological advancement, the status of current
knowledge, or ethical issues. Having reviewed the basics of birdsong and
recent advancements in birdsong studies, our task is now to examine
whether birdsong research may provide useful insights into biolinguistics.
To examine this issue, I have established the following three assertions
and examine each of these assertions in turn.
22.4.1 Birdsong is a possible model for the language
evolutionary process
The premise has been held that language is so unique to us humans that no
other biological system can possibly model the process of emergence and
evolution of language. Of course, any system cannot be a model for any
other system unless we assume a certain level of abstraction. In this
regard, our research on wild white-rumped munias (Kagawa et al. 2012)
has pointed to certain similarities in the evolutionary mechanisms of
language, i.e. constrained and relaxed selection processes (Deacon 2010).
Birdsong for biolinguistics 457
The strength of the birdsong system as a model of language evolution is
that birdsong is learned, has social functions, and depends on certain
innate knowledge to acquire it (Bolhuis et al. 2010). No system other than
language itself seems to possess these characteristics.
22.4.2 Birdsong is an excellent model for vocal learning
Vocal learning, the ability to imitate a novel sound pattern, is a unique trait
that is observed only in limited groups of animals, including birds, whales,
bats, and elephants (Jarvis 2006). Homo sapiens sapiens is the only species of
primate that obviously shows this trait (Braaten, Petzoldt, and Cybenko
2007; Jarvis 2006). One of the underlying anatomical features that differ-
entiates vocal learners from non-learners is the direct cortex-to-medullar
pathway for voluntary vocal control (Jurgens 2002). This pathway is clearly
identified in songbirds, but not in non-passerines, and it is abundant in
humans, but not in non-human primates. By this direct path, one can
voluntarily regulate respiration and emit vocalizations that are not con-
strained to a specific behavioral situation (Deacon 1997). This pathway
also allows modifications of innately programmed vocal gestures.
The cortex-to-medullar tract for voluntary vocalizations is but one of the
several requirements for vocal learning. In addition, a system that enables
matching between auditory and vocal information is crucial in establish-
ing vocal mimicry. Mirror neurons are a class of motor neurons that are
activated when the animal sees others doing the same action (Rizzolatti
and Craighero 2004). A similar class of neurons for the auditory–vocal
domain was found in the HVC of songbirds (Prather et al. 2008). These
neurons show similar activity when the bird sings a particular song and
when the same bird hears the same song. The HVC neurons can thus
transform auditory patterns into motor gestures. The detailed mecha-
nisms for this sensorimotor translation are not yet known, but a search
for such mechanisms would be indispensable to understanding the human
speech mirror system.
Taken together, birdsong provides basic mechanisms shared with
human speech at two levels: corticobulbar connections for vocal plasticity
and cortical mirror neurons for sensorimotor matching. In addition to
these, we should also note the similarity in molecular mechanisms of
birdsong and human speech, notably the FoxP2 gene. Mutation of this
gene resulted in language impairments in a specific family, and expression
of this gene is pronounced during the sensorimotor learning phase in
songbirds. Thus, birdsong should be a useful model for vocal learning.
22.4.3 Birdsong is a simple model for a subset of human syntax
I reviewed evidence that sequential structures in birdsong can be consid-
ered finite-state syntax and supplied behavioral and neural descriptions to
458 K A Z U O O K A N O Y A
reinforce this assertion. I also reviewed the neural mechanisms underlying
chunking and branching, both necessary mechanisms to support finite-
state syntax. The remaining point is whether the finite-state syntax can be
considered a simple form of human syntax versus having no relationship
with any aspects of human syntax. Here, an important assay would be
locating the exact level of the Chomsky hierarchy of birdsong because that
would tell us whether birdsong is too distant from human syntax.
Berwick et al. used the concept of sub-regular language (Rogers et al.
2010) in analysing birdsong syntax (Berwick et al. 2011). They found that
Bengalese finch songs and nightingale songs are at least more complex
than a simple bigram, requiring us to consider more than just adjacent
relationships between song elements (not strictly locally testable with
window widths of two). One of the reasons why birdsong stays at this
rather simple level might be related to its lack of semantics. This means
that chunks in birdsong cannot be represented by labels or heads,
disabling further hierarchical treatment of the chunks. A more proper
linguistic level with which to compare birdsong is not sentence syntax,
but construction of syllable phonology; finite-state syntax is enough for
that purpose (Johnson 1972). Birdsong syntax therefore should more
correctly be identified as phonological syntax as Marler (2000) suggested.
Despite the simplicity of birdsong phonological syntax, it requires at
least a memory storage, a branching mechanism, and a chunking mecha-
nism to construct the level of complexity birdsong shows. Birdsong should
therefore remain an indispensable biological model with which to study
brain mechanisms for human syntax (Bolhuis et al. 2010)
Birdsong for biolinguistics 459
23
Language, culture, and
computation: An adaptive
systems approach to
biolinguistics
Simon Kirby
23.1 Introduction: Why is language the way it is?
A common response to the very idea of a scientific approach to the origins
and evolution of language is bewilderment about how it is even possible.
How can we study the emergence of a trait that is apparently unique to a
single species, and leaves no first-hand fossil remains? There are, of course,
many answers to this question. For example, it is becoming increasingly
clear that there is a lot that we can actually learn from homologies and
convergent evolution in other species if we conceive of the faculty of
language in a broad perspective (Hauser, Chomsky, and Fitch 2002), and
techniques from fields such as genetics provide new sources of data on the
origins of features of our species-unique capacities (Fisher and Marcus
2006). In this chapter, I will survey another approach that has become
particularly important in evolutionary linguistics, which arose out of a
concern with the challenge of finding a scientific methodology for lan-
guage evolution: computational modeling. Although our story begins from
a purely methodological perspective, it ends with a new way of thinking
about the role of cultural transmission in an explanatory biolinguistics.
Before setting out, it is worth being clear about what the goal is for an
evolutionary approach to language. On the one hand, we might be inter-
ested in an “evolutionary story” for humans that involves language.
Although this is a significant topic of interest to many in the field it is
not our main target here. Rather, we are interested in the fundamental
explanatory challenge for linguistics: explaining why language has the
particular structural properties that it does, and not some other possible
set. The evolutionary approach to this challenge is one that attempts to
explain universal properties of language as arising from the complex
adaptive systems that underpin it.
Complex systems whose behavior emerges out of a multitude of inter-
actions between large numbers of simple elements are notoriously resist-
ant to reliable intuitions. For example, it is not immediately obvious why
the interactions between individual drivers can, in certain circumstances,
cause a traffic jam; or why sudden avalanches down the side of a sand-pile
should follow power laws (e.g. Bak, Tang, and Wiesenfeld 1988). In order to
understand and make reliable predictions about these kinds of systems,
we need models that make explicit the role of individual elements, and the
interactions between these elements. Computer simulation in particular is
a valuable modeling methodology in these cases because once we have a
model of the individual (be it a car driver, or a grain of sand) then it is a
relatively simple matter to create a population of such individuals and
then run virtual “experiments” on that population.
The motivation behind much computer simulation in biolinguistics is
the belief that language, like the traffic jam, exhibits the properties it
does because of the interaction between many individuals. Furthermore,
the observed structural properties of language are believed to be emer-
gent, in the sense that it may not be possible to simply read-off the
universal structure of language from the shared properties of individuals.
In this sense, the methodology of computer simulation provides an alter-
native approach to the more familiar Chomskyan idealization of the
“ideal speaker-listener, in a completely homogenous speech community”
(Chomsky 1965). Rather than abstract away details about population
structure or patterns of interaction, computational modellers will typi-
cally retain these complexities, but come up with simplifying idealiza-
tions about the properties of the individual or the details of linguistic
structure. It is important to realize that these different choices in creating
models of language are complementary, and it would be a mistake to
think that one were right and the other wrong. A complete theory of the
evolution of language will require a suite of models, each with simplify-
ing idealizations, and each illuminating a different aspect of the processes
that give rise to the universal structural properties of language.
In this chapter, I will not attempt a complete review of the literature on
the computational simulation of language evolution (see, e.g., Jaeger et al.
2009; Steels 2003; Kirby 2003; Cangelosi and Parisi 2002, for more com-
prehensive reviews). In particular, I won’t touch on any of the impressive
work looking at the evolution of phonological systems (e.g. de Boer 2001;
Oudeyer 2006) or grounding of models in physical robots (e.g. Steels 2010),
nor will the focus be on formal mathematical models of language change
and evolution (e.g. Niyogi 2006). Instead, I will work through a handful of
case studies briefly that take us from the biological evolution of innate
signaling, through the cultural transmission of vocabularies, and the
emergence of simple syntactic structure, to co-evolutionary models that
consider the interaction between learning, culture, and biological evolu-
tion along with its implications for innateness.
Language, culture, and computation 461
23.2 The evolution of simple innate signaling
Our first example of a computational simulation is not actually linguistic at
all, but nevertheless it provides a nice foundation for the later models we’ll
be looking at. Oliphant (1996) considers what selection pressures need to be
in place for reliable innate signaling to evolve. Simplifying drastically, we
can consider this to be akin to the signaling we see in the alarm calls of many
species (e.g. the vervet monkeys, Cheney and Seyfarth 1990).1
Oliphant sets out an extremely simple model of an individual with an
innate mapping between signals and meaning, which he glosses as “observ-
able behaviours” and “environmental states/responses to those states”
respectively. This simulated individual, called an agent in the modeling liter-
ature, has a set of genes that specify which observable behavior an agent will
produce in a particular environmental state and which response an agent
will give when it observes a particular behavior in another. To put it another
way, these genes specify two mappings for each agent: one from meanings to
signals, and another from signals to meanings.
Specifically, the genome of each agent is an ordered string of signals that
the agent can produce (one for each meaning), and an ordered string of
meanings (one for each signal). These genes specify a transmission func-
tion for sending signals, and a reception function for understanding them.
The agents play a series of communication games in which one agent
chooses a random meaning to produce and another tries to decode that
signal back into a meaning.
The genes of each generation of agents can be passed on to their off-
spring, possibly with some mutations. In combination with a procedure
for differentially selecting some agents and not others for reproduction on
the basis of success at the communication game, this model thus imple-
ments a simple process of biological evolution by natural selection for
signaling systems. The key question Oliphant asks is: under what conditions
does optimal signaling evolve?
The answer, it turns out, depends on two key parameters of the simu-
lation: precisely how agents are rewarded with greater chances of repro-
duction on the basis of communication; and how agents are selected to
become partners in a communication game.
Let’s consider the first of these. In a single interaction in Oliphant’s
model, an agent is chosen to be the sender of a signal and a second agent
is chosen to be the receiver. The success of the interaction depends on the
meaning for which the sender produced the signal being the same as the
meaning the receiver understands that signal to correspond to. In the case
of success, who should benefit?
There are two obvious possibilities that Oliphant considers. Firstly, we
could imagine that only the receiver benefits from successful communica-
tion (in the scenario of the alarm calls, this seems plausible). In this case, for
462 S I M O N K I R B Y
every successful interaction, the receiving agent scores a point. After some
number of interactions, the agents with the higher scores are selected to
pass on their genes (with a chance of mutation) to a new generation of
agents. Oliphant shows that with the simulation set up in this way, the
average scores of the population do not increase over generations, despite
the fact that agents are being selected on the basis of those scores.
Specifically, optimal communication does not evolve. The signals that are
used by the population do not reliably discriminate between meanings.
What has happened here? The issue is a familiar one to researchers
looking at the evolution of altruism. If only receivers benefit from an
interaction, there is nothing providing differential fitness advantage to
the genes providing good production behavior, and this is required for
optimal signaling to evolve. This is confirmed by Oliphant’s second simu-
lation, in which he gives a point to both sender and receiver for each
successful interaction. In this case, optimal signaling evolves. In other
words, the population share distinct signals for each meaning.
The other parameter Oliphant looks at is how agents are picked to take
part in an interaction. For the results described above, the sender and
receiver are picked randomly from the population, but an alternative is
to imagine the population being organized spatially with two agents being
picked to engage in an interaction if they are close together. Surprisingly,
if the population has spatial structure, optimal signaling can evolve even
when only receivers benefit from successful interactions.
This result demonstrates the way in which simulations can reveal
important factors in the evolution of emergent behaviors that we might
not otherwise expect purely from intuitive introspection about theories.
In this case, the spatial structure of the population gives rise to a form of
kin selection (Hamilton 1964). Altruistic signaling behavior can evolve
because the recipients are likely to share genes with the sender by virtue
of being born close to those that share recent ancestors.2
23.3 Learning simple signal systems
In the previous section, we looked at a model of the evolution of signal
systems. Even with a very simple model, we were able to make interesting
and potentially relevant observations about the importance of structure in
populations on the likelihood of the emergence of communication.
However, these kinds of results have limited relevance for linguistics
because the communication system is entirely innate, leaving no role at
all for learning. Whilst this may be a reasonable first approximation for
much animal communication, it is clear that one of the strikingly unusual
features of human communication is the extent to which the details of a
particular language are acquired through observation of the language
being used by others.
Language, culture, and computation 463
What we need, therefore, is a way of extending Oliphant’s model to
capture learning within the lifetime of the agents. Smith (2002) does just
this. Rather than treat the signal system of an agent as a genome encoding
specific signals to produce for each meaning and specific meanings to
understand for each signal received, Smith collapses sending and receiving
into a single matrix of weights. The weights record the strength of associ-
ation between signals and meanings. A typical matrix is shown below:
1 1 3
0 2 1
4 0 2
Here, the rows correspond to meanings and the columns to signals. Given a
matrix like this, the agents need a procedure for generating a signal given a
meaning, and vice versa. The simplest procedure, and the one Smith (2002)
uses, is called winner take all. In production of a particular meaning, the
signal with the highest weight on that row is generated (if there is a tie for
highest weight, one is chosen randomly from the winners). Similarly, in
reception, the meaning is chosen that corresponds to the highest weight in
the column for the received signal.
So, an agent with our example matrix will produce (and understand) the
following language:
m1 ↔ s3
m2 ↔ s2
m3 ↔ s1
This language turns out to be optimal assuming a population of agents that
all possess it, because the set of signals differentiates unambiguously
between meanings.
Given this model of the representation of meaning–signal mappings, an
obvious question arises: how does an agent come to acquire the particular
set of weights that characterize a language? Smith (2002) makes the
simplifying assumption that learners are exposed to meaning–signal
pairs, although clearly the real situation is not as clear cut as this and in
real language acquisition considerable inference needs to take place for
learners to extract meanings from context (A. Smith 2005). Given a set of
meaning–signal pairs, the model must take a matrix whose weights are
initially all zeros and adjust those weights in such a way that ensures the
agent adapts its behavior to fit the signaling system it is exposed to.
There are a number of reasonable ways in which the weights in the
matrix could be adjusted. Perhaps the most obvious algorithm results in a
weight being incremented by one every time its corresponding meaning
and signal are seen together in the input. In this case, the matrix ends up
being a frequency table for the language with each cell recording the
464 S I M O N K I R B Y
number of co-occurrences of signal and meaning. Alternative methods
include those that additionally reduce the weights between the observed
signal and incorrect meanings, and between the observed meaning and
incorrect signals – a process called lateral inhibition.
Smith explores a large space of possible algorithms for updating an
agent’s matrix, and finds that there are many different ones that are cap-
able of successfully acquiring an optimal signaling system. The intriguing
question is whether there are any important differences between these
different algorithms, or whether they are all equivalent. In order to answer
this question, we need to move beyond individual learning to consider the
effects of the interactions between learners in a population context.
23.4 Iterated learning
When considering the validity of a particular model of learning, a typical
approach is to test the efficacy of that learning model on a data set that
tests the relevant feature of language being investigated. Even with the
extremely simple model we discussed in the previous section – akin
merely to a lexicon of fixed size – this is the strategy that was employed.
Different ways of updating weights in the lexical matrix were tested
against a data set drawn from an optimal pairing of meanings and signals.
In this case, optimal simply means unambiguous, or in the lexical sense,
having no homonymy.
However, when we are considering evolution, it is reasonable to ask
where this language that we are testing the agents with comes from. For
the evolutionary simulations of Oliphant (1996) and others (e.g., Noble
1999), the answer is clear: it is the result of evolution by natural selection
of the genes encoding the mapping between meanings and signals. But for
our learners, this can’t be the case, because they are born not knowing
which signals pair with which meanings.
The answer is that the language must come from other agents. We acquire
language by observing utterances produced by other individuals who
acquired language in the same way. In other words, the language we speak
is the result of a process not just of learning in one generation, but a repeated
cycle of learning and production over multiple generations (Hurford
1990). We call this process iterated learning (Kirby 2001; Kirby and Hurford
2002; Brighton, Smith, and Kirby 2005; Griffiths and Kalish 2007):
Iterated learning: a behavior is the result of iterated learning if it is
acquired by observation of that behavior in an indi-
vidual who themselves acquired the behavior in the
same way.
Simulations of iterated learning focus on the social coordination of
language among agents in a population, and the cultural transmission
Language, culture, and computation 465
of that language over generations, rather than the biological evolution
of the genes that underpin agents’ behavior. The key motivating ques-
tion is this: what is the relationship between the model of learning, and the
outcome in terms of behavior of agents with that model of learning interacting
in a population?
In terms of Smith’s (2002) model, he runs a number of simulations
where a population of learners with a particular method of updating the
weights in their lexical matrix learn from the utterances produced by the
previous generation of agents. The basic setup of the population model is
set out in Figure 23.1, although there are many other alternatives that
could be considered (see e.g. Scott-Phillips and Kirby 2010, for an overview
of different possibilities for modeling populations). In these simulations,
the agents all have identical learning algorithms (for example, the fre-
quency counting method outlined above), and are all born with no knowl-
edge of language. The population can be initialized with a particular
language (or no language at all) and then the process of cultural trans-
mission by iterated learning can be left to run. Each agent learns from a
sample of meaning–signal pairs produced by existing agents in the popu-
lation and then joins the population when an older agent is removed. The
new agents will eventually be called on to produce their own meaning–
signal pairs for the next generation, and so on.
Using this iterated learning model, Smith returns to the consideration of
different learning algorithms. Despite appearing equally capable of acquir-
ing an optimal system, is their behavior different when considering the
evolution of such systems?
Smith finds very distinct behaviors when a learning algorithm is iterated
in this way. He defines a hierarchy of three types:
Acquisition: a learning algorithm is capable of acquisition if it can
learn an optimal system.
Maintenance: a learning algorithm that is capable of acquisition is also
capable of maintenance if a population of such learners
can maintain an optimal system over generations in the
presence of some noise on transmission.
1
2
4
3
Figure 23.1 Smith’s (2002) populations model. Adult agents shown as ﬁlled circles, a child
agent shown as white circle. 1. Adults produce utterances. 2. Child learns from the utterances.
3. One adult is chosen at random and is removed from the population. 4. Child is added to the
population as a new adult. The sequence then repeats with a new child.
466 S I M O N K I R B Y
Construction: a learning algorithm that is capable of maintenance is
also capable of construction if a population of such
learners can create an optimal system over generations
from a random starting condition.
The frequency-counting method for acquiring a lexical matrix turns out to
be capable only of acquisition. In the presence of noise, errors creep into
the language which introduce ambiguity and lead to the eventual collapse
of an optimal system for communication. On the other hand, methods that
introduce lateral inhibition can eventually construct an optimal system in
a population over generations through cultural evolution even from an
initial state where every agent is simply producing signals at random.
Although what we see in these models is simply the cultural evolution of
a lexicon – hardly a satisfactory model of language in all its complexity –
the implications are nevertheless quite general. Each of the learning pro-
cedures for updating the lexical matrix that we might come up with
represents a different hypothesis regarding the nature of the human
language faculty. Several of these hypotheses prove perfectly adequate in
terms of acquiring the target. If all we are concerned with as biolinguists is
constructing a model of our biological endowment that can account for
our ability to acquire language then we might mistakenly accept a hypoth-
esis that is too low on Smith’s hierarchy. We can appear to explain how
humans acquire language, without giving any plausible answer to how a
structured language is maintained over generations or is constructed in a
population in the first place. In other words, in order to have a complete
picture of the biological foundations for language, we need to consider the
process of cultural evolution, and specifically how different learning
mechanisms influence the emergence of structure in a population of
individuals through iterated learning.
23.5 The emergence of compositionality
Results like those described in the previous section have convinced compu-
tational modellers of the value of considering the interaction between
individual learning and the cultural transmission of behavior in populations
in explanation of the origins of linguistic behavior. Nevertheless, it is clear
that much of what is interesting about human language as a natural phe-
nomenon cannot be satisfyingly explored if we restrict ourselves to model-
ing lexical matrices. We need to move beyond models that treat signals and
meanings as atomic entities in order that we can consider what happens
when signals and meanings have internal structure. In this way, we can start
to look at phenomena that might be described as syntactic.
The general approach that the field of computational modeling takes is
one of stepwise refinement of previous models, with each change adding
Language, culture, and computation 467
the minimum possible to extend the explanatory reach of what has gone
before. In other words, at every stage, there is a tendency among modelers in
this area to try and keep models as simple as possible (see Di Paolo, Noble,
and Bullock 2000, for further discussion of the methodology of computa-
tional simulation of living systems in general). This often leads to puzzle-
ment among linguists at the choices that modelers make. Typically, the
central desideratum of linguists is coverage of data, and as discussed in
the introduction, this leads to particular kinds of idealizations in the theo-
ries constructed. For the modeler simulating the evolution of language, the
motivation is rather to try and understand the ways in which complex
systems interact and how this might impact on the structure of language
in the abstract first in order to construct general theories that may be
applied eventually to explain language data. As such, the approach is rarely
to try and build a model that looks exactly like the real thing – even if this
were practically possible, it isn’t obvious that we would be left with a clearer
understanding. Emergent phenomena in a complex simulated system may
end up just as mysterious as emergent phenomena in the real world.
The move from a simulation of language as a mapping between atomic
signals and atomic meanings to one where we can start to talk about
syntax, is just such a small, stepwise modification. By treating signals as
sequences of symbols, and meanings as feature structures (for example),
we can start to ask questions about the precise nature of the mappings
between these two structured spaces. By doing this, we are not necessarily
saying that this is the best representation of signals, nor especially the best
representation of meaning, but rather we can consider the impact that
introduction of some kind of structure has on the dynamics of iterated
learning.
A number of papers have looked at precisely this kind of problem
(e.g. Batali 1998; Hurford 2000; Batali 2002; Kirby 2001), but here we will
focus on one particular model by Brighton (2002). This model considers the
class of finite state transducers that map between strings and simple
feature vectors. This can be thought of as a minimal extension to the
lexical model. Clearly, such a model cannot deal with the full complexity
of human language, not least because it considers only finite state lan-
guages. Nevertheless it is interesting to see what phenomena even a
simple addition like this will do to the dynamics of cultural transmission.
Brighton uses a standard technique in machine learning called
Minimum Description Length (MDL) learning (Li and Vitanyi 1997) to
model an agent’s strategy for acquiring a language from examples of
string–meaning pairs. Given a set of utterances like the ones shown in
Figure 23.2(a), the first step is to construct a transducer that accounts for
these, and only these, examples (see Figure 23.2(b)). This grammar clearly
fits the data very well, but has the problem that it is overly specific, and
cannot generalize. MDL treats the learning problem as one of finding a
trade-off between fit to data and generality.
468 S I M O N K I R B Y
A key observation is that smaller grammars will tend to be more general.
In other words, an important quantity to consider when thinking about
learning is the amount of space the representation of a grammar takes up.
Equally, we can think of the amount of space taken up by a representation
of the data that the learner is exposed to. This can change depending on
what grammar we have, because the grammar itself can be used to encode
the data. So, for example, the kind of maximally specific grammar that
Brighton’s learner constructs as a first step encodes the data very effi-
ciently. We can essentially reconstruct the data heard exactly simply by
generating all the string–meaning mappings allowed by the grammar. We
say the coding length of the data given the grammar is minimized by this
transducer. On the other hand, the coding length of the grammar itself is
very large.
In Brighton’s model, learning proceeds by looking for ways to compress
the grammar, for example by merging nodes in the transducer. By doing
this, the coding length of the grammar decreases, but the coding length of
the data might increase, because the precise data that the learner has
heard might not be specified explicitly by the grammar itself, and so
extra information is needed to reconstruct it. Using the principles of
MDL learning, many possible compressions of the original grammar are
considered in terms of the sum of the coding length of the grammar and
the coding length of the data given that grammar. The target grammar is
the one that minimizes this sum and hence considers both generality and
fit to data (see Figure 23.2(c)(d)).
We now have the necessary machinery to consider a simple extension of
the lexicon-only model to tackle the origin of one of the fundamental
design features of language: compositionality (i.e. the fact that the mean-
ing of utterances is typically composed from the meaning of parts of those
utterances). It is a rather surprising fact that out of the huge variety of
communication systems in nature, there are none that utilize composi-
tionality as part of a learned mapping between meanings and signals. This
is surprising because it is precisely this feature that gives language its
open-ended expressivity. It is such an obviously reasonable way in which
to construct a signaling system, enabling individuals to construct a wide
range of messages having only learned a much smaller set of more basic
elements, that it is rather mysterious why we do not see it elsewhere in
nature.
Given its uniqueness to human language, and its apparent adaptive bene-
fits, the evolution of compositionality is an important topic for evolutionary
linguistics (see, for example, Wray 1998 for a theory of language evolution
that places the transition to compositionality at its heart, and subsequent
debates about “holistic protolanguage,” Tallerman 2007; Smith 2008). In
the context of Brighton’s model, the learner can acquire a compositional
mapping between meanings and strings (as in Figure 23.2), and it can
also acquire quite straightforwardly a “holistic,” non-compositional one.
Language, culture, and computation 469
The question is whether there is something about iterated learning that
will lead a population of learners like this one to construct a compositional
language from scratch.
To test this, Brighton gives his agents an ability to “invent” random
strings for meanings that cannot be expressed by an agent’s current gram-
mar, and then places them in a simple iterated learning setup whereby
each agent is called upon to produce strings for a randomly selected sub-
sample of meanings. These meaning–string pairs are then the training
data for a new agent and the cycle repeats.
By virtue of the random invention mechanism, the first languages are
inevitably non-compositional and unstructured. Because of this, the
expressivity of the language is limited in the early stages. In other words,
agents’ grammars typically only express the meanings that agents are
exposed to – there is no generalization to novel items. However, over a
number of generations, this gradually changes. Structure appears in the
mapping between meanings and strings and compositionality emerges.
a
/
{
1
2
2
}
a
/
{
1
1
2
}
c{1 1 1}
c{2 1 1}
e{2
1
1}
c{1 1 2}
b{2 1 1}
d{2 2 2}
d{1 2 1}
d/{1 2 2}
a
/
{
1
2
1
}
e
/
{
1
2
1
}
f/{2 2 2}
b/{2 2 2}
a
/
{
1
1
1
}
e
/
{
1
1
1
}
f
/
{
1
1
2
f
/
{
1
2
2
}
a/{1 ? ?}
d/{? 2 ?} f/{? ? 2}
e/{? ? 1}
c/{? 1 ?}
b/{2 ? ?}
Lcomp = {({1,2,2}, adf), ({1,1,1}, ace), ({2,2,2}, bdf),
({2,1,1}, bce), ({1,2,1}, ade), ({1,1,2}, acf)}
L comp = {({1,2,2}, adf), ({1,1,1}, ace), ({2,2,2}, bdf), ({2,1,1}, bce),
({1,2,1}, ade), ({1,1,2}, acf), ({2,1,2}, bcf), ({2,2,1), bde)}.
+
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Figure 23.2 How a language can be compressed in such a way as to optimally trade off ﬁt to
data and generality using MDL. A toy compositional language is shown in (a). Here, meanings
are simply triples of numbers and strings are triples of characters. This language is composi-
tional because there is a one-to-one correspondence between numbers and characters. The
transducer in (b) expresses this language precisely (i.e. with no generalization to novel string–
meaning pairs). The transducer in (c) is the result of compression guided by the MDL
algorithm. In this transducer, wild-cards in meanings are expressed using “?.” This transducer
generates a slightly larger compositional language shown in (d). Figure adapted from
Brighton, Smith, and Kirby (2005).
470 S I M O N K I R B Y
Eventually the languages are maximally expressive, and agents can reliably
produce the same string as their “parents” for all meanings, even if they
were not exposed to them during training. (See Figure 23.3 for an example
of the evolution of grammars in this system.)
So, what we are seeing is a gradual evolution, purely through cultural
transmission by iterated learning, of a holistic protolanguage to a composi-
tional one. The result is a language that learners can reliably generalize
from a sub-sample. It turns out that this generalization from a sub-sample
is not merely a result of the evolution of structure in the model, but actually
the cause of it. Brighton (2002) demonstrates this by varying the amount of
data a learner sees in the iterated learning model, while retaining the same
meaning space size. He argues that the limitations placed on the amount of
data a learner is exposed to (one form of stimulus poverty, Zuidema 2003)
acts as a bottleneck on cultural transmission. The tighter this bottleneck,
the more pressure there is on language to adapt so that it can pass
unscathed from one generation to the next. With a wide bottleneck
(many data items for the learner), languages remain random, unstruc-
tured, holistic mappings between meanings and signals. It is only as the
bottleneck narrows that compositional structure emerges.
The very fact that languages are transmitted by iterated learning under
conditions of stimulus poverty leads to the emergence of structure as an
Figure 23.3 An example of the evolution of grammars in Brighton’s simulation, numbers
indicate the generation in the simulation the grammar is taken from. Over time, languages
become more and more compressible and consequently more learnable and more struc-
tured. Figure adapted from Brighton, Smith, and Kirby (2005).
Language, culture, and computation 471
adaptation that maximizes transmission fidelity. Hurford (2000) expresses
this pithily with the maxim that “social transmission favours linguistic
generalization.” Note that this perspective sees compositionality as an
adaptation, but not one that arises from biological evolution. At every
stage, the agents in Brighton’s simulations are identical at “birth.” All
that changes here are the languages in the simulation. The particular
structures that emerge depend on what might reasonably be termed envi-
ronmental conditions that impinge on the language itself (such as the
number of utterances an agent is exposed to), and it is the language itself
that adapts to those conditions. Languages adapt to maximize their trans-
missibility, and they do so by innovating structural properties such as
compositionality that leverage structure in meanings in order to increase
learnability.
Since the publication of Brighton’s simulations, and others that con-
verge on the same results with strikingly different assumptions (e.g., Batali
1998; Hurford 2000; Batali 2002; Kirby 2001), the emergence of composi-
tionality through iterated learning has also been demonstrated in human
participants (Kirby, Cornish, and Smith 2008, and Scott-Phillips and Kirby
2010, for review). This shows the generality of the basic idea of structure as
an adaptation to transmissability.
23.6 Interactions between learning, culture, and evolution
One of the most challenging aspects of language from an evolutionary
perspective is the unique degree to which it is the result of not just one
complex adaptive system, but three – all of which interact at various
timescales (see Figure 23.4). We have already seen the importance of
looking not only at individual learning, but also how the particular nature
of the learner results in different dynamics at the population level through
Learning biases drive
linguistic evolution
Individual
learning
Cultural
transmission Language
Linguistic structure
changes fitness
landscape
Evolution determines
learning mechanisms
Biological
evolution
Figure 23.4 The three complex adaptive systems that underpin language, and their inter-
actions. From Christiansen and Kirby (2003b).
472 S I M O N K I R B Y
cultural transmission. We have also seen that the cultural process can
deliver up adaptive structure that previously we may have suspected
could only be explained through biological evolution by natural selection.
Does this leave biological evolution out in the cold, with no part to play
in the explanation of why languages are the way they are? Not necessarily.
After all, the particular learning mechanisms that we bring to bear on the
task of acquiring language are assuredly part of our biology. The key
questions to ask about this aspect of the biology of language are: what is
the nature of our biological endowment that relates to language learning?
and to what extent is this endowment specific to language? These ques-
tions essentially define the biolinguistics enterprise, and their answer
depends on an understanding of the relationships between learning, cul-
tural transmission, and biological evolution.
Since the early days of computational modeling, as a result of simulations
of the interaction between learning and evolution (Hinton and Nowlan,
1987), a number of scholars have suggested that a relatively obscure mech-
anism from the evolutionary literature is implicated in language evolution:
the so-called Baldwin Effect (see Belew and Mitchell 1996 for review). For
example, Jackendoff (2002: 237) has remarked on the evolution of lan-
guage, “I agree with practically everyone that the Baldwin Effect had some-
thing to do with it.” What most people are actually referring to when they
discuss the Baldwin Effect is better described as genetic assimilation (Briscoe
2000). What genetic assimilation does is provide a mechanism that is
entirely compatible with standard Darwinian natural selection whereby
behaviors that are learnt may, over evolutionary time, become innately
encoded.
Put simply, this is possible if we assume that there are behaviors that
could potentially arise from learning or be genetically determined to a
greater or lesser extent. This means that, even if an organism does not have
some optimal fitness-enhancing behavior completely innately encoded,
they can nevertheless potentially exhibit that behavior through learning.
As long as learning has some cost then a population in which there is
variation in the extent to which a behavior is innate will exhibit differ-
ences in fitness that favor increasingly nativized variants. Figure 23.5 con-
trasts two scenarios from Hinton and Nowlan’s (1987) model: one in which
there is a single genetically determined behavior that gives fitness advant-
age; and another in which the same is true but there is also the possibility
of learning. The first scenario presents evolution with a “needle in a hay-
stack” search problem. No matter how close to the optimal solution an
organism is, they receive no fitness advantage, so the best evolution can do
is simply to chance upon the perfect solution through a lucky combination
of mutations. In the second scenario, however, individuals can reach the
optimal behavior by learning even if they do not have it innately specified.
This means that organisms who are born with some of the behavior
innately specified are better off than those who are born with none.
Language, culture, and computation 473
However, since learning is assumed to carry some cost, the optimal organ-
ism is still one in which the behavior is entirely innately specified.
The introduction of learning to the model thus radically alters the fit-
ness landscape that evolution must search. We have moved from a needle
in a haystack, to a smooth hill for evolution to climb. The outcome is an
evolutionary trajectory that moves from behavior that is supported
entirely by learning to one that is increasingly innately coded.
It is clear why, given models like this, that the so-called Baldwin Effect is of
great interest to biolinguistics. It appears to provide support for the evolu-
tion of a language faculty in which linguistic behavior is to a great extent
constrained by a domain-specific genetic endowment. However, it is impor-
tant to realize that the Hinton and Nowlan (1987) results cannot be directly
applied to the linguistic case.3
Looking again at Figure 23.4, it should be clear
that this model of the Baldwin Effect only considers the interaction between
learning and evolution, and misses out cultural transmission.
The most obvious effect of removing cultural transmission from a model
of the interaction between learning and biological evolution is that the
target for learning (i.e. the peak in the fitness landscape) is fixed. If lan-
guage is transmitted culturally, and as a result is subject to change, then
there is no longer a fixed target for the Baldwin Effect to nativize. Chater,
Reali, and Christiansen (2009) have argued that this is a serious problem if
we assume that constraints on the ways languages change are arbitrary,
and that the rate of language change is higher than that of biological
evolution.
In addition to the fact that cultural transmission implies change, we also
need to consider the results from the work we reviewed earlier on iterated
fitness
lots of learning
genotype
entirely nativized
Without learning
With learning
Figure 23.5 Two “ﬁtness landscapes” corresponding to a similar adaptive challenge with and
without learning. In this scenario, without learning, the only difference in ﬁtness is felt by an
individual with a very speciﬁc genotype. With the addition of the possibility of learning,
individuals born with nearly the “correct” genotype are born with some ﬁtness advantage
over those that are born far away from the ﬁtness peak. In this second scenario, we expect an
evolutionary trajectory from individuals with lots of learning to those that are born with the
trait entirely nativized. However, see main text for issues with applying this logic to language.
474 S I M O N K I R B Y
learning. We have already shown that there is not a straightforward
relationship between our biologically specified learning machinery and
the resulting structure of language. What does that mean for evolutionary
models in which fitness is determined by the behavior in question (specif-
ically, language) but what is selected are genes that shape the nature of the
learner?
To answer this question, we need a model of learning which cleanly
separates the influence of the genes from the influence of data observed
through cultural transmission. Because of this, a recent trend in work on
iterated learning has been to use Bayesian models of the learning process
(Griffiths and Kalish 2007; Kirby, Dowman, and Griffiths 2008; and see
Griffiths, Kemp, and Tenenbaum 2008 for a tutorial introduction to
Bayesian approaches to cognition). In a Bayesian model, the influence of
the data and the influence of factors independent of the data (e.g. the
learner’s genes) are explicitly combined to compute the probability of
various hypotheses about the target language given the utterances
observed. This is possible using Bayes’ rule:
P hjd
ð Þ ¼
P djh
ð ÞP h
ð Þ
∑h′ P djh′
 
P h′
 
where P(h|d) is the posterior probability, the learner’s confidence a particular
grammar h accounts for the linguistic data, d; P(h) is the prior belief in each
grammar; and P(d|h) gives the probability that grammar h could have
generated the observed data. (The denominator here simply normalizes
the probabilities by summing over all possible grammars.)
So, we can use the prior as our model of innateness – it is what the
learner knows about language independent of any utterances heard and it
is provided, perhaps indirectly, by the genes. Kirby et al. (2008) following
Griffiths and Kalish (2007) place this model of learning within an iterated
context by allowing the product of one instance of Bayesian inference to
determine the data for the next generation. It is possible to compute from
this a “transition matrix” indicating the probability that any one language
will change into any other language after one “generation” of learning.
The particular probabilities in this matrix will depend primarily on the
prior and the number of utterances an individual hears during learning
(the bottleneck). Finally, this transition matrix can be used to compute the
“stationary distribution” arising from iterated learning (see also Komarova
and Nowak 2003). This is the expected distribution of languages after a
sufficient period of cultural evolution has taken place. In other words, the
stationary distribution corresponds to the distribution of language
described by the set of all language universals.
In a nutshell, what the Bayesian iterated learning model buys us is a
straightforward way to compute the language universals predicted to
emerge given a particular innate prior bias and a particular bottleneck.
Language, culture, and computation 475
In other words, it gives us a particularly general view of what cultural
transmission adds over and above any innate contribution.
What this means is that we can move beyond simply equating cultural
transmission with change in our co-evolutionary models of the biological
evolution of the language faculty as Chater et al. (2009) do. We now have a
principled way of relating changes in the genotype (the language faculty)
to the ultimate fitness-relevant phenotype (the language an individual is
likely to speak). Smith and Kirby (2008) utilize this to consider a simple
question: under what conditions should we expect biological evolution to
favor strong innate constraints on the form languages can take?
The classic results from the Baldwin Effect models seem to suggest that
such constraints will be favored as long as there is a cost to learning.
However, Smith and Kirby (2008) suggest that the addition of cultural
transmission, in the form of iterated learning, radically changes things.
Specifically, it acts to neutralize any variation in the strength of prior
biases. This is because – as Dediu and Ladd (2007) predict – culture can
take a weak preference and amplify its influence in such as way as to create
a strong bias in the distribution of languages. Kirby et al (2008) show that
the ultimate strength of a cross-linguistic bias in language distribution is
dependent on the bottleneck but not the strength of the prior bias. The
distinction between a strong innate constraint and a weak innate bias is
therefore effectively “masked” from the view of natural selection (see also
Wiles et al. 2005).
The surprising conclusion is that we should not expect natural selection
to favor strong innate constraints in the case of a culturally transmitted
trait like language. Weak nudges from our biology suffice. Smith and Kirby
(2008) conclude by saying:
If we believe that stronger prior biases (more restrictive innate machinery)
cost, then selection can favour the weakest possible prior bias in favour of
a particular type of linguistic structure. This result … leads us to suspect
that a domain-specific language faculty, selected for its linguistic conse-
quences, is unlikely to be strongly constraining – such a language faculty is
the least likely to evolve. Any strong constraints from the language faculty
are likely to be domain general, not domain specific, and owe their
strength to selection for alinguistic, non-cultural functions. (p. 3601)
23.7 Conclusions
In this chapter, we have seen some examples of how computational model-
ing has been used to tackle the complex adaptive systems that underpin
the emergence of language structure: individual learning, cultural trans-
mission, and biological evolution. Our intuitions about the behaviors of
these kinds of systems are often confounded, as I hope these simulation
476 S I M O N K I R B Y
models have demonstrated. Nowhere is this more true than when we
consider the interactions between the different timescales that are
involved. What might make intuitive sense when considering the biolog-
ical evolution of the language faculty alone, for example, must be recon-
sidered when the masking influence of cultural transmission is included in
the models.
Of course, these models are by their very nature extraordinarily simpli-
fied. But this, to many who work in the field of computational modeling, is
in fact their strength. Idealized models give us insight into how the funda-
mental mechanisms involved behave in general. They allow us to develop
new theories that build on a more solid understanding of what to expect
when, for example, mechanisms for learning a cultural system evolve.
Conversely, they allow us to reject hypotheses based on faulty understand-
ing of what is or is not likely when adaptive systems come together. For
instance, I would argue that we can reject the hypothesis that natural
selection is the only possible source for the appearance of design in
language structure (e.g., Pinker and Bloom 1990), now that we know that
iterated learning provides an additional possible adaptive mechanism.
Ultimately, however, this kind of work can only grant us a new toolkit
for building theories and suggest new places to look for hypotheses. They
must be paired with work from the other branches of this interdisciplinary
enquiry of biolinguistics. This will require bridge-building between differ-
ent approaches that take very different stances on the kinds of idealiza-
tions required to carry out research in linguistics. Idealizing away from the
complexities of linguistic phenomenon in order to focus on the role of
populations, for example, needs somehow to be reconciled with the more
traditional idealization away from the complexities of population dynam-
ics in order to focus on details of the representation of syntactic structure.
This kind of rapprochement between distinct methodological approaches
is likely to be one of the foremost challenges in the coming years of our
discipline.
Language, culture, and computation 477
24
Language and natural
selection
Derek Bickerton
24.1 Introduction
Did language evolve through natural selection? At first sight, this looks
like a question that would take a straight yes-or-no answer, one to which
almost all biologists (if not necessarily most linguists) would respond with
an unhesitating affirmative. Unfortunately things aren’t so simple. In the
constantly expanding literature on language evolution, one can distin-
guish at least the following points of view:
(1) Language began through natural selection and every subsequent step
in its development was guided by natural selection (Pinker 1994;
Pinker and Bloom 1990).
(2) Language began through natural selection and was subsequently
adaptive as a whole, but particular steps in its development were
not selected for per se (Jackendoff 2002).
(3) Particular prerequisites for language were selected for non-linguistic
reasons, and language itself was a resulting emergent property, but
language itself was not directly selected for (Jenkins 2000; Hauser et al.
2002).
(4) A suite of cognitive characteristics was selected for, having nothing to
do with language, that made possible the cultural invention of lan-
guage (Donald 1991; Fauconnier and Turner 2008).
Since this chapter deals only with natural selection, it will not cover
(3), and (4), properly speaking, lies outside the purlieu of biolinguistics
altogether, although it may be necessary from time to time to remind
readers of factors that make the invention of language by clever humans
a highly unlikely development. Accordingly I deal only with variants of the
first two positions.
The first point to emphasize is that, as the differences between (1) and (2)
suggest, we cannot treat the question “Did language evolve through natural
selection?” as a monolith. We must distinguish between two questions of
narrower scope: “Was the initial emergence of language due to natural
selection?” and “Were formal characteristics of language a consistent and
specific target for natural selection during subsequent development?”
For any trait to be selected, two conditions have to be fulfilled. There has
to some kind of genetic variation for selection to choose from, and there
has to be some kind of selective pressure as a result of which the target
genes lead to increased reproduction for those organisms whose genotype
includes them. (As an example of variation, take say a species with varying
genetic instructions for density of fur, and as an example of a selective
pressure, a downturn in average temperature – organisms bearing genes
that code for denser fur will enjoy longer life and better health than
organisms that do not, and consequently will increase their representation
in the gene pool.) When we turn to the evolution of language we must
accordingly ask what the relevant variation might have consisted of and
what pressure(s) might have selected from that variation. Since the type of
variation and the selection pressures involved are by no means necessarily
the same in both the original emergence of language and its subsequent
development, these two stages will be dealt with separately in what
follows.
24.2 Pre-linguistic variation
When change in an existing trait is involved, the answers to questions
about variation and selective pressure are usually straightforward. When
an evolutionary novelty such as language is involved, problems arise. If a
behavior is truly novel, then by definition there cannot already exist
variation in that behavior; variation must therefore be sought in some
other type of behavior, and suggestions made as to how that variation
could have been co-opted for some role in generating language.
What is perhaps still the most explicit exposition of position (1) – Pinker
and Bloom (1990) – clearly shows awareness that genetic variation must be
shown to exist if an account based on natural selection is to be supported.
But the only variation Pinker and Bloom consider (ibid., Section 5.1) is that
which is found in contemporary language. Extrapolating backwards from
this, it is not unreasonable to suppose that some degree of variation has
existed since the early days of language. But to project things further we
would have to suppose that linguistic variation preexisted language!
Pinker and Bloom fail to mention this problem.
24.2.1 Continuism and the “ladder to language”
The question therefore remains: what kind of variation in human ances-
tors could have been selected from in order for language to begin? Since
Language and natural selection 479
language is used (among other things) for communicating between indi-
viduals, the communicative behaviors of ancestral species seemed the
likeliest place to look, and that area has indeed been, historically speak-
ing, where most adherents of natural-selection theories of language
have looked. Perhaps the commonest assumption, from early studies
such as Hockett (1960) to recent ones such as Hurford (2007) – though
one not shared by Pinker and Bloom or, so far as I know, by many if any
generativists – has been that language was somehow on a continuum
with forms of animal communication. Let us call this position “naive
continuism.”
Plausible though naive continuism might initially sound, it suffers from
serious problems. Some of these were pointed out in the first chapter of
Bickerton (1990). The properties of language and animal communication
differ radically from one another: animal communication is stimulus-
bound, finite, and trapped in the here-and-now, whereas language is
stimulus-free, open-ended, and can roam freely over past and future,
over regions remote in space or existing solely in the imagination. An
even more fundamental argument has recently been provided by Balari
and Lorenzo (2009b, 2010b). They point out that systems of animal com-
munication do not constitute a natural class; “communication” is itself no
more than a convenient abstraction covering a range of behaviors as
diverse in their means of expression as they are in their functions.
Moreover, it is natural and inevitable that this should be so, since the
functions and structures that any species employs to communicate
between members are tailored by evolution to fit the needs of that parti-
cular species.
It follows that it is senseless to talk about language evolving out of pre-
linguistic communication, since pre-linguistic communication itself did
not evolve – at least not in the sense that organs like eyes or wings evolved,
by a stepwise and ratcheted progression in which each stage built on a
prior stage over a series of related organisms. But even the more thought-
ful continuists ( e.g. Hurford 2007) seem to assume that animal communi-
cation constitutes some kind of “ladder to language,” the rungs of which
constitute precursors of words, syntactic combinations, and so on. For that
matter, even some non-continuists seem to partially endorse the notion; as
Balari and Lorenzo (2009b, 2010b) point out, Hauser et al. (2002) treat many
pre-linguistic behaviors, including some communicative behaviors, as
giving rise to the Broad Faculty of Language, and hence as being legitimate
objects of study for language evolutionists.
However, many facts bear strongly against any kind of consistent
evolutionary development in communication. Take for example what is
frequently referred to as “functional reference,” found in monkeys
(Cheney and Seyfarth 1990), chickens (Evans et al. 1993), and other spe-
cies: that is, calls (usually warnings) that are taken by some continuists as
directly referring to members of other species, even as “proto-words” for
480 D E R E K B I C K E R T O N
those species. Systems that include “functionally referential” calls are
often regarded as more complex (and are certainly richer) than systems
that do not.
If indeed there were a “ladder to language,” one would predict that the
communication systems of great apes would, among all such systems,
most closely resemble language, hence would show more richness and
complexity than the systems of animals further from the hominid line. If
this were the case, great ape systems would include calls with functional
reference. But in fact they do not, even though functional reference is
found among monkeys, chickens, and other species much more distantly
related to humans.
The fact of the matter is that there is no “ladder to language.” A
species communicates about things if and only if its members thereby
obtain some selective advantage; its communication therefore directly
reflects its adaptive needs. All sexual species must reproduce, so all
such species will display some signs expressing receptivity to sex,
preparedness for sex, and the like. But not all species need signs to
indicate level of aggression or willingness to defend territory, since
not all species are territorial or engage in aggressive confrontations.
Species that are under heavy predation benefit from having warning
calls – calls with “functional reference” – so they have them; the
larger primates, on the other hand, have relatively little to fear from
predators, therefore such calls have little or no adaptive value. Yet
such is the attraction of the “ladder to language” model that these
facts, even when directly confronted, can still be rejected: “The appa-
rently greater complexity of monkey calls must be an illusion, one that
simply reflects our limited understanding of ape calls” (Mithen 2005:
113; emphasis added).
One of the most striking differences between language and the com-
munication of other animals is the difference in their relationship to
fitness. All units of all animal communication systems were originally
selected for, and continue to exist because, expression of those units
under the appropriate circumstances confers inclusive fitness. This
applies even for communications that result in the death of the com-
municator, for even if the animal that gives a warning call falls victim
to a predator, close kin who carry the genes that underlie calling
behavior will survive and continue to reproduce. However, there is no
unit of language (word, phrase, sentence . . .) that can, in and of itself,
in any way affect fitness, whether individual or inclusive. Language as a
whole may appear adaptive in the long run – at any rate, the one
species possessing it has achieved a position of unparalleled dominance
in nature – but it is too large and vague a category for statements like
“language increases fitness” or “language is adaptive” to have much
sense; one might almost as well say “communication increases fitness”
or “behavior is adaptive.”
Language and natural selection 481
24.2.2 Possible candidates for variation
If belief in straightforward continuity between animal communication
and language cannot be maintained, are there any aspects of the great
ape behavioral repertoire that might have been co-opted for linguistic
purposes? Let us consider the possibility that animal communication
might have provided some kind of input that could have been utilized
for phonetics, for semantics, or for syntax.
Could natural selection have honed the vocalizations of primate ances-
tors to produce at least the phonetic material that a nascent language
(if spoken) might employ? The profound differences between the modern
human phonetic inventory and the vocalizations of apes does not argue
against this possibility, since we cannot assume that sounds used in the
earliest stages of language bore any relationship to modern speech sounds.
More telling, if far from conclusive in itself, is the fact that speech sounds
and ape vocalizations are produced under the control of quite distinct
brain regions (Deacon 1997).
Perhaps most relevant here is that while on the one hand there is no
overlap in the phonetic properties of human and ape speech (Lieberman
1968), on the other there are clear continuities between ape sounds and
features of the human non-linguistic communication system, such as
laughter (Ross et al. 2009). It would appear that the latter system is indeed
homologous with earlier communication systems, while language repre-
sents a genuine evolutionary novelty.
With regard to the meaningful units (words) that speech sounds are
used to express, it has been suggested that the predator-warning sig-
nals of vervet monkeys (Cheney and Seyfarth 1990), which vary accord-
ing to whether the predator concerned is an eagle, a leopard, or a
snake, are in some sense precursors for human words. For instance,
Donaldson et al. (2007: 232), while admitting the possibility that “the
kind of functional reference we have described here bears only super-
ficial resemblance to the type of referential meaning that words in
human language have,” claim that “even a superficial resemblance to
a referential system could have provided the conditions necessary for a
truly referential system to develop.” But if this is so, it is strange that
such signals are found in a range of species (from vervets to chickens)
that are phylogenetically remote from humans, but are absent from all
of our closest relatives.
Moreover, the assumption that vervet signals refer to particular species
such as eagles or leopards is no more than a back-projection of our own
language-saturated view of the world. The main functions of these signals
are (a) to make others aware of danger and its likely location, and (b) to get
others to take the appropriate evasive action. Thus the so-called “eagle”
and “leopard” signals are probably interpreted by vervets as things along
the line of “Danger from the air!,” “Danger from the ground!,” “Get down
from the trees,” “Get up into the trees,” etc., with the identification of the
482 D E R E K B I C K E R T O N
predatory species being marginal, if an issue at all – in other words, vervet
calls are indexical and manipulative, but in no sense referential.
This leaves only syntax as an area of language that might (in some sense)
have been anticipated by other species. Any kind of concatenation in
animal signals is notoriously rare, but recent research has uncovered a
few cases, and these have been hailed by some as “precursors of syntax.”
For instance, according to Zuberbühler (2002, 2005), Campbell’s monkeys
sometimes preface warning calls with a “boom” vocalization, and this is
interpreted by a sympatric species (Diana monkeys) who attend to and
repeat Campbell’s monkey calls as indicating that the danger is remote
and can safely be ignored. This is a bizarre case, since it involves two
species rather than one; more telling evidence comes from studies of
putty-nosed monkeys (Arnold and Zuberbühler 2006). This species has
two calls, a “pyow” call that warns of the presence of eagles, and a
“hack” call that signals the presence of leopards. However, a combination
of two to three “pyow” calls followed by up to four “hack” calls led in many
cases to subsequent movement of the group.
Note however that (in contrast with concatenated words) the coupling of
these signals produces a meaning that has no connection with the mean-
ings of the two calls in isolation. In contrast, what characterizes linguistic
utterances of only two units is the fact that they stand in a subject–
predicate relationship with one another, so that while one focuses on a
particular topic. the other provides information about that topic (dogs bark,
John agreed, temperatures rose). Moreover, it is surely significant that these
behaviors, like warning calls, are found in relatively remote phyla rather
than among our more immediate relatives. While such phenomena are of
considerable interest in themselves, they show no cumulative increase
across species, and can therefore hardly be regarded as steps on the road
to syntax. Indeed, since animal signals are complete in themselves. and
since each is modeled for use in some very specific situation, it would seem
quite pointless to concatenate them in any way that could be properly
called “syntactic.”
The foregoing suggests that language could not have been initiated by
natural selection working on any of the variations – phonetic, semantic, or
quasi-syntactic – found in other species. This should, accordingly, strongly
discourage researchers from seeking antecedents to language among the
communicative behaviors of other living organisms. It does not, of course,
rule out the possibility that natural selection worked upon variation in
some species now extinct that was ancestral to modern humans, a point to
which I return later.
24.2.3 Possible candidates for selective pressure
As noted above, natural selection requires two components. In addition to
variation, there must be some form of selective pressure such that
Language and natural selection 483
possessors of some variant(s) increase their representation in the gene
pool. In variation, as we saw, there is a dearth of plausible possibilities,
but when it comes to selective pressure, the reverse is the case. Over the
years, numerous and diverse selective pressures have been proposed.
However, the very number of these proposals is enough to excite suspi-
cion. None has shown itself to be more plausible than any of the others,
and in every case serious doubts can be raised.
Suggested pressures for language fall into two major classes, those that
involved interaction with the physical environment and those that were
purely social (for a full list see Johansson 2005). Environmental explana-
tions were most favored until the 1990s; language was seen as being
selected for by activities such as tool-making or hunting. An influential
essay by Humphrey (1976) shifted the emphasis to social-interaction
theories; in an intelligent species, coping with conspecifics was seen as
more challenging than coping with environmental factors (Dunbar 1998;
Worden 1998).
One important factor that led to this shift was an exponential increase in
knowledge and understanding of the great apes. This increase was two-
sided. On the one hand, it was found that activities like hunting and tool-
making, once thought to be exclusively human, were also carried on by
chimpanzees, showing that language was by no means necessary for their
performance (Boesch and Boesch 1990; Goodall and von Lawick 2000) . On
the other, numerous studies showed that ape societies were highly com-
plex and that apes actively sought to determine the intentions and mani-
pulate the behavior of others, demonstrating a well-developed social
intelligence (Byrne 1997; de Waal 1995). In consequence, much work
since 1990 has seen gossip (as a grooming substitute) (Dunbar 1993),
theory of mind (Dunbar 1998, Kwisthout 2006), female choice (Miller
1997), ritual (Deacon 1997; Knight 1998) or other aspects of social inter-
action as motivating the earliest appearance of language.
One difficulty is that most of these supposed pressures apply equally to
a range of other species. Other species make and use tools, engage in
female choice, and so on. Any adequate theory of language evolution
must explain not only how and why humans got language, but also why
no other species has even set out on that particular road. Another diffi-
culty applies to any theory based on social intelligence. The complexity
of primate social relations, which initially seemed to favor social-
intelligence pressures, turns out on closer examination to do the very
opposite. If interactions were already so complex, how would language
have facilitated them? If human societies are more complex than those of
other primates, this would seem to be due to complexities that result
from the possession of language, rather than things that language might
have made more manageable. In the absence of any detailed hypothesis
as to exactly how any added layer of complexity could have selected for
a referential, information-exchanging form of communication – rather
484 D E R E K B I C K E R T O N
than a meaningless repertoire of pleasing sounds, which would surely
equally well satisfy the requirements of a grooming substitute or sexual
display – there is really nothing in social-pressure theories that can be
helpfully discussed.
Other objections to selective-pressure stories relate to circumstances
surrounding the initial use of symbolic units. The first handful of linguistic
symbols must have fulfilled some substantive function, otherwise there
would have been no motivation to develop more. But for most of the
proposed pressures, the utility of such a handful is dubious at best.
Moreover, other problems would have had to be overcome, including
those of selfishness – why would an individual give away information, a
valuable commodity, with no sure prospect of reward? – and “cheap
tokens” (Zahavi 1977) – why would a species capable of deception trust
things as easy to produce as words? (For a fuller discussion of these pro-
blems see Bickerton 2009.)
We can conclude from the foregoing sections that it is by no means easy
to explain the emergence of language in terms of natural selection. The
situation can be summed up as follows: whatever variation was selected
from could not have been found outside the hominid line, and must
accordingly have been produced by some species now extinct, while
even given the existence of appropriate variation, none of the proposed
selective pressures either stands out as superior to others or overcomes all
the objections that can be raised. To this last generalization there is one
possible exception, which will be discussed in the final section of this
chapter.
24.3 Post-origin variations and pressures
There have been a number of arguments against the possibility that, once
it had originated, language could have continued to evolve biologically.
Deacon (1997) saw language, post-origin, as changing so rapidly that it
could not provide a stable target for selection. Lieberman (1989) suggested
that the uniformity of grammatical attainment among all mentally normal
speakers is such that selection would not have enough variation to work
with. However, Deacon’s argument seems to depend on the assumption
that language was somehow separate from the minds/brains that devel-
oped it, rather than simply reflecting the current capacities of those minds/
brains, while Lieberman does not consider the point that, although all
normal speakers today might have achieved a similar level of competence,
this was by no means necessarily so during the countless millennia that it
may have taken language to evolve to its present state.
But if variation did indeed exist during the post-origin development
of language, what would have been the variables? Pinker and Bloom
(1990) suggest that a parent with a rule of grammar n might (through
Language and natural selection 485
recombination or mutation) have had an offspring with a rule n + 1
(a similar approach is found in Newmeyer 1991). Quite apart from the
fact that this reflects a concept of a grammar as a list of specific gram-
matical rules, one already outdated in 1990, there are serious problems
with this formulation. First, the fact that some variants of grammar might
crop up does not entail that they will become fixed, and the authors do not
propose any selective mechanism that might have served to fix them. But
more importantly, the notion that selection involved particular compo-
nents of formal grammars seems to lack any empirical or even intuitive
support. David Lightfoot (1991: 69) drily remarked that “the Subjacency
Condition has many virtues, but I am not sure that it would have increased
the chances of having fruitful sex.”
Variation in the expressive power of speakers is a different matter. In a
little-known article that preceded the 1990 explosion of interest in lan-
guage evolution, Burling (1986) put forward two arguments that linked
language skills with leadership and increased reproduction. Burling noted
that political power very frequently went to the most copious and fluent
speakers, and that since, once in leadership positions, such speakers
would most likely enjoy longer life and better mating opportunities, they
would thereby increase the representation of their language-adapted
genes in the population at large. This presumes a type of linguistic varia-
tion that, unlike the Pinker/Bloom version, abstracts away from specific
formal structures in favor of overall proficiency (which could, though it
would not necessarily, involve increased complexity in syntax).
Rather than search for elusive links between formal grammar and evolu-
tionary processes, one should consider what the brain was most likely to
do once it had been colonized by words. Brains have evolved for eons to
organize increasingly complex behavior. For instance, as sight improved
and more complex objects could be distinguished, areas of the brain
devoted to vision grew more complex to deal with them. Comparable
developments occurred for the other senses. That a similar process
occurred with human language, only indirectly helped by the kind of
selection that Burling envisaged, seems more plausible, in light of present
knowledge, than the Pinker/Bloom model’s more simplistic links between
selection and formal structures.
24.4 Is any natural-selection-based account of language
potentially viable?
Although the Pinker/Bloom model of language as a direct product of
natural selection was initially plausible, two decades of inquiry have
shown that any model based on natural selection runs into serious prob-
lems. Consequently many, especially in linguistics, have adopted partly
or wholly non-selectionist models of language. Since non-selectionist
486 D E R E K B I C K E R T O N
arguments are dealt with elsewhere, I shall not discuss their pros and cons
here, but instead suggest a way – perhaps the only way – in which at least
some of the objections to selectionist models could be overcome.
In light of what has been said above, natural selection is unlikely to have
led directly to the emergence of language. It is more likely that instead,
some particular property of language was selected for, possession of which
gave humans a starter menu of quasi-symbolic signs that triggered brain
processes for storing, analyzing, and building structure – processes similar
to those that had already been used to store, analyze, and build structure
from data collected by the various senses. If, instead of seeking homolo-
gies, we turn to the analogous developments of convergent evolution and
niche construction (Conway Morris 2003, Odling-Smee et al. 2003) and look
(as recommended by Hauser et al. 2002, and as is standard procedure for
biologists researching non-linguistic adaptations) for such phenomena in
the natural world even beyond vertebrates, we find that, so far as is
presently known, only three species have ever incorporated any property
usually treated as unique to language into their communication systems.
Those three are ants, bees, and ravens, the property in all three cases is
displacement – objective reference to things beyond either sender’s or
receiver’s sensory range at the time of communication – and the selective
pressure in each case is the same: recruitment for exploitation of food
sources too large and/or transient to be exploited by the individual(s) who
first located them.
Bees indicate by specialized dances the locations, distances, and quali-
ties of remote food sources (von Frisch 1967, Gould 1976). Ants regurgitate
food samples, lay chemical trails, and physically manipulate nest-mates
(Holldobler 1971, 1978). Immature ravens inform roost-mates of carcasses
guarded by bonded pairs of mature ravens, and the next day a cohort of
roost-mates flies to the site and drives off the bonded pair (Heinrich 1991).
Intriguingly, though much less is known about the latter case, it incorpo-
rates an element – the elimination of scavenging competition – that
becomes critical in the case of human ancestors.
Around two million years ago, evidence from changes in foraging pat-
terns (Binford 1985), the sequence of cut-marks and bite-marks on bones
(Monahan 1996, Dominguez-Ramiro et al. 2005) and practical experiments
in using prehistoric tools for butchering megafauna (Schick and Toth
1993), as well as the implications of optimal foraging theory (Stephens
and Krebs 1986), indicates that human ancestors began to engage in con-
frontational scavenging. There existed a brief window of opportunity
between the death of a large herbivore and the rupture of its hide by
expansion of internal gases, a period during which no competing scav-
enger could access the vast bonanza of meat that would subsequently
become available. However, since stone flakes and hand-axes could be
used to open and segment the carcass, pre-humans could exploit this
window, provided they could, within a short space of time, summon
Language and natural selection 487
sufficient numbers to drive off other scavengers. This would have required
the transfer of information about the nature and location of a carcass
between individuals who might be removed from it by some miles in
distance and an hour or more in time, adding the crucial element of
displacement to an otherwise standard mammalian communication sys-
tem (for a much fuller account of the factors involved, see Bickerton 2009:
Chapters 5–8).
Note that this is not a case of natural selection directly selecting for
language, but rather of a constructed niche (Odling-Smee et al. 2003) –
confrontational scavenging of large carcasses – selecting for a particular
type of behavior that involved a major pre-requisite for language –
displacement. But this is only to be expected, and indeed should have
been suggested earlier, given the problems that attend all proposals for
more direct selection of language. Note also that the target achieved by
the process might be better regarded as an enhanced communication sys-
tem than as a primitive form of language. However, once the capacity for
displacement, a crucial pre-requisite for symbolic units (words or manual
signs as we presently know them) had been implanted in a primate brain – a
brain orders of magnitude larger than the brains of ants or bees – it became
highly likely that it would be developed and exploited for other purposes
besides scavenging megafauna, and that (in ways that remain to be worked
out in detail) a true language would eventually emerge from this source.
While the particular account above may prove incomplete or unsatisfac-
tory, it seems highly likely that if any viable selective theory of language
evolution is to be developed, it must take a similarly circuitous route.
24.5 Conclusion
Given the extent to which Darwinian thought has affected the behavioral
sciences over the last quarter-century, it is hardly surprising that theories
of language evolution have favored natural selection as a major, if not the
only agency. Unfortunately, and perhaps at least in part because of this
generational mind-set, selectionist theories have been much too uncriti-
cally accepted. Even those who reject them usually do so outright, on
principle, rather than providing a detailed analysis of their difficulties
from a biological perspective.
At the same time, natural selection remains central to evolutionary
theory. Rather than reject selectionist approaches entirely, researchers
should at least consider the possibility that, while language may not
have been directly selected for in its origin, and while formal features of
modern language form unlikely targets for any known selective process at
any time, natural selection has indeed worked in a more indirect fashion
to bring about the circumstances in which the modern human language
faculty could emerge and develop.
488 D E R E K B I C K E R T O N
25
The fossils of language:
What are they? Who has
them? How did they
evolve?
Sergio Balari, Antonio Benítez-Burraco, Víctor M. Longa,
and Guillermo Lorenzo
25.1 Introduction
Unraveling the origin of language is not an easy task, for even establishing
what can reasonably be deemed as a “fossil of language” is a very contro-
versial matter. Some non-trivial issues concerning the nature of homologi-
cal relations and the form/function problem are especially hard to come to
terms with when dealing with anatomical fossils or, more recently, with
fossil DNA sequences. When studying language, on whose anatomical and
genetic foundations there is no clear consensus, these issues become
almost intractable. However, we contend in this chapter that a reasonable
picture about when and how language evolved can be attained by putting
together (1) the archaeological record and the cognitive capabilities under-
lying it, (2) cranial fossils and some independently motivated principles
governing the organization of brains, and (3) some recently accessible
data regarding the evolutionary history of some human DNA sequences.
These are, in our opinion, the most reliable fossils of the human faculty of
language.
The chapter is organized as follows. Section 25.2 is devoted to the
analysis of fossil remains that have been classified in relation with
hominid articulatory and auditory abilities. We argue that these data
do not touch on core linguistic properties and that they are therefore a
poor source of evidence concerning the evolution of modern forms of
This work has been carried out through the project “Biolingüística: evolución, desarrollo y fósiles del lenguaje” (FFI2010–
14955) of the Spanish Ministerio de Ciencia e Innovación and partially cofunded by FEDER funds, and received support
from the Generalitat de Catalunya through grant 2009SGR1079-Lingüística Teòrica to the Centre de Lingüística Teòrica of
the Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona of which Sergio Balari is a member.
language. We also observe that a certain imbalance between articula-
tion and audition, which is apparent in the analysis of these fossils,
could mean that even speech was probably not adjusted for language in
species other than modern humans. However, we contend that it is
possible to find in the archaeological record rich information about the
cognitive capabilities of different hominid species that can be put in
relation with the symbolic and computational requirements of the
faculty of language. In this respect, the most significant fact is the
asymmetry between the remnants of modern humans and other hom-
inids, including those of the Neanderthals. Section 25.3 concentrates on
the anatomic correlates of those mental abilities, discussing how they
evolved in the brain of early humans. We contend that the incorpora-
tion of the “grammar of the basal ganglia” model into the “evo-devo”
paradigm and the “size-driven view of vertebrate brain evolution”
opens a way to a promissory answer which, we further defend, fits
well with the pattern of brain size increase observed throughout the
evolution of humans. Section 25.4 explains that such an answer also
matches with recent findings concerning both the evolutionary history
of certain genomic sequences and the general evolutionary pattern
of DNA fragments directly related with the development of the
human central nervous system. Some concluding remarks are offered
in Section 25.5.
25.2 Fossil evidence of language origins
Language does not fossilize. To study its evolution we must therefore rely
on indirect evidence coming from different sources, and one of these
sources is the archaeological record and the fossil remains of our ances-
tors. However, the record does not itself speak (Mithen 2007a). Thus, its
interpretation crucially relies on inferences (Binford 1989: 3; Fitch 2009a:
115), which sometimes may not be entirely well grounded (Botha 2009,
2010). This section concentrates on the main types of “fossil” evidence (the
term “fossil” being used in a broader sense than usually) which have been
claimed to help unravel language evolution, and on the shortcomings of
many of them. Two core ideas are defended: (1) the types of fossils which
may more reliably be linked to language (symbolic or cultural fossils) are
absent before Homo sapiens (Anatomically Modern Humans; henceforth,
AMH); (2) evidence deriving from most of the other kinds of fossils is
inconclusive.
25.2.1 Fossil evidence of (full) language
Making “Jespersen’s dream” (Lorenzo and Longa 2009) true would mean
characterizing the prehistory of language through the laws or tendencies
490 S . B A L A R I , A . B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O , V. M . L O N G A , A N D G . L O R E N Z O
of linguistic change (Jespersen 1922: Chapter XXI). Unfortunately, this is
unrealistic: historical linguistics and its methods of internal reconstruc-
tion have important shortcomings. Those methods cannot shed light upon
language’s origins or its evolution (d’Errico et al. 2003: 49). In fact, histor-
ical linguists (even those who consider long-range comparisons to be
attainable; see Ruhlen 1994a, 1994b) are highly skeptical in this respect
(Campbell and Poser 2008: Chapter 12; Nichols 1997: 365).
This skepticism is justified for two reasons. Firstly, internal recon-
struction suffers from methodological constraints that hinder our look
into the past (see Gray 2005). If disagreement exists about current
linguistic families and their genetic relationships, it is pretty clear that
the hope of explaining language evolution by means of historical
linguistics is an illusion. There are several problems involved here: (1)
The rate at which languages change is neither constant nor predictable
(Dixon 1997: 9; Nichols 1997: 365); (2) according to scholars like
Lightfoot (1999), language change is unpredictable, thus lacking direc-
tionality; (3) it is often not possible to know whether a resemblance
among languages is due to an areal (i.e. borrowing) or a genetic origin
(Dixon 1997: 141), or even to a chance resemblance; (4) the search for
similarities among languages is usually based on the identification of
cognates (lexical similarities due to common descent). Cognates, how-
ever, do not inform us about grammatical structure, this level being the
most relevant in determining the “shape” of prehistoric languages.
Although Nichols (1992) extended the notion of genetic marker to
features of language structure, the same temporal restrictions apply,
and accordingly, descent and reconstruction are not traceable beyond
10,000 years (Dixon 1997: 2; Nichols 1997: 365), nor reliable beyond
6,000 years (but see Ruhlen 1994a, 1994b). Secondly, reconstruction is
a valid procedure only when linguistic change entails a process of diver-
gence from a common (proto)language. However, according to Dixon
(1997), this situation is perhaps exceptional: linguistic change would
seem usually to take place through borrowing and spreading.
In short, the comparative method is incapable of illuminating language
evolution. For language phylogeny to be reconstructed, we need to take
into account other kinds of evidence, but see Heine and Kuteva (2007) for a
recent attempt at applying the methodology of grammaticalization to the
reconstruction of early stages of grammars.
Leaving aside speculative proposals about ancient stages of language in
present-day brains (Bickerton 1990) or protolinguistic fossils in today’s
language (of the type “Agent first,” “Focus last”; see Jackendoff 2002:
Chapter 8), direct evidence for language is very recent: the advent of
writing, which dates back about 5 ka – where 1ka = 1,000 years – (see
Daniels and Bright 1996), or perhaps a bit more (Haarmann 1996 claims
that writing’s origin lies in the pre-Indo-European Vinça culture, near
Belgrade, VI millennium B.P.).
The fossils of language 491
According to Donald (1991), three main transitions characterize human
cognitive evolution, each of them providing new representational sys-
tems. Writing belongs to the third transition, “external symbolic storage,”
which enabled external memory to develop through material symbols.
Donald does not identify these symbols with writing: he rather points to
Upper Palaeolithic visual symbols (some of them much older) as the origin
of that stage. It is thus licit to include within such a stage a wider range of
objects made of antler, bone or ivory and engraved with marks. They
appear to be (abstract) notational systems (Marshack 1991; d’Errico 1999;
d’Errico et al. 2003; Mellars 2005) used to store and recover information.
D’Errico et al. (2003: 31) contend that the geometric patterns engraved
on pieces of ochre found at Blombos Cave (Henshilwood et al. 2002) are the
earliest samples of external memory (while Lewis-Williams 2002 takes
them to be the first evidence of art). Later on, since the beginning of the
Upper Palaeolithic, true notational systems were developed. It is worth
noting that, according to d’Errico et al. (2003: 31), these systems clearly
demonstrate the existence of modern language, “because modern lan-
guage is the only communication system with a built-in metalanguage
that allows for the creation of symbolic codes.” These scholars point out
that notational systems become very complex at the end of the Upper
Palaeolithic (see d’Errico 1995), and they go on to suggest a hierarchical
organization of information (d’Errico et al. 2003: 33). No evidence is found
for notational systems before AMH, and this absence fits in well with the
absence of symbolic evidence in earlier hominids (see Section 25.2.3).
25.2.2 Fossil evidence of sensorimotor systems
The evidence discussed so far either does not provide any data on language
evolution (historical linguistics) or it does so in a very indirect way (nota-
tional systems). Other kinds of alleged evidence are also inconclusive. The
reconstruction of the Articulatory–Perceptual System from the fossil
record is the most obvious case. Two examples are brought to the fore
which illustrate pretty well that inconclusiveness.
25.2.2.1 Articulatory system
Much ink has been spilt in discussing the position of the hominid larynx
(especially, the Neanderthal larynx) and the shape of the supralaryngeal
vocal tract (henceforth, SVT). This discussion rests on the assumption that
“speech is special” (but see below), and it takes for granted that AMH
underwent a lowering of the larynx (and further re-arrangement of the
SVT) which enhanced their articulatory capacities (Lieberman and Crelin
1971; Lieberman et al. 1972). Accordingly, many efforts have been devoted
to the reconstruction of the Neanderthal vocal tract, in order to know
whether this species had a larynx low or high in the throat. The results
are completely unclear, though. The vocal tract is made up of soft tissue
492 S . B A L A R I , A . B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O , V. M . L O N G A , A N D G . L O R E N Z O
and does not fossilize; therefore, reconstructions rely on very indirect
inferences, from which conflicting conclusions can arise.
Several reconstructions of the vocal tract of Neanderthal fossils (Negus
1949, Lieberman and Crelin 1971) have made the point that the
Neanderthal larynx was positioned higher than in AMH. For example,
Lieberman and Crelin (1971) attempted to reconstruct the SVT of the
Neanderthal fossil from La Chapelle-aux-Saints. According to them, the
Neanderthal airway was similar to that of human newborns and primates,
with a high larynx. Thus, Neanderthals lacked an adult human SVT, this
limitation preventing them from producing the quantal vowels [a], [i], and
[u] (for a modern treatment, see Lieberman 2006, 2007a, and Martı́nez and
Arsuaga 2009, who extend Lieberman’s conclusions to Middle Pleistocene
fossils in Europe and Africa). Following Lieberman (1991, 2006, 2007a), the
human vocal tract shows a 1:1 oral-to-pharyngeal ratio, the horizontal oral
cavity (SVTh) and the vertical suprapharyngeal cavity (SVTv) thus being
proportional. Because of the length of the Neanderthal SVTh, the SVTv
should be as long as the SVTh for the system to be a functionally human
SVT (Lieberman assumes that the 1:1 ratio also holds for Neanderthals).
Two consequences arise: (1) a long mouth would prevent a human-like
tongue (Lieberman 2006: 294), and (2) given that a long oral cavity requires
a long pharynx, the Neanderthal larynx should be in the chest, but “no
mammal has its larynx in its chest” (Lieberman 1991: 68).
Lieberman and Crelin’s (1971) conclusion has been highly controversial
(Falk 1975; Le May 1975; DuBrul 1977). Recently, Boë et al. (1999, 2002)
refuted it on biometric and acoustic grounds: the Neanderthal larynx
would not be as high as assumed by Lieberman and Crelin. According to
Boë et al., the position of the larynx and the length ratio of the pharyngeal
cavity to the oral cavity may be estimated from the cranial-facial geometry.
They calculate length ratios from anthropological data, and discover that
those ratios show a great variation, although with expected age and gender
trends. If such results are applied to Neanderthals, the length ratio and the
position of the larynx are within the range of variation of a modern female
or a child. Moreover, by using an articulatory model, they conclude that
the Neanderthal vowel space was not smaller than that of modern
humans. The approach of Boë et al. is purely morphological, as they
themselves highlight. This means that they cannot answer the question
whether Neanderthals really had a modern speech. In any event, their
conclusions suggest that Neanderthals were not morphologically handi-
capped for speech (for further discussion see Lieberman 2007b and Boë
et al. 2007).
Other scholars agreed with Lieberman and Crelin: Laitman and
Heimbuch (1982) or Laitman et al. (1978, 1979), relying on correlations
between skeletal traits (especially, the basicranium) and the position of the
larynx. These papers (and before them Lieberman and Crelin themselves)
assumed a correlation between the flexure of the basicranium and the
The fossils of language 493
position of the larynx. Human newborns (and primates) show a basicra-
nium that is not much flexed, and a high larynx; when the larynx descends
in the ontogeny, the flexure of the basicranium increases. Accordingly, a
Neanderthal shallow basicranium (i.e. not flexed) would mean that the
specimen was not able to speak. However, X-ray studies of children
(Lieberman and McCarthy 1999; Lieberman et al. 2001) showed that the
correlation between the lowering of the larynx and the flexure of the
basicranium does not hold (as recognized by Lieberman 2007a: 46).
Moreover, Heim (1989) considered that the reconstruction of the specimen
from La Chapelle-aux-Saints assumed a basicranial flexure that is too
small.
The Neanderthal hyoid from Kebara is not informative either. This bone
supports the larynx and the tongue root. Because its morphology and size
are quite similar to those of a modern hyoid, Arensburg et al. (1989, 1990)
concluded that the vocal tract of the Neanderthal specimen was modern as
well. This statement was strongly criticized (Lieberman et al. 1989; Laitman
et al. 1990): the position of the hyoid bone is not fixed but “moves upward
and forward” (Lieberman 2007a: 47) because it is attached to soft tissues.
Therefore, its morphology cannot show the shape of the tract or the
position of the larynx. That is, reconstructions suggest one thing . . . or
quite the opposite.
However, this is not the whole story. If reconstructions have been very
controversial, the serious application of the comparative method weakens
them even more (Fitch 2000a, 2000b, 2002, 2005, 2009a). Traditionally,
two models for the position of the mammal larynx were sustained (Negus
1949; Lieberman et al. 1969; Lieberman 1984: 273–274): in non-human
primates and human newborns the larynx (and the tongue root) is posi-
tioned high, whereas it undergoes a lowering in the child. Therefore, the
position of the human larynx was taken to be special, in agreement with
the special nature of speech (see Lieberman 2003: 258). Accordingly, “The
beliefs that a descended larynx is uniquely human and that it is diagnostic
of speech have played a central role in modern theorizing about the
evolution of speech and language” (Fitch and Reby 2001: 1669). This idea
has pervaded Linguistics (Lieberman 1984, 1991; Carstairs McCarthy 1998,
1999; Studdert-Kennedy 1998) and Paleoanthropology (Arsuaga and
Martı́nez 1998: Chapter 16; Chaline 1994: Chapter 12).
However, the idea that “The non-human larynx is positioned high”
(Lieberman 2003: 261) has been shown to be false. Recent research (Fitch
2000b; Fitch and Reby 2001) demonstrates that the position of our larynx is
not special. The mammal vocal tract is highly flexible and mobile, and the
larynx descends during the vocalizations of animals like pigs, dogs, goats,
or monkeys, sometimes to a very extensive degree (dog barking). Besides, a
permanently descended larynx is not specifically human either: animals
like red deer, fallow deer (Fitch and Reby 2001), Mongolian gazelle (Frey
and Riede 2003), or several species of the genus Panthera (Weissengruber
494 S . B A L A R I , A . B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O , V. M . L O N G A , A N D G . L O R E N Z O
et al. 2002) also have it. Because these animals do not speak, “a descended
larynx is not indicative of speech” (Hauser and Fitch 2003: 165).
Such considerations make it more difficult to reconstruct the morphology
of the hominid vocal tract and its speech capabilities (Fitch 2009a: 119).
To summarize, according to Lieberman (2006: 292), “Barring the discovery
of a frozen Neanderthal preserved in a glacier, this issue may never be fully
resolved.” However, as claimed by Fitch (2009a), this discovery would
not clarify the issue. On the one hand, because some mammals have a
descended larynx but are unable to speak, “even if we discovered (say) a
frozen Neanderthal specimen with a descended larynx, we could not
necessarily conclude its species possessed spoken language” (Fitch 2009a:
119). On the other hand, “Nor, given the flexibility of the mammalian vocal
tract, would a high laryngeal position demonstrate that the Neanderthal
didn’t speak: He or she might have lowered the larynx and tongue root
dynamically during vocalization” (Fitch 2009a: 133).
The take-home message is clear: reconstructions of the vocal tract face
insurmountable problems.
25.2.2.2 Perceptual system
The example discussed in this section (linguistic significance of auditory
capacities) shares the same indeterminacy. Martı́nez et al. (2004, 2008) and
Martı́nez and Arsuaga (2009) acknowledge that reconstructions of the
vocal tract of human fossils have not offered clear results. Thus, they
suggest a new approach: to analyze the hominid auditory capacities (espe-
cially, sound power transmission) from a 3D reconstruction of the outer
and middle ear of Homo heidelbergensis fossils of more than 500 ka found at
Sima de los Huesos, Atapuerca.
The results derived from the reconstruction of the audiogram suggest
that those hominids shared the U-shaped curve which is usual for modern
humans, and which greatly departs from the primate W-shaped curve. This
means that both modern humans and Heidelbergensis fossils show high
sensitivity within the 1 kHz to 5 kHz range of frequencies. On the other
hand, chimpanzees have two peaks of high sensitivity (at 1 kHz and at
8 kHz), and a loss of sensitivity between 2 kHz and 4 kHz. From their
results, Martı́nez et al. (2004: 9980) conclude that “the skeletal anatomy
of the outer and middle ear that support the perception of human spoken
language were already present in the SH [Sima de los Huesos] hominids.”
That discovery suggests “an ancient origin for human spoken language”
(Martı́nez et al. 2008: 4178).
The results attained by Martı́nez et al. are undoubtedly relevant: it is the
first time that an aspect linked to hominid sensory perception has been
measured. But caution is in order: to have the same auditory capacities as
those of modern humans cannot be said to be identical to possessing a
human-like language. Although we cannot know what kinds of sounds
Heidelbergensis (or Neanderthals) actually produced, according to the
The fossils of language 495
audiogram we could suppose that they were able to easily discriminate
between [i] and [u], or to distinguish relevant acoustic properties of sibilant
sounds like [s]. Unfortunately for this kind of approach to the reconstruc-
tion of the speech capabilities of our ancestors, these results raise more
questions than they provide answers. Indeed, recall from our discussion
above that, as repeatedly pointed out by Lieberman and his colleagues,
most evidence appears to suggest that Neanderthals lacked a fully human
SVT, a conclusion recently supported by new evidence presented by
Martı́nez and Arsuaga (2009), who extend this conclusion to other Middle
Pleistocene fossils in both Europe and Africa. Now, this basically means
that these hominids would have had problems with the production of the
vowels [a], [i], and [u], which, taken now together with the perceptual data,
reveals a fairly peculiar situation indeed, since Neanderthals (and other
hominid species, according to Martı́nez and Arsuaga 2009) would have
been able to discriminate sounds ([i] and [u]) that they were not able to
produce accurately. As we said, this is certainly strange, since a balance
between emission and perception capabilities is the rule rather than the
exception in other primates (Cheney and Seyfarth 1990; Hauser 1996). For
example, chimpanzee vocalizations contain sounds comparable to [a], [o],
and [u], but, as one would expect given their perceptual capabilities, they
lack any sounds resembling [i] or [e], since their acoustic features sit within
the range of frequencies to which the chimpanzee ear is less sensitive
(Kojima and Kiritani 1989).
The key question, however, is whether auditory capacities tell us any-
thing about language. We do not think so. The anatomy of the middle ear is
hardly informative about the perception of sounds, and even less about
their temporal perception while they are processed. This was already clear
for the theoretical musicians of the eighteenth century, who knew that
such a capacity lies in the internal ear and the auditory nerve (Rameau
1737). Both the cochlea and the auditory nerve are central for perceiving
musical or speech sounds (Moore 1989; Pickles 1988), and, in general,
every complex sound. Primates share very similar capabilities in this
respect. For that reason, in spite of the sensitivity differences between
humans and primates, both show a very similar behavior in categorical
perception experiments (Kuhl and Padden 1983; Kojima and Kiritani 1989;
Kojima et al. 1989; Kuhl 1989; Hauser 1996; for a review, see Hauser and
Fitch 2003). Differences derive from the differences in sensitivity, not from
how sounds are processed.
The real question is, are the syllables [ba] and [pa] two syllables for
a chimpanzee? Undoubtedly, the answer is no: syllables (the same applies
to vowels and consonants) are linguistic units (although they may derive
from ancient mammal capacities, like chewing; see MacNeilage 1998,
2008). Syllables, vowels and consonants are for chimpanzees and
humans different sounds (i.e. different categories), but there is no basis
for considering that those categories are “syllable,” “vowel,” or “consonant”
496 S . B A L A R I , A . B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O , V. M . L O N G A , A N D G . L O R E N Z O
for a chimpanzee. The same reasoning applies to the case under discussion:
do the acoustic analyses mean that [ba] and [pa] were actually two different
syllables for Heidelbergensis or Neanderthals? They certainly were different
sounds, because categorical perception is shared within the primate lineage
(and also by birds). But more evidence is needed in order to determine
whether what are syllables for us were also syllables for those hominids.
Auditory capacities are moot regarding linguistic capacities, and conse-
quently the reconstruction of auditory capacities from fossil remains does
not constitute informative evidence for language evolution.
25.2.2.3 Methodological caveats of fossil evidence: The
form–function problem
The two examples discussed in Sections 25.2.2.1. and 25.2.2.2. show that
the fossil record cannot shed much light on the linguistic or communica-
tive skills of a given species. Certainly, some conclusions derived from the
formal analysis of the design of an organ are reliable. For example, that is
the case of Weaver and Hublin’s (2009) analysis of birth in Neanderthals
from the reconstruction of a female pelvis found at Tabun. In this case,
inferences about the birth derive from mechanical considerations which
have a universal validity.
However, the reliability of inferences is dramatically reduced, as we
have shown, when we try to attribute mental or behavioral capacities to
a given species from its anatomy or morphology. The reason is that mor-
phological considerations are opaque with regard to the functionality of
the structures involved. We shall call this the “form–function problem,”
which can be formulated as follows: a species S could have a morphologi-
cal structure which is related to a function F in other species, but this does
not necessarily mean that such a structure is related to the same function
in species S.
Let us develop the argument further. The absence of an anatomical
support could be used as a proof of the absence of a specific biological
function, as formalized in A:
(A) If an extant species ES has an anatomical structure S related to a
function F, and we find a fossil species FS lacking A, we can infer that FS
did not have F.
However, even (A) should be taken with caution, as shown by the discus-
sion about Neanderthal speech; let us remember that, according to Fitch
(2009a), Neanderthals could have spoken even with a high larynx, in such a
way that it dynamically descended during the vocalizations.
But what cannot be maintained is the reverse:
(B) If we find a fossil species FS with an anatomical structure S similar or
equal to S in extant species ES, and S is related to function F in ES, we can
assume that FS had F.
The fossils of language 497
To show why (B) is untenable, let us take up again the discussion about the
perceptual system, but now from the articulatory perspective. Even assum-
ing the morphological sameness between a Neanderthal vocal tract and a
modern one, this does not answer the question whether this tract actually
externalized utterances with the properties of linguistic sequences.
Assuming that Neanderthals could pronounce [ba] or [pa], the key issue is
whether these elements were true syllables for them. It is not possible,
therefore, to attribute functions to structures on the sole basis that those
structures are shared.
Another example may clarify our claim. Anatomical evidence suggests
that pterosaurs had wings. Because the majority of vertebrates with wings
fly, we could be tempted to assume that pterosaurs flew. However, wings
are not enough for an animal to be able to fly; many other requirements
(physical, mechanical, etc.) must be fulfilled. Therefore, pterosaurs could
have the relevant anatomical structure for flight and even so they may not
have been able to fly: interestingly, this is what Sato et al. (2008, 2009)
suggest (but see Claessens et al. 2009 for the opposite conclusion, although
their answer is based on evidence linked to the respiratory system). Be that
as it may in this particular case, a morphological trait cannot be adduced as
proof for a capacity. Inferences based on arguments like (B) do not have a
general validity, and this follows even for seemingly clear cases.
In view of the indeterminacy of the fossil record, Fitch (2009a: 133)
suggests that “approaches based on DNA analysis offer far more promise
for dating key events in the evolution of speech and language.” However,
we believe that the conclusions arising from DNA analysis are not free
from the “form–function problem” either. We can illustrate this with an
example. Fitch (2009a: 133) quotes a paper by Krause et al. (2007) to support
his claim. From the analysis of two Neanderthals from El Sidrón Cave
(Spain), this paper discovered that the two mutations of FOXP2 believed
to be specific to modern humans were shared by Neanderthals. This discov-
ery suggests according to Krause et al. (2007: 1911) that “Whatever function
the two aminoacid substitutions might have for human language ability, it
was present not only in modern humans but also in late Neanderthals.” This
rationale is shared by Trinkaus (2007), d’Errico (2008), or Martı́nez et al.
(2008): if Neanderthals had the modern FOXP2 version, then they had lan-
guage (this inference, by the way, relies on the unwarranted assumption that
FOXP2 is the unique and direct gene responsible for language). However,
Krause et al.’s (2007) finding does not tell us anything about the linguistic
capacities of that species. In fact, this inference is based on the same type of
problematic assumption raised by (B).
According to Benı́tez Burraco et al. (2008), the two aminoacid substitu-
tions could have been selected in Neanderthals, as argued for by Krause
et al. (2007), but its fixation could be related to selective causes different
from those which operated in AMH, that is, to causes unrelated to complex
language, a possibility also envisaged by Ptak et al. (2009). The key to settle
498 S . B A L A R I , A . B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O , V. M . L O N G A , A N D G . L O R E N Z O
the function of FOXP2 in that species is not, as Krause et al. (2007: 1911)
claim, to get the complete sequence of FOXP2 in Neanderthals, but rather
to obtain information about the genetic context in which the gene dis-
played its regulatory function in this species (Spiteri et al. 2007 for modern
humans). Within a different genetic context, it could have helped regulate
the development and/or execution of a non-syntactic protolanguage
(Mellars 1996a, 1998) or some other form of quasi-musical vocalizations
(Mithen 2005), among many other conceivable possibilities.
Relevant with regard to this idea is the fact that different FOXP2 ortho-
logues have been described for several species and associated with a dis-
tinctive ability in each case: bird song (Haesler et al. 2004, 2007), ultrasonic
vocalization in mice (Shu et al. 2005; Fujita et al. 2008), or eco-location in
bats (Li et al. 2007). It also is worth noting the high degree of conservation
of this gene (Enard et al. 2002), which has experienced very few evolu-
tionary changes within vertebrates. Thus, the ability with which each
FOXP2 orthologue relates in each species is a function of the molecular
context in which the protein coded by the gene integrates in each
particular case, and not of minor structural modifications experienced
by its different variants. Accordingly, the finding of Krause et al. (2007) is
compatible with alternative interpretations to that of complex language in
Neanderthals. In fact, Konopka et al. (2009) show that the two aminoacids
which differentiate the human FOXP2 gene from the chimpanzee version
change the function of the gene by conferring differential transcriptional
regulation in vitro. This paper identified 61 genes upregulated and 55
downregulated by FOXP2, compared to the chimpanzee version of the
corresponding regulatory cascade. The key would be to know whether in
the Neanderthal version the direct FOXP2 targets were the same, but this
information is wanting.
25.2.3 Fossil evidence of conceptualization systems
Although not every aspect of thought requires language (Carruthers 2002),
a consensus exists in Paleoanthropology concerning the impossibility of
developing complex symbolic practices in the absence of a complex
language: “Abstract and symbolic behaviors imply language” (McBrearty
and Brooks 2000: 486; see also d’Errico et al. 2005: 19–20; d’Errico and
Henshilwood 2011; Henshilwood et al. 2002: 1279; Henshilwood and
Dubreuil 2009; and Renfrew and Morley 2009). We will not question here
the validity of this claim (but see Balari et al. 2010, 2011 for some critical
remarks) and we will limit ourselves to accept and apply the logic of this
assumption as it is traditionally elaborated in the fields of paleoanthro-
pology and archaeology. The reasons that are traditionally adduced are
that symbolic practices must be supported by a powerful representational
(and communicative) system like language, which makes it possible to
transcend the here and now (Bickerton 1990; Dennett 1995, 1996, Jerison
The fossils of language 499
1985). Language enables not only displaced representations but also rep-
resentations lacking any correlate in the world: therianthrope beings, the
Beyond, etc. This power is greatly improved by syntax, which generates
complex representations by combining simpler ones. Thus, language
seems to stress the evolutionary meaning of encephalization: the capacity
of processing and interpreting the information an organism has access to,
in order to build a mental model of the world (Jerison 1973, 1985). As
Jerison (1985: 31) put it, “We create worlds with language.”
Thus, the search for symbolism in the hominid archaeological record
could be informative about language. In this sense, given (1) the wide
range of symbolic objects associated with AMH, many of them having no
correlate in the empirical world (and attested in Africa much earlier than in
Europe), and (2) the multiple indicators of modern behavior (McBrearty and
Brooks 2000: 492; Henshilwood and Marean 2003: 628; Klein 2009: 742;
Tattersall 1998: Chapter 1), also associated to AMH, all scholars agree that
AMH possessed a complex (i.e. syntactic) language from very early stages.
AMH’s symbolic behavior, which dates back 100 ka or even more, com-
prises different kinds of objects and behaviors. From Mellars’s (2002)
typology (see also Bar-Yosef 2002: 365 ff.; Klein 2009: 673; Mellars 2005:
13), we will restrict ourselves to the following ones:
* symbolic burials, as attested by funerary offerings
* symbolic use of ochre and pigments
* personal ornaments (shell beads, perforated animal teeth, pendants,
etc.)
* musical instruments
* several forms of art
What about earlier hominids? Are there traces of symbolism in the
archaeological remains associated with them? More specifically, what
about Neanderthals, who coexisted with AMH in Europe at least for 10
ka? Despite controversial claims to the contrary (Trinkaus 2007; d’Errico
2009; see Balari et al. 2008 for a critical appraisal), symbolic evidence is
conspicuously absent. We will briefly discuss these in turn.
BURIALS Neanderthals practiced intentional burials, some of them older
than 100 ka (Grün and Stringer 2000). However, unlike AMH burials,
Neanderthal burials do not include any remains which can be unequivo-
cally interpreted as offerings (Ayala and Cela Conde 2006: 108; Arsuaga
1999: 344; Davidson 2003: 154; Mellars 1996a). Although d’Errico (2003:
196) takes this difference to be “the only difference,” such a difference is
crucial: it is the only one which could be the testimony of true complex
symbolic behavior, the Beyond (life after death). In the absence of mortu-
ary offerings, an intentional burial is compatible with interpretations
lacking a true symbolic meaning, like hygienic reasons, to avoid the
presence of carnivores in the cave (Mithen 1996; Klein and Edgar 2002;
500 S . B A L A R I , A . B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O , V. M . L O N G A , A N D G . L O R E N Z O
Neanderthal burials have always been found within caves), social or emo-
tional links (Mellars 1996a), or the importance of the ancestors (Mithen
1996).
OCHRE AND PIGMENTS The utilization of ochre and pigments was
widespread more than 200 ka ago in South and Central Africa (McBrearty
and Brooks 2000). However, there are no hints of their symbolic use earlier
than 100–90 ka ago (Hovers et al. 2003), by AMH at Qafzeh (Israel). d’Errico
et al. (2003: 55) point out that the first use of pigments where “symbolic
behavior can be inferred” is more recent, dating back to 77 ka at Blombos
Cave (see Henshilwood et al. 2002). Before, ochre and pigments in Africa
and Europe “do not, in themselves, signify symbolic behavior” (d’Errico
et al. 2003: 55). Neanderthals used pigments (for a recent discovery, see
Zilhão et al. 2009), even intensively in some Mousterian sites (Pech-de-
l’Azé, 60–50 ka; see d’Errico 2003); but they were much less selective
with the raw materials from which pigments were extracted, and selec-
tiveness is taken to be a key indicator for the symbolic use of pigments to
be inferred. Furthermore, Neanderthal pigments were generally black,
whereas in Africa the red color is abundant, and this color is taken to be
a clear hint of the symbolic utilization of the pigment (Mithen 2005).
ORNAMENTS A wide consensus exists in Paleoanthropology in considering
personal ornaments (perforated marine shells or teeth, ostrich egg-shell
beads, pendants; for a technical survey of shell objects, see Claasen 1998)
as a sign of symbolism and modern cognitive capacity (Henshilwood and
Dubreuil 2009: 50, d’Errico et al. 2003: 17). The oldest ornaments were
made by AMH; for example, the perforated shells found at Skhul, Israel
(135–100 ka; Vanhaeren et al. 2006), Grotte des Pigeons, Morocco (82 ka;
Bouzouggar et al. 2007) or Blombos (78–75 ka; d’Errico et al. 2005). As for
Neanderthals, they did not produce any ornaments before the end of the
Mousterian (Arsuaga 1999: 371; d’Errico 2003, 1999; d’Errico et al. 2005: 20;
McBrearty and Brooks 2000: 521); see, however, Zilhão et al. (2009) for an
opposite view. Many earlier Neanderthal objects which had been described
as ornaments “are actually the result of natural phenomena” (d’Errico
2003: 198). Neanderthal ornaments are restricted to a few late sites, espe-
cially Chatelperronian sites (Grotte-du-Renne or Quinçay, France).
According to the great majority of scholars, these ornaments are the
product of an acculturation scenario, through contact with AMH popula-
tions already present in Europe.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS Another relevant proxy for symbolic activity is
music. There exists a substantial archaeological record of musical instru-
ments made by AMH in the Upper Palaeolithic (Cross et al. 2002, d’Errico
et al. 2003, Fitch 2006), especially bone (and ivory) flutes, some of them
dating back to more than 35 ka (Conard et al. 2009: 737). This shows “a well-
established musical tradition at the time when modern humans colonized
The fossils of language 501
Europe” (Conard et al. 2009: 737). No evidence exists for Neanderthal
instruments (nor instruments of other species). Many perforated animal
bones (especially phalanges) at Middle Palaeolithic sites were considered
flutes, but subsequent analyses (see Chase 1990) showed that the perfora-
tions were carnivore punctures. The same applies to the putative
Neanderthal flute at Divje Babe, Slovenia (50–35 ka; Turk 1997): its holes
were pierced by the teeth of perhaps a cave bear (d’Errico et al. 1998a;
Chase and Nowell 1998). To sum up, evidence of Neanderthal musical
instruments “is lacking” (Conard et al. 2009: 737; see also Mithen 2005
and d’Errico et al. 2003).
ART The origin of art is also clearly associated to AMH. There is no evidence
for art in earlier hominids, but with AMH this trait becomes general first in
Africa and later in Europe. Many, and very sophisticated, forms of art
appear, both of the parietal and mobile kinds (on mobile art, see
Barandiarán 2006). Two pieces of ochre engraved with geometric designs
found at Blombos Cave, which imply “conventions unrelated to reality-
based cognition” (Henshilwood et al. 2002: 1279) are considered the oldest
art samples (Lewis-Williams 2002; Mellars 2002; Davidson 2003: 155), and
the oldest symbols (Mithen 2005, d’Errico et al. 2003; but see Henshilwood
et al. 2009 for some purportedly older engraved pieces of ochre). It is worth
noting that art appears in other continents as the African populations
reach them (Sanchidrián 2001: 40). This applies even for traditionally
unattended archaeological records, such as the Australian one (see Balme
et al. 2009; Brumm and Moore 2005).
Therefore, symbolic activity (and modern behavior) is linked to AMH
and arises in the African Middle Stone Age. This contrast is clearly per-
ceived when comparing Neanderthals and AMH in Europe. Differences
between European Middle and Upper Palaeolithic are well known (Bar-
Yosef 1998, 2002; Gamble 1999; Klein 1995, 2000, 2009; Klein and Edgar
2002; Knecht et al. 2003; Kuhn and Stiner 2006; Mellars 1989, 1994, 1996a,
1996b, 1998, 2002, 2005; Mellars and Stringer 1989; Mithen 1996, 2005;
Pfeiffer 1982; Tattersall 1998; White 1982; Wynn and Coolidge 2004, etc.).
Behavioral modernity (be it technological, symbolic or social) concurs in
Europe with the first appearance of AMH in this area, but it is absent in the
many Mousterian sites of the Middle Palaeolithic. With regard to symbols,
Mithen (2007b: 321) claims that although some Neanderthal objects have
been argued to have symbolic meaning, “these are so rare, so varied in
nature, and so unconvincing that they provide an insufficient basis for the
inference of symbolic thought.” All in all, this suggests a world-view and a
cognitive make-up lacking complex language.
Some papers (d’Errico 2003; d’Errico et al. 1998b; Zilhão et al. 2006)
have argued that several late Neanderthal cultures were modern:
Chatelperronian (south of France and north of Spain) and its equivalents
in other European areas, like Uluzzian (Italy) or Szeletian and Bohunician
502 S . B A L A R I , A . B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O , V. M . L O N G A , A N D G . L O R E N Z O
(Central Europe). For instance, Chatelperronian sites show elements
which were unknown in the Mousterian (blade technology, perforated or
grooved personal ornaments, etc.). The aforementioned papers defend an
independent invention of such objects, thus assuming that late
Neanderthals were both cognitively and behaviorally modern. However,
the majority of scholars reject that view (Klein 2003; Mellars 2005; see
Balari et al. 2008 for a review). It would certainly be odd that Neanderthals,
characterized by a static culture for more than 200 ka, became suddenly
innovative at almost exactly the point when AMH (among which those
objects are perfectly documented) were expanding across Europe. This
“impossible coincidence” (Mellars 2005) makes that thesis quite improb-
able. In addition, doubts have recently been raised about the association
between Neanderthals and both Chatelperronian (Higham et al. 2010;
Mellars 2010) and Uluzzian (Benazzi et al. 2011).
When analyzing the hominid archaeological record, it is certain that a
methodological caveat should be taken into account: “absence of evidence
is not evidence of absence” (Proctor 2007: 752; see also O’Connell and
Allen 2007: 405; Guthrie 2005: 23; Mithen 2007b: 320). However, different
kinds of proxies indicate a generalized symbolism in AMH but its absence
in previous species. That converging evidence seems to suggest that the
most parsimonious hypothesis is that modern language (1) is a recent
evolutionary outcome linked to AMH, and (2) it appeared in the African
Middle Stone Age, perhaps coinciding with the speciation process that
gave rise to our species. This means that the archaeological record does
not support the gradualist scenario of language evolution argued for by
Pinker and Bloom (1990); see Bickerton (2002). If language evolution was
gradual, with many intermediate stages of increasing complexity selected
according to the fitness they conferred, it would also be expected that the
archaeological record would show a gradual emergence of modern behav-
ior and symbolism in different species. However, there are no hints of that
before AMH.
It is our opinion that the hypothesis that complex language was absent
before AMH, suggested by the analysis of symbolic evidence, could be
further strengthened by an examination of the technological domain
(Balari et al. 2008; Longa 2009; Balari et al. 2011). Although the possibility
of inferring cognitive and linguistic development from the analysis of the
technological record is controversial (Gibson and Ingold 1993: Part V), it is
well established that the prehistoric techno-complexes previous to AMH
show a strong stasis, i.e. lack of innovations for huge temporal periods.
Culture follows a continued and feedback-driven model (Dennett 1995,
Dunbar et al. 1999, Levinson and Jaisson 2006) as opposed to a static
perspective. According to Dennett (1995) language is the key for such a
model of change, because (1) it permits us to virtually explore new options,
and (2) it is a highly efficient tool for passing on and spreading innovations.
As Dennett (1995) puts it, language is the crane of culture. For those
The fossils of language 503
reasons, a complex (i.e. syntactical) language seems a key requirement for
non-static cultures. However, all the technological traditions before AMH
are very static in overall terms, and this is consistent with the lack of
complex language in them. A brief overview will serve as an illustration
(for a review of prehistoric technology, see Schick and Toth 1993; Toth and
Schick 1993).
The first techno-complex, Olduwan (2.6 my, million years; Lower
Palaeolithic and Early Stone Age) is based on a chopper industry which
does not shape the stone cores. The Olduwan shows a great uniformity in
space and time, such that it hardly shows any relevant improvements for
more than 1 my (Leakey 1981; Klein 2009: 256). The same applies to the
Acheulean techno-complex (Lower Palaeolithic and Early Stone Age).
It appears some 1.65 my ago, and, unlike the Olduwan, cores are carefully
carved and symmetrically shaped, as evidenced by bifaces. Acheulean
extended for more than 1 my; during this vast period of time, its basic
design remained nearly unchanged (Ingold 1993; Mithen 1996; Klein 2000;
Klein and Edgar 2002), in such a way that “assemblages separated by tens
or hundreds of thousand of years commonly differ little if at all” (Klein
2009: 378). In fact, bifaces are, according to Wynn (1996: 273), one of the
greatest prehistoric enigmas, due to the technique’s basic uniformity.
Recent remarks about two Acheulean periods for biface carving (bifaces
of the second period being more symmetric and thinner; see Klein and
Edgard 2002: 108–109 and 141–142) do not contradict the “remarkably
conservative” nature of such a complex (Klein and Edgar 2002: 107).
Therefore, “artifactual change during the long Acheulean time span was
extremely slow, and overall, Acheulean people seem to have been nearly
as conservative as their Oldowan predecessors” (Klein 2000: 23).
The Mousterian complex (Middle Palaeolithic and Middle Stone Age)
appears around 300–250 ka ago. Its distinctive feature is that core carving
(biface) is in general abandoned, and lithic industry becomes based
on flakes detached from the core. Mousterian is mainly characterized by
the very complex Levallois reduction technique, by which flakes of pre-
determined size and shape are obtained through a meticulous previous
preparation of the core (Dibble and Bar-Yosef 1995). After its origin (it
sporadically appears in the Acheulean, but it only generalizes in the
Mousterian) stasis prevails again for 200 ka, in such a way that this com-
plex “is remarkably uniform through time and space” (Klein 2009: 500). To
put it in Mithen’s (2007b: 323) words, “The tools they [Neanderthals]
made . . . 250,000 years ago were effectively no different than those at the
moment of their extinction, just under 30,000 years ago” (see Coolidge and
Wynn 2004: 61). That is, Neanderthals lack “conscious experimentation and
creativity” (Wynn and Coolidge 2004: 476), and it is perhaps not difficult to
associate this aspect with the absence of complex language.
However, this picture changes dramatically with AMH. Although they
first use Mousterian techniques, they develop in the Middle Stone Age an
504 S . B A L A R I , A . B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O , V. M . L O N G A , A N D G . L O R E N Z O
unprecedented technology, as testified by South African sites like Klasies
River Mouth (elongated blades of the Howieson’s Poort industries) or
Blombos (microliths). In addition, new raw materials are used to produce
tools. The main point is that, contrary to the static nature of prior com-
plexes, with AMH a very quick succession of industries is observed; for
example, in the Nile valley six clearly differentiated lithic industries follow
one another between 40–17 ka. A quite similar pattern is seen in Europe
between 40–11 ka: each stage (Aurignacian, Gravettian, Solutrean,
Magdalenian) possesses tools which are absent or only rarely attested in
the other stages, and even specific subcultures exist within them (Klein
2009: 662). That is, the rhythm of technological invention is unprece-
dented (Tattersall 1998: Chapter 1).
Summarizing then, it seems to us that the archaeological evidence
makes it difficult to infer the existence of complex (i.e. syntactic) language
before AMH.
25.2.4 Fossil evidence of computational capabilities
Archaeological remains have usually been regarded from the perspective
of the behavior they may be associated with (symbolic, technological,
etc.). It is also possible to consider them from the perspective of the
computational processes and capabilities required for their production.
Chomsky’s hierarchy (Chomsky 1956, 1959b) may be a useful tool for that
perspective to be developed (Piattelli-Palmarini and Uriagereka 2005;
Camps and Uriagereka 2006; see O’Donnell et al. 2005 for its application
to non-human species). The hierarchy establishes four levels of increas-
ing complexity: type 3 (finite state systems), type 2 (context-free systems),
type 1 (context-sensitive systems, natural language being within this
type) and type 0 (unrestricted systems). Given that each level of complex-
ity involves more computational power, “By finding the fossilized
remains of such behaviors we can at least surmise the computational
complexity in the minds of their executors” (Piattelli-Palmarini and
Uriagereka 2005: 41).
Piattelli-Palmarini and Uriagereka (2005) and Camps and Uriagereka
(2006) propose an intriguing hypothesis, which could help determine
those computational capabilities: to analyze evidence for knotting in the
archaeological record from the view of Chomsky’s hierarchy. Knots are
very complex cognitive operations; consequently, whoever made them
could think in context-sensitive terms (and, plausibly, could also external-
ize that kind of thought). Thus, knotting may be an indirect evidence for
fully modern syntactic behavior. According to both papers, a knot requires
applying an operation on previously computed operations, which must be
kept in the working memory until the overlapping needed for knotting is
made (see Camps and Uriagereka 2006: 46–51). That means that a
sophisticated working memory is needed for the derivational record to
The fossils of language 505
be kept (see Balari and Lorenzo 2009a for the phylogenetic relationship
between working memory and context-sensitivity). Such a procedure, of
the type [A1 [B [C D1]]], implies context-sensitivity in the Chomsky
hierarchy sense. The capacity to process that kind of long-distance
relationship is a formal property which pervades language (agreement,
coreference, displacement, operator-variable relationships, and so on).
Therefore, “evidence for knot-tying is computationally equivalent to
modern linguistic evidence” (Camps and Uriagereka 2006: 46).
Knots are not attested until 27 ka BP, by means of weaving, but they can
be inferred long before (Piattelli-Palmarini and Uriagereka 2005: 41;
Camps and Uriagereka 2006: 35). Both papers concentrate on two domains
which presuppose knots: (1) purposefully perforated ornaments (beads,
teeth, shells, etc.) to be hung to the body or to be sown, and (2) small
projectile technology (arrow heads, arches, harpoons). The oldest evidence
for those objects is about 90–75 ka (but see Vanhaeren et al. 2006). This
suggests that AMH “had achieved modern language by that time, with its
full-blown context-sensitive potential” (Piattelli-Palmarini and Uriagereka
2005: 42). However, no evidence for knots is found among Neanderthals:
Mousterian projectile technology implies hafting, not knotting, and
Neanderthals did not make personal ornaments until a later stage, when
AMH had reached Europe (Zilhão et al. 2009 report the discovery of
Neanderthal perforated shells of more than 50 ka found at Aviones site,
Spain, but the fact that perforations are due to natural causes does not
invite us to associate these ornaments with capabilities of such high
computational complexity). According to both papers, the absence of
knotting may suggest that the Neanderthal mind lacked context-
sensitivity, a key property of language. Such a proposal fits in well with
other proposals (d’Errico et al., 2005, Henshilwood et al. 2002; Henshilwood
and Dubreuil 2009) that, for different reasons, sustain the existence of a
fully syntactical language 80–70 ka ago.
In addition, the knotting hypothesis converges with frameworks which
emphasize an enhancement of the working memory in AMH, like Balari
and Lorenzo (2009a), Russell (1996), Donald (1991), or especially, Coolidge
and Wynn (2004, 2005, 2009), and Wynn and Coolidge (2004, 2007).
Coolidge and Wynn (2004) analyze some objects of the Chatelperronian
culture (see above) which are unknown in the Mousterian stage (perfo-
rated or grooved ornaments, blade technology, etc.). Many scholars
consider that Neanderthals imitated these objects from AMH, who already
inhabited Europe. However, Coolidge and Wynn qualify this view with
their claim that Neanderthal thought was based on an expert (skilled)
cognition, which implies “schemata encoded into long-term memory
and activated easily with minimal on-line processing” (Coolidge and
Wynn 2004: 62). They go on to argue that “expert cognition lacks the
dynamic, on-the-spot problem solving that is enabled by enhanced work-
ing memory” (ibid.).
506 S . B A L A R I , A . B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O , V. M . L O N G A , A N D G . L O R E N Z O
According to them, these objects were not imitated by Neanderthals but
emulated, meaning that “the subject understands the goal but applies his
or her procedure for achieving it” (Coolidge and Wynn 2004: 66).
Emulation is the expected procedure if Neanderthals actually had a
reduced working memory: they would try to produce these objects accord-
ing to their own techniques and procedures (see Coolidge and Wynn 2004
on the different technique for the blades, and Balari et al. 2008 on the
meaning of the abundance of grooved – not perforated – teeth). That is,
these objects could be the result of adjusting the pieces to the Neanderthal
technical intelligence. One is thus tempted to equate Coolidge and Wynn’s
proposal to the absence of the appropriate computational capabilities in
the relevant domains as argued for by Piattelli-Palmarini and Uriagereka
(2005) and Camps and Uriagereka (2006).
25.3 Brain evolution and the evolution of language
Brain tissue does not fossilize, but cranial fossils provide valuable infor-
mation related both with the size and structural organization of hominid
brains. However, the interpretation of these data is not self-evident with-
out certain assumptions on the significance of the homological relations
that can be established between brain structures in different species and
on the nature of the form/function relation that holds in any anatomical
structure including, of course, brain structures. In this section, we try to
make explicit some of these assumptions. We further argue that inde-
pendently established principles concerning the reorganization of brain
structure as a function of its development constitutes another key piece
in order to elucidate the evolutionary origins of language. We conclude
that once all these pieces are put together a picture of language evolution
emerges in which the evidence derived from cranial fossils, archaeolog-
ical remains, and genomic deciphering and clock techniques fits
coherently.
25.3.1 Homologous structures of the neuronal substrate of language
The notion of homology refers to comparable organic characters on the
basis of their common development, composition, localization, or con-
nections (identification criteria) in species within the same monophyletic
group (homology criterion) (Hall 1994; Owen 1843, 1848; Wagner 1989a,
1989b). From this definition, one can easily appreciate that this is an
“adjustable” concept allowing one to apply either a strict perspective,
focusing on phyletic groups with a relatively close common ancestor
(e.g., hominids or primates), or a wider perspective, focusing on groups
whose common ancestor may be relatively distant (e.g., mammals or
vertebrates). Now, research on homologous structures of the neuronal
The fossils of language 507
substrate of language is often based on a strict application of the homology
concept, perhaps on the grounds that the human specificity of this
biological character does not call for an extension of the comparison
beyond the last common ancestor of hominids or, at most, primates. In
what follows, however, we will try to show that the quest for homologies
of the neuronal substrate of human language may actually benefit from
the application of the wider perspective we referred to above (deep
homology; Shubin et al. 1997, 2009; also Shubin 2008 and Gould 2002,
Chapter 10, for an overview).
From the point of view of the strictest application of the notion, the
search for homologies of the neuronal substrate of language has been
centered on the attribution of equivalences to the classical areas for
language (Broca’s and Wernicke’s) to different hominid species, on the
basis of data derived from the inspection of prints left by these brain
areas in the interior of fossil crania. From this analysis, some authors
have felt inclined to attribute to some Australopithecine species the
presence of clear homologues of Broca’s area, while also finding evidence
suggesting a reorganization in H. habilis of the parieto-temporal area
where Wernicke’s area is localized (Holloway 1983; Tobias 1983, 1987).
It is not at all clear, however, what the real significance of these findings
would be. On the one hand, and applying the “adjusting” principle
of homology to the primate lineage, these prints may also be related to
homologous areas with no linguistic specialization, such as cortical areas
44 and 45 (Broca) and the temporoparietal auditory area (Wernicke) in
monkeys (Preuss and Goldman-Rakic 1991a, 1991b; Pandya 1995;
Rizzolatti and Arbib 1998; Petrides and Pandya 1999; Wu et al. 2000;
Petrides and Pandya 2001; also Striedter 2005, Chapter 8, for an over-
view). On the other hand, as pointed out for example by Striedter (2005), a
much more informative datum concerning the linguistic specialization
of these areas would be their interconnection, which, unfortunately,
cannot leave any fossil trace, as they are interconnected by non-
superficial cortical fibers, and only recently have we come to know that
even the most commonly accepted hypothesis about their interconnec-
tion is false (Bernal and Ardila 2009).
A possible strategy to avoid this empirical cul-de-sac would consist in
paying attention to a different datum, well-attested in the hominid fossil
record, despite the fact that its significance is even more debated than that
of the putative homologues of the language centers. The evidence in
question concerns the successive increments of brain size observed in
hominid evolution, both in absolute terms and in relation to body size
(encephalization quotient; Jerison 1973), a distinction that nevertheless loses
much of its force once a comparative approach is applied to species with
close evolutionary origins (Striedter 2005).
508 S . B A L A R I , A . B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O , V. M . L O N G A , A N D G . L O R E N Z O
25.3.2 A (plausible) evolutionary scenario for the neuronal
substrate of language
What, then, is revealed by a sequence of fossil crania belonging to different
hominid species that either coexisted or succeeded each other in time?
Essentially, a series of bursts that affect brain size in the hominid
lineage (Collard 2002; Kappelman 1996). The first of these bursts took
place during the evolution of H. habilis, a species that differs little from
Australopithecines in the remainder of its anatomical features. Similar
bursts are observed to correlate with the evolution of H. erectus (but not
with H. ergaster, its putative African ancestor), and with that of the com-
mon ancestor to H. neanderthalensis and H. sapiens sapiens. Although it is
often assumed that brain size constitutes too rough a kind of evidence
(Ayala and Cela Conde 2006), and that its actual correlation with the
evolution of some particular aspect of cognition (or with cognition as a
whole; Falk 1990) is dubious, our understanding is nevertheless that brain
size is highly significative in the context of the “size-driven view of verte-
brate brain evolution” (Striedter 2005). This framework makes it possible
to delineate a plausible scenario for the evolution of language in such
terms that the data presented in Section 25.2, far from being disproved,
may instead be of some significance.
This point of view of brain evolution is based on two fundamental
theses: (1) all brains follow a highly conservative basic structural type;
and (2) brains tend to reorganize themselves internally in characteristic
ways and according to variation in terms of size. As for the second thesis,
some principles of brain reorganization that have been proposed are, for
example: that brains tend to be subdivided into more areas or activity
nuclei as they grow in size (Ebbesson 1980), and that each of these areas
tends to show a higher degree of lamination than the one that precedes it
(Bullock and Horridge 1965; Strausfeld et al. 2000); that brain growth tends
to foster the mutual invasion of areas and nuclei of activity as these acquire
larger proportions (Deacon 1990a, 1990b); or that late-maturing brain
areas tend to grow larger (Finlay and Darlington 1995). As for the first
thesis, and for the purposes of this section, it is particularly relevant to
emphasize the distinction between the basal and the cortical components
of the brain, while keeping in mind that the equivalent in terms of
activity of the latter (see below) often is a highly hypertrophied component
of the pallium with which basal ganglia establish most of their con-
nectional pathways – thus, for example, the dorsal ventricular ridge in
birds, which is anatomically homologous to the amygdala and the pallial
claustrum in mammals, of which the neocortex is an integral part
(Striedter 2005).
The preceding discussion suggests an evolutionary scenario for the
neuronal substrate of language that may easily be summarized by saying
that language is an effect of increase in brain size at a critical point during
The fossils of language 509
hominid evolution. This critical point meant, on the one hand, the
habilitation of the cortical mass required for executing the necessary
computations (Section 25.2.4), and, on the other hand, the overlapping
(via connectional invasion) of such greatly disjoint brain areas. From this time
on, these areas were capable of performing a qualitatively new kind of
mental activity, giving rise to new and unique forms of behavior in the
organic world (Section 25.2.3) (Balari and Lorenzo 2008, 2009a). The data
discussed in Section 25.2 suggest that this whole process of brain reorgan-
ization with the mentioned consequences culminated no earlier than the
emergence of AMH.
25.3.3 The evo-devo paradigm, the evolution of the brain,
and the evolution of language
The scenario sketched above fits naturally in the scientific paradigm
of what nowadays is known as evolutionary developmental biology
(evo-devo; Carroll 2005b; Hall 1999; Minelli 2007). The basic premises of
this framework may be summarized by the idea that evolution cannot be
seen as a constant diversification process affecting adult phenotypes only,
but as a process of diversification and substitution of the developmental
patterns leading to these phenotypes. Paraphrasing the words of William
Bateson (1894), phylogeny is not a sequence of adult organisms, but a
series of complete ontogenies succeeding each other in time. More
concretely, nowadays we are in a position to state that the idea that the
phylogeny of the human brain may be explained as the result of a number
of perturbations affecting its developmental pattern is far more than
speculation.
In the development of the human brain we observe a general pattern of
late offset of the process (peramorphosis by late offset or hypermorphosis; Gould
1977; McKinney 2000; Parker and McKinney 1999), which can be held
responsible for its relatively large size with respect to other, closely related
species, and which triggers a series of reorganizational events like those
described in Section 25.3.2 (Balari and Lorenzo 2009a). Indeed, we first
appreciate a late offset of the symmetric cellular division phase of neuro-
nal precursors, which gives rise to an overproliferation of these precursors
(Rakic and Kornack 2001); we observe, moreover, a late offset of cyto-
genesis, the phase starting with the onset of precursor production and
ending with the phase where a maximum number of divisions obtains and
cells do not divide further but migrate to the forming cortical structure
(Kaskan and Finlay 2001). This late offset of cytogenesis causes an
exponential growth of the cortical structure, while, at the same time,
basal structures and the medulla only grow linearly. Concerning the
developmental pattern of human brains, other phenomena have also
been described associated with this hypermophic tendency, such as the
extension of fetal growth, of cortex myelinization (especially in the frontal
510 S . B A L A R I , A . B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O , V. M . L O N G A , A N D G . L O R E N Z O
cortex), and of dendritic growth (Deacon 2000a). Taken together, these
data suggest that during the evolutionary configuration of the human
brain, some specific mutations affecting genes involved in the regulation
during development of such processes as proliferation, division, migra-
tion, and growth of neural cells must have been crucial. In Section 25.4.1
we point out some possible candidates.
It is also important to assess the role of the reorganizational processes
that, inevitably, accompanied this growth, such as the subdivision of the
cortex in well-differentiated areas, a streamlining of lamination, area
overlapping, and the cortical invasion of basal and medullar structures,
because it cannot have been the consequence of natural selection acting
over randomly generated variation, but a direct and spontaneous effect of
the critical cortical mass attained at some point in brain growth. This is not
to exclude that such effects may later have been the target of selection of
the genetic variants capable of stabilizing and consolidating these results,
independently of those attained through phenotypic plasticity (West-
Eberhard 2003). In the light of this discussion, one is tempted to attribute
the remarkable difference between cognition and behavior in H. neander-
thalensis and in H. sapiens sapiens (see Section 25.2) precisely to these genetic
accommodation processes, given the fact that such differences are not
expected on the basis of brain-size alone (Collard 2002). In contrast, some
recently unveiled disparities in subtle anatomical details (Peña-Meilán et al.
2011) and in the early developmental path (Gunz et al. 2010) of the organ in
both species seem more congenial with our approach.
25.3.4 The evolution of the neuronal substrate of language:
the form–function problem revisited
Even with all that has been said above, we are still in the dark as to how a
complex linguistic faculty actually emerged in the human brain, although
we are now in a much better position to point at some factors that may
have played a crucial role in this process.
Firstly, the growth of the cerebral cortex may have provided the neces-
sary working memory space to carry out the complex computations
required for language, such as the hierarchical structuring of expressions
and the introduction of long-distance and crossed dependencies between
elements (Balari et al. 2011; Balari and Lorenzo 2008, 2009a; Uriagereka
2008). Essentially, the preceding discussion would imply that, once a
critical point was attained, the sequences generated in the basal ganglia
(a relatively conservative component; Cummings 1993) could have been
subject to mental manipulations well beyond a strictly lineal computa-
tional regime. This idea, deeply indebted to Lieberman’s (2006) model of
the grammar of the basal ganglia, is not at odds with similar events in other
species, and it is thus entirely compatible with the possibility that a
hypertrophy of the brain, not necessarily affecting cortical areas (see
The fossils of language 511
Section 25.3.2), could have given rise to an extended working memory
space. In fact, this could be the case, for example, with some avian species
(Balari and Lorenzo 2008, 2009a) with respect to their construction
behavior (Hansell 2000).
Secondly, the stabilization and consolidation of the overlapping of
certain structurally and functionally independent areas brought about
by brain growth could have had the effect of transforming the described
computational system into a properly linguistic system, capable of acting
as an internal communication pathway between sensorimotor special-
ized areas and those areas devoted to conceptualization and intention
fixation. It is this latter aspect that endows the system of linguistic
computations with an unequivocally linguistic character, in the sense
that other similar systems, such as the one underlying building or nest-
ing abilities in some bird species, although showing comparable compu-
tational capabilities, appear to instantiate a much more localized and
specific kind of connectivity with the overall brain architecture (Balari
and Lorenzo 2008, 2010b).
The ideas we have just sketched out have some additional and important
consequences taking us back to Section 25.3.1. Even though no clear fossil
evidence exists, it appears nevertheless to be true that language is not a
true exception in the natural world, and that its homologues may be found
in the most unexpected places within the animal lineage. The key to
accepting this contention presupposes not paying too much attention
to what other animals actually do when it comes to understanding
where language might have come from, but rather to how they are struc-
tured and how development structured and restructured their brains
(Balari and Lorenzo 2010a, 2010b). Once this point of view is accepted,
we immediately see deep homologies across the whole organic world,
homologies that we analyze from a molecular perspective in the following
section.
25.4 Molecular aspects of language evolution
The evidence discussed in Sections 25.3.2 and 25.3.3 points to the need to
determine whether the changes that took place in our evolutionary line-
age with respect to brain size and the interconnection patterns in specific
cortical and subcortical regions – presumably as a consequence of mod-
ifications affecting the brain’s developmental itineraries, with all of the
crucial implications of these changes for the emergence of language
(Section 25.3.4) – may eventually be associated to specific alterations in
the molecular mechanisms involved in the regulation of the brain’s ontog-
eny, and particularly to the positive selection of concrete changes in the
sequence of some specific genes.
512 S . B A L A R I , A . B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O , V. M . L O N G A , A N D G . L O R E N Z O
25.4.1 The evolution of (some) genes and the evolution of language
25.4.1.1 Genes involved in brain size regulation
There exists good evidence suggesting that genes may play an important
role in the regulation of brain size, in particular: (1) the remarkable
heritability that characterizes this parameter, which may be up to 90% in
the case of the whole brain and well beyond 80% for neocortical grey
matter (Baaré et al. 2001); (2) the presence of recurring patterns in cortical
histogenesis (Felleman and Van Essen 1991); and especially, as we discuss
below, (3) the confirmation that the mutation of certain genes gives rise
to a reduction of brain size.
During embryonic development, neurons are generated from pre-
cursors located in the pseudostratified epithelium. As pointed out in
Section 25.3.3, their population grows exponentially through successive
cycles of symmetrical divisions; a small alteration of the existing balance
between the factors determining the precursor’s polarity (and hence that
of the pattern of mitotic division) causes a change towards an asymmetric
cellular division, which regenerates the precursor but also originates a
neuron (Woods 2004). A number of genes have been characterized as
involved in this phase of the process of neurogenesis, whose mutation
brings about a reduction of brain size known as microcephaly. But,
whereas in some cases the mutation of the gene affects only the prolifer-
ation of neuroblasts, and therefore its phenotypic manifestation is essen-
tially constrained to microcephaly, in other cases as well certain additional
neuronal developmental programs are altered, such that not only is the
brain reduced in size, but its folding pattern also becomes modified
(Barkovich et al. 1998; Sztriha et al. 1999; ten Donkelaar 2000). Contrary
to what has been the case with the genes in this second group, some
specific mutations occurring in the sequences of genes in the first group
have been the focus of positive selection within our lineage (Gilbert et al.
2005). Current evidence concerning two of the better characterized genes
of the last type, MCPH1 and ASPM, suggests that this process could be
characterized as an instance of “mosaic evolution,” since some of the
functional domains in the corresponding proteins have been subject to a
significative evolution, while others remained virtually unaltered (Evans
et al. 2004a; Evans et al. 2004b; Kouprina et al. 2004; Wang and Su 2004).
MCPH1 appears to be involved in DNA repair (Xu et al. 2004) and in the
regulation of chromosome condensation during the cellular cycle
(Trimborn et al. 2004), such that its mutation would have effects on brain
size through an increase in the rate of cell death during neurogenesis (Gao
et al. 1998) and/or a reduction of the proliferation of neuronal precursors
during embryonic development (Hakem et al. 1996). This gene has under-
gone positive selection, which has been particularly strong within the
primate lineage that gave rise to Old World monkeys and higher apes
(Evans et al. 2004b; Wang and Su 2004). To this circumstance we should
The fossils of language 513
add the additional particularities that the most frequent haplotype in
human populations (D) has undergone a very recent positive selection
and that it could have arisen in an evolutionary line of hominids that
diverged from the one that eventually led to Homo sapiens around 1.1 my
ago; accordingly, its current presence in our genetic pool could be the
result of a later introgression that occurred some 40 ka ago (Evans et al.
2006). In any case, there does not seem to exist in modern human popula-
tions any remarkable correlation between the presence of this allele and
specific relevant cerebral features, either morphological or cognitive, such
as brain size (Woods et al. 2006) or intellectual quotient (Mekel-Bobrov
et al. 2007).
ASPM is involved in the maintenance of a symmetrical division pattern
of neuronal precursors (Woods 2004), plausibly due to its direct impli-
cation with the regulation of cytogenesis, as is the case in Drosophila
(González et al. 1990; Do Carmo Avides and Glover 1999; Riparbelli et al.
2002). Certain modifications that occurred in its sequence appear to have
been selected after the human lineage branched from the evolutionary
line leading to higher primates (Bond et al. 2002), although probably before
the out of Africa migration of Homo sapiens (Zhang 2003). For this reason,
some have speculated about the possibility that the modification of this
gene might correlate with some of the acceleration phases of brain growth
referred to in Section 25.3.2. As is the case with MCPH1, this gene appears
to be still evolving today (Mekel-Bobrov et al. 2005; Yu et al. 2007), although
in this case also there seems to be no positive correlation between certain
haplotypes and certain parameters linked to brain function and structure
(Woods et al. 2006; Mekel-Bobrov et al. 2007).
Two more genes have also been subject to positive selection in
the human lineage, i.e. CDK5RAP2 and CENPJ (Dorus et al. 2004), with the
particularity that, at least in the latter, the highest frequency of non-
synonymous substitutions has been detected in the terminal lineages of
humans and chimpanzees (Evans et al. 2006). While the function of the first
remains unknown (Ching et al. 2000), the second seems to encode a protein
involved in microtubule nucleation (Hung et al. 2000; Hung et al. 2004).
These four genes are responsible for a specific subtype of congenital
microcephaly known as primary microcephaly or microcephalia vera, where
severe neurological alterations or dysmorphic features are characteristi-
cally absent (Dobyns 2002), and in which the abnormal reduction in
cortical volume is specifically due to a decrease in the number of neurons
(Woods 2004). The atavic character of the phenotype associated with their
mutation is unquestionable. Moreover, the fact that this mutation is
linked to a noteworthy impairment of the subject’s cognitive capacities
(Dolk 1991; Cox et al. 2006) and that the reduction of brain size does not
substantially affect the histological organization of the cortex make these
genes ideal candidates at the time of inferring the first hominids’ cerebral
514 S . B A L A R I , A . B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O , V. M . L O N G A , A N D G . L O R E N Z O
characteristics and how these may have been modified within our evolu-
tionary lineage (Ponting and Jackson 2005).
The case of SHH is, however, slightly different, since individuals carrying
point mutations in this gene present a much more severe brain malforma-
tion than microcephaly, known as holoprosencephaly, which is plausibly
caused by an abnormal development of the ventral portion of the neural
tube (Roessler et al. 1996). Although the gene is highly conserved (Marigo
et al. 1995), it has nevertheless also been subject to positive selection
within the primate group (Dorus et al. 2004). The gene encodes one of the
inductive signals responsible for regulating embryonic organization and
morphology during the earlier stages of development, including, signifi-
cantly, the morphogenesis of the ventral region of the neural tube
(Echelard et al. 1993; Roelink et al. 1994). The gradient of the SHH protein
modulates the expression pattern of several other genes that encode
homeotic transcription factors, eventually contributing to the differentia-
tion and the specification of the identity of several types of neuronal
precursors (Ericson et al. 1996; Wilson and Maden 2005). This gene also
seems to participate in the regulation of axonal growth and synaptogenic
processes involved in the establishment of certain specific neuronal
circuits (Bourikas et al. 2005; Salie et al. 2005).
Other genes exist associated with neuronal proliferation which display an
accelerated evolution in the human lineage, in particular (i) CASP3, which
encodes a protease involved in the activation of apoptosis during the multi-
plication of neuronal precursors (Kuida et al. 1996), and (ii) ADCYAP1, which
appears to contribute to the modulation of these precursors’ transition to
differentiated neurons (Dicicco-Bloom et al. 1998; Mercer et al. 2004) and
whose mutation impairs some specific psychomotor capacities, at least
in certain model organisms (Hashimoto et al. 2001). The rate of non-
synonymous substitutions in the coding sequence of the latter gene appears
to have increased significantly after the branching of the evolutionary lines
leading respectively to our species and to chimpanzees (Wang et al. 2005).
It has been suggested that the increase in brain size that has gone on
throughout our evolutionary history would not have been due solely to the
mutation of genes specifically involved in the regulation of brain develop-
ment, like the ones so far described, but probably also to other kinds of
processes that would have fostered and/or caused it, in particular to a hypo-
trophy of the masticatory muscles with the net effect of altering the cranio-
facial morphology and reducing the tension exerted by the muscle fibers on
the cranial sutures, which coincide with the growth points of the immature
neurocranium (Warren et al. 2003). The inactivation of MYH16, which in the
other primate species is expressed in the muscles derived from the first
pharyngeal arch, that is, the masticatory muscles (Stedman et al. 2004), has
been pointed out as a possible cause of this hypotrophy. MYH16 encodes the
heavy-chain of the predominant myosin in these muscles, such that its
inactivation would bring about a notable reduction in the thickness of the
The fossils of language 515
muscle fibers and, consequently, in the size of the muscle itself (Stedman
et al. 2004). The mutation that inactivated the gene occurred some 2.4 my
ago, simultaneously with the appearance of the genus Homo, in which the
facial and cranial features associated with a reduced masticatory muscula-
ture can already be observed (Walker and Leakey 1993).
25.4.1.2 “Genes for language”
The complex process responsible for the structural and functional devel-
opment of the brain, and which starts with the proliferation of neuronal
precursors, is completed by the migration and the morphological and
functional specialization of the neurons that make it up, as well as with
the ultimate establishment of the necessary connections among them.
There are many genes involved in the regulation of such processes (see
Benı́tez Burraco 2009 for a review). Simultaneously, the genetic analysis of
hereditary cognitive disorders affecting language has made possible the
identification of numerous genes that participate in a more or less direct
manner in the organization and functioning of the neuronal circuits
devoted to linguistic processing. Some specific modifications observed in
the sequences of some of these genes have also been subject to positive
selection during the recent evolutionary history of our species, such that it
may well be possible that these changes have played an important role in
the evolution of the neural substrate of language. Moreover, in many cases
the homologous and orthologous genes are involved in the development
and functioning of neuronal structures presenting an unmistakable evolu-
tionary continuity with specific components of language and which there-
fore have received special attention in deep homology studies.
In this connection, obviously those genes whose mutation appears to
cause specific language impairments (in the sense that they are not linked
to neurological dysfunctions, mental retardation, broad cognitive deficits,
hearing deficits, or an inadequate or insufficient exposition to linguistic
stimuli during development) are of particular interest, in spite of the fact
that such specificity may be questionable at different levels of biological
complexity. Among them, the evolutionary path followed by FOXP2,
considered the “gene of language” par excellence, is the one which has
recently deserved most attention. The gene encodes a transcription factor
that appears to be involved in the regulation of the necessary neuronal
differentiation for the organization and/or the functioning of certain
cortico-thalamic-striatal circuits associated with motor planning, sequen-
tial behavior, and procedural learning, and whose mutation gives rise
to deficits of a varied nature and range, but with both a motor and a
linguistic character at the same time, affecting equally the receptive and
expressive components of language (for a review, see Marcus and Fisher
2003; Vargha-Khadem et al. 2005).
In spite of being highly conserved in evolutionary terms, within the line
leading to the human species the gene has suffered two mutations that
516 S . B A L A R I , A . B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O , V. M . L O N G A , A N D G . L O R E N Z O
have given rise to two non-synonymous changes in the sequence of the
protein it encodes. As already noted in Section 25.2.2.3., the timing and the
evolutionary meaning of these mutations are not at all clear. However,
consideration of the structural and functional properties of the corre-
sponding orthologous structure present in other (model) organisms is
contributing decisively to elucidate the function and the evolution of
this gene, and in particular to determine which of the previously discussed
scenarios is the most plausible one. In this respect, certain songbirds are of
a particular interest. Altogether, this kind of evidence appears to confirm:
(1) the phylogenetic conservation of the structures and neuronal circuits
with which the activity of the FOXP2 protein appears to be related; (2)
the fact that the gene would not only be involved in the development of
these circuits during the embryonic stage, but also in their functioning
in the adult organism; (3) the hypothesis that the gene’s mutation (and the
decrease in its expression levels) gives rise to dysfunctions in basic neuro-
biological processes (neuronal migration, synaptic plasticity, synaptic
integration); and (4) the hypothesis that these dysfunctions eventually
bring about disorders that are not just of a motor but also of a behavio-
ral/cognitive nature (Benı́tez Burraco 2008, for a review). The data we have
to date jointly suggest that the FOXP2 transcription factor must be very old
in evolutionary terms and that it plays a crucial (and substantially similar)
role in all vertebrates with respect to the regulation of both the develop-
ment of brain architecture (already at the initial phases of embryogenesis)
and the functioning of certain neuronal circuits in the adult stage
(Bonkowsky and Chien 2005). However, these data also suggest that,
simultaneously, this regulatory network might have been reused (with
slight modifications) in some species with different purposes. If FOXP2
has played a relevant role in the emergence of language (and that could
be the case), this role would not only be connected to a modification of the
mechanisms associated with the regulation of the development of certain
brain regions (and their structural and functional compartmentalization),
but also the regulation of those involved in the modulation of neuronal
plasticity associated with the learning of motor tasks (Fisher and Scharff
2009; White 2010).
For reasons similar to those adduced in the case of FOXP2, the analysis of
the evolutionary history of genes linked or associated to dyslexia is also
particularly interesting, specifically that of DYX1C1 and ROBO1. The former
has accumulated a significant number of mutations after the separation of
the evolutionary lines leading, respectively, to humans and the rest of the
higher primates (Taipale et al. 2003), whereas the latter appears to have
been subject to positive selection between 12 and 16 my ago, that is,
around the time that the branch of orangutans separated from the lineage
of gorillas, chimpanzees, and humans (Hannula-Jouppi et al. 2005). The
case of ROBO1 is particularly significative in connection with our discus-
sion in Section 25.4.1, as in this gene also some differences are observed
The fossils of language 517
between humans and chimpanzees with respect to the splicing patterns of
mRNA (Calarco et al. 2007). It is worth mentioning that other genes
involved in the regulation of axonal growth seem to have been positively
selected in the human lineage, as in the case of AH11, whose product
appears to participate in the redirection of axons from the brain to the
spinal cord and whose modification might be related to the evolution of
specific motor programs in our species (Ferland et al. 2004).
Several pieces of evidence point to the need to also consider, in any
genetic characterization of language, those genes implied in the devel-
opment and functioning of the brain whose mutation simultaneously
impairs linguistic competence and other cognitive capacities. This consid-
erably larger group encompasses numerous genes that have also experi-
enced a positive selection within the human lineage. Among them, the
case of LIS1 (PAFAH1B1) is particularly relevant. This gene is involved in the
regulation of neuronal migration and axonal growth (Smith et al. 2000;
Toyo-oka et al. 2003; Shu et al. 2004), and its mutation gives rise to a
reduction of brain size and, in particular, to different types of lissencepha-
lies (Reiner et al. 1993; Lo Nigro et al. 1997) with different degrees of impact
on linguistic abilities (Leventer et al. 2001).
Another particularly remarkable case is that of different typologies of
neurotransmitter receptors. Thus, there is evidence of an evolutionary
acceleration in the sequences of genes such as CHRM2, which encodes an
acetylcholine receptor of the muscarinic type; DRD2, which encodes a
member of the dopamine receptor family, and GRIK4, which encodes a
member of the kainate subtype of glutamate-gated ion channels (Dorus
et al. 2004). The mutation of similar genes significantly affects the develop-
ment and the functioning of language, and causes cognitive deficits in
which the impairment of linguistic competence is a relevant symptom.
Thus, for example, CHRNE, which encodes the e subunit of acetylcholine
receptor at mature mammalian neuromuscular junctions, is a possible
candidate for Asperger syndrome (locus ASPG2) (Tentler et al. 2003). DRD4,
on the other hand, which encodes the dopamine D4 receptor, is also one of
the loci for dyslexia (DYX7) (Hsiung et al. 2004) and for the attention-deficit-
hyperactivity disorder (McCracken et al. 2000; Schmidt et al. 2001).
Similarly, GRIK2, which encodes the GluR6 subunit of the kainate-type
glutamate receptor, is one of the candidate genes for autism (Jamain et al.
2002), while certain polymorphisms of the gene have been correlated with
the early onset of Huntington’s disease (Rubinsztein et al. 1997), a pathol-
ogy that, as is also the case with the phenotype associated with mutation of
the FOXP2 gene, carries linguistic and motor impairments (Chenery et al.
2002; Teichmann et al. 2005; Gusella and MacDonald 2006). Significantly,
GRIK1, another gene similar to GRIK4, is one of the targets of the FOXP2
factor whose expression pattern has been modified throughout the evolu-
tion of our species (Spiteri et al. 2007).
518 S . B A L A R I , A . B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O , V. M . L O N G A , A N D G . L O R E N Z O
25.4.1.3 Other genes of interest
In addition to what we have discussed so far with respect to the increase in
brain size and the (re)configuration of the circuits implied in linguistic
processing, during human speciation other processes have taken place
that could have played a significative role in the evolution of language,
in particular (1) the modification of brain metabolism and homeostasis,
and (2) the strengthening of the brain’s functional lateralization.
As for the first point, on the one hand one must take into account that
a more complex brain needs a higher energetic supply for its proper
functioning, which would explain why, among the genes that have experi-
mented a positive selection during human evolution, we find in particular
those encoding different components of the mitochondrial electron trans-
port chain (Grossman et al. 2004); significantly, there exist a number of
diseases caused by the mutation of several of these genes, which include,
among their distinctive symptoms, certain language impairments and
deficits. Also in connection to energy supply, the APOE gene should be
mentioned. This gene encodes a cholesterol transporter which plays a key
role in axon elongation and myelinization (Mahlev 1988). Its ε3 allele, in
particular, appears to have played a crucial role in the full adaptation to a
meat-rich diet by providing some protection against specific pathological
consequences of meat eating (e. g. hypercholesterolemia) and seems to
have spread in the same time range as the FOXP2 gene within the genus
Homo (Fullerton et al. 2000; Finch and Stanford 2004). Interestingly,
another allele of this gene (ε4) has been associated with a decline in differ-
ent cognitive functions (Caselli et al. 2004), and particularly with sporadic
(i.e. non-familiar) forms of Alzheimer’s disease (Raber et al. 2004).
On the other hand, it seems to be the case that a more complex brain also
needs an optimization of the intra- and interregional communication
devices, which would explain why some genes involved in the regulation
of the homeostasis of certain neurotransmitters have also been subject to
positive selection during our evolution. A particularly interesting case in
this connection is that of GLUD2, which encodes an alternative glutamate
dehydrogenase to the one present in the other mammals (encoded in our
species by GLUD1), which is presumably adapted to the biochemical
environment found in a metabolically more active brain, particularly in
astrocytes under high neuron firing (Plaitakis et al. 2003). The gene would
have appeared through duplication (in fact, by retroposition of the spliced
mRNA of GLUD1) just before the appearance of primates as a group, and it
would have been subject to a subsequent positive selection in the
ancestors of higher primates (Burki and Kaessmann 2004). Moreover, the
functional optimization of this more complex brain could also have been
the result of some modification in the glycosylation patterns of (certain)
cerebral proteins: it has been suggested that one way to attain this result
could have been the inactivation of CMAH, a gene which encodes one of the
The fossils of language 519
enzymes involved in the transfer of sugar residues to glycoproteins; such
inactivation would have taken place just a little before the encephalization
process occurred in the genus Homo between 2.1 and 2.2 my ago (Chou et al.
2002).
As for lateralization, its main interest resides in the fact that linguistic
processing is substantially lateralized in functional and anatomic
terms (Martin 2003). It is nevertheless important not to forget that func-
tional lateralization is an archaic feature in vertebrates (Bradshaw and
Nettleton 1981), whereas anatomical lateralization of the most relevant
regions involved in language processing (in particular, Broca’s area) is
already present in other primates (Cantalupo and Hopkins 2001; also
Section 25.3.1); moreover, linguistic activity regularly implies the recruit-
ment of different areas in the right hemisphere (Martin 2003). In any
case, and given the existing positive (although not particularly significa-
tive in statistical terms) correlation between language and the lateraliza-
tion of certain activities that might share with linguistic processing (also
in phylogenetic terms) a (homologous) subjacent neuronal mechanism
(as would be the case for motor tasks responsible for object manipula-
tion), Leask and Crow (2001) have proposed that one of the relevant genes
for language evolution could be one of the genes involved in the regu-
lation of lateralization, i.e. the protocadherine 11 gene, a type of protein
involved in cell adhesion. There are two variants of this gene, one linked
to X (PCDHX [PCDH11X]), and the other linked to Y (PCDHX [PCDH11Y]),
with the particularity that the latter is the result of a transposition of a
copy of PCDHX (PCDH11X) to chromosome Y, which occurred after the
branching of the evolutionary line leading to the human species (Sargent
et al. 1996), whence its absence in other primate species (Wilson et al.
2006) and these do not show the sexual disparity in the degree of lateral-
ization nor, consequently, in the degree of manual dexterity, observed in
our species.
25.4.2 The evolution of genes related to language: The
form–function problem re-revisited
In the light of our discussion in Section 25.4.1, we are now in a position to
offer a positive answer to the question posed in Section 25.3.3 as to
whether the mutation of certain genes associated with neuronal prolifer-
ation, migration, and interconnection could have played a relevant role in
the evolution of the brain and, specifically, in the emergence of language.
A plausible scenario could be the following. In the primate clade, a
number of mutations would have accumulated in genes involved in the
regulation of basic brain processes (such as neuronal proliferation and
migration, the establishment of basic brain interconnection patterns,
brain metabolism, the homeostasis of certain neurotransmitters, or the
postranslational modification of certain cerebral proteins), which would
520 S . B A L A R I , A . B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O , V. M . L O N G A , A N D G . L O R E N Z O
have given rise in turn to fundamental changes in brain anatomy and
physiology. Such changes would be the essential prerequisite for the
emergence of language, and, plausibly, also account for the homologous
capacities to some of those changes associated with language that we can
find in related species (the increase in brain size, with all its implications,
as discussed in Section 25.3, would be the paradigmatic case). However, it
is evident that language must also have been the result of some modifica-
tions that occurred specifically after the branching of the human clade,
probably in genes involved in the configuration of specific neuronal
circuits (the processing device in whose configuration and functioning
FOXP2 participates being a plausible example). But also, at the same time,
however paradoxical this may sound, the neural substrate of (the nuclear
components of) language appears to be quite old evolutionarily, as witnessed
for example by the fact that the homology of the cortico-striatal-cortical
circuit to whose arrangement FOXP2 contributes, and which seems to play a
crucial role in linguistic processing, may be traced, at least, as far back as the
avian group.
But the case of FOXP2 may also hint at a solution of this apparent
evolutionary enigma, by pointing at what seems to have been a fairly
general tendency, or at least a quite significant one, with respect to the
modifications in the brain that would have occurred in our evolutionary
line and that would have originated the emergence of language. If such
modifications would have affected regulatory elements of gene expres-
sion, (i) the transformations to which they would have given rise would
be much more significant than those resulting from the modification of
structural genes, genes which in addition are quite costly in evolutionary
terms, and (ii) they would have allowed the modification and selection of
complete functional modules, made up of a variable number of genes
expressing in a coordinated way, in the sense suggested by Oldham et al.
(2006), and as is also adequately illustrated by FOXP2 (Konopka et al. 2009
and Section 25.3.2). It is particularly remarkable in this respect that a high
percentage of genes related to language (that is, those showing mutations
associated or linked to certain cognitive disorders affecting linguistic
competence) encode regulatory factors of gene expression or components
of signal transduction pathways.
This possibility would moreover confirm the idea that brain evolution
(and also the evolution of language) would have fundamentally been the
result of changes in the brain transcriptome (not only due to the modi-
fication of regulatory factors in trans, as would be the case for FOXP2, but
also in cis), which would have implied in turn both a modification of the
expression levels of certain genes and also (and this is particularly signi-
ficative) the creation of new expression patterns (in spatial and/or tem-
poral terms) of preexisting genes, something that is frequently observed
at the ontogenetic level, where prominent differences in phenotypic
terms can be explained on the basis of changes in the spatial-temporal
The fossils of language 521
regulation of the expression of a few transcription factors (Hofmann
2003). On the other hand, the cerebral proteome would have been sub-
stantially preserved during our evolution, perhaps because the majority
of the proteins integrating it are employed in other histological environ-
ments, which would have prevented or hindered the appearance of too
radical changes in their design (Mattick and Gagen 2001). As a conse-
quence, we again encounter the form–function problem, which we
already addressed in different contexts in Sections 25.2.2.3 and 25.3.4:
also at the genetic (and molecular) level, what would be relevant for the
evolution of language would not be the modification of the sequence of
the genes involved in the development of the neuronal substrate of
language – which in fact would not be so different from their homologous
and orthologous precursor manifestations in other species – but rather
the place and time in which these genes are expressed and, in short, the
developmental context in which they act. Thus, the emergence of lan-
guage in evolutionary terms would not be, as one would expect given its
discontinuity at the phenotypic level, a consequence of an increase in
structural complexity, but fundamentally an increase of the modification
and co-option of preexisting developmental programs of the brain,
through recycling of components (molecular, ontogenetic, cytological,
histological) already present in our organism as a result of our evolu-
tionary history.
The case of brain size as discussed above is particularly illustrative in
this respect, as the modification of the functional properties of a few
regulatory elements essentially involved in the modulation of basic
cellular processes intervening in the division of neuronal precursors – in
essence, in the organization of the DNA and in the assembly and correct
disposition of the microtubules of the cytoskeleton – would have made
possible such a conspicuous change, because it is the noteworthy increase
of relative brain size observed in our evolutionary lineage, and this would
in turn have elicited (or permitted) an eventual series of modifications in
the design of certain neuronal circuits, fostering or facilitating the appear-
ance of some of the necessary neuronal components for the emergence of
language. On the other hand, the case of FOXP2 clarifies the issue of how
certain basic circuits in the language processing devices (in particular, the
cortico-thalamic-striatal circuits which make up the core of the grammar of
the basal ganglia referred to in Section 25.3.4) could have appeared as a
consequence of the recycling (and partial modification) of the regulatory
cascades involved in the development and the functioning of certain brain
structures, mainly of circuits involved in social cognition, in spatial-
temporal representation, and especially in (the learning of) motor control
(Marcus and Fisher 2003; Fisher and Scharff 2009; White 2010), ultimately
giving rise to the emergence of an unlimited and recursive combinatory
capacity of conceptual elements.
522 S . B A L A R I , A . B E N Í T E Z - B U R R A C O , V. M . L O N G A , A N D G . L O R E N Z O
25.5 Concluding remarks: brain evolution, genes,
and language
The emergence of the neural structures involved in language processing
could fundamentally have been the result in evolutionary terms of the
remodeling of preexisting programs implicated in the regulation of
the development (and functioning) of other processing devices associated
with other cognitive capacities. Language would have emerged as a con-
sequence of the integration, in a single functional system, of cognitive
systems responsible for thought and for perception and motor functions
(Hauser et al. 2002). Thus, language is not necessarily the product of
prolonged and gradual evolutionary development of a significantly high
number of discrete components optimized by the effect of natural selec-
tion, as was apparently required, given the idiosyncratic nature and the
discontinuity that characterizes it at the phenotypic level (Pinker and
Bloom 1990). However this is a possibility that is substantially incompat-
ible with the brief interval of time in the phylogenetic terms within which
its evolution appears to have occurred (Section 25.2).
It is in this context that the importance of the possibility pointed out in
Section 25.4.2 is manifested: that the modification of a few regulatory
genes (and/or their transcriptional profile) could have given rise to a
remarkable remodeling of certain neuronal circuits, now dedicated
(plausibly not exclusively) to the processing, and the operating, of compu-
tational tasks with symbolic units. The result would be transformed in
externalizable and internalizable structures by preexisting sensorimotor
systems. Given the very nature of these genes (to a large extent they encode
transcriptional factors and components of signal transduction pathways),
and also, in particular, given the evolutionary continuity observed in the
organization of language at all levels of biological, and especially neuro-
biological, complexity (as pointed out in Sections 25.3 and 25.4), this
process could have occurred in a relatively brief lapse of time in evolu-
tionary terms, and could perhaps have coincided with the appearance of
Homo sapiens.
The fossils of language 523
Notes
Chapter 3
1. Much belatedly, in the spring of 2005, I had the fortune of benefiting
myself from an extant residue of that grant, when I was invited by Alec
Marantz, then Head of the Department of Linguistics and Philosophy of
MIT, to be a visiting professor and to give (guess what) a graduate course
on biolinguistics.
Chapter 4
1. This is not the only work of Descartes on method: prominently, there
is also Rules for the Direction of the Mind and several other works, in some
of which he actually “does science.” Less prominently, although prob-
ably more importantly, there are his many letters, the majority of
which have not been translated. Since I am not proposing to present
Descartes’s work as would a historiographer or historian of ideas, and
because the Discourse is a work in which Descartes quite clearly makes
what I take to be a crucial distinction (that between science and
common sense), and also because the work is fairly well known, I
focus on it.
2. While Descartes did not make clear distinctions between “atomic”
concepts, sentential expressions without forces, and judgments, the
Port-Royal Grammarians who followed did. So far as I can tell, though,
it does not distort what Descartes was up to if one imports these
distinctions from later work that in many respects honor Descartes’s
views of the mind, of “innate ideas,” and of the use of language.
3. Although he also agreed with a great deal of what he wrote, Descartes
disagreed with Galileo on some crucial features of scientific theory
construction. For useful discussion of some of the differences, see
Ariew (1986).
4. Descartes on Galileo: “It seems to me that he is greatly deficient in that
he digresses continually and that he does not stop to explain fully any
subject; this shows that he has not examined any in an orderly fashion,
that he has sought for the reasons of some particular effects without
having considered the first causes of nature, and thus, he has built
without foundation” (Adam and Tannery 1964–74 Vol II: 380; trans-
lation Roger Ariew). It is clear from this that Descartes thought that
the matter of theory unification (which comes up at the end of the
quote) is connected with “order,” although likely it is best divided
from that.
5. Alan Turing in 1950 rashly predicted that by the year 2000 one could
program a computer to yield “speech” that is appropriate to the circum-
stances of ordinary language use (encapsulated in producing answers to
random questions in ways that would appear to an audience of judges
to be no less appropriate than those produced by a human being). This
condition for a computer “test for mind” has not been met; at best,
some programs manage in some cases to yield responses to questions
that are very limited in their scope. While he was rash in his prediction,
it should be mentioned that Turing was much more circumspect in his
judgment concerning how to interpret the result, should this “test for
mind” be met. In his view, all that meeting it would justify is a decision
to change usage from “machines do not think” to “machines think.”
Ironically, this change in “ordinary use of language” has taken place
without the test being met. But this just indicates how little of interest
there is in change of use. Change in usage is a result of human choice
and beyond the reach of naturalistic science; it is in the domain of free
action. No scientific issues turn on usage of the concepts we employ in
our natural languages.
6. “Empiricist” and “rationalist” as used here represent views concerning
how to study the mind. They are idealizations. Empiricists are generally
speaking anti-nativists, for example, but the supposedly paradigmatic
empiricist Hume acknowledged that the mind operated according to
“secret springs and principles” that nature built into it, and in both his
treatment of the missing shade of blue and his remarks on the fact that
humans seem to be able to come up with moral judgments for ran-
domly chosen actions and states – not to mention his account of causa-
tion – he seems to assume that there are native operations at work, even
if he was skeptical about coming to know what they are. Perhaps one of
the few clear examples of empiricist commitments is found in B. F.
Skinner’s work on language. His views are still to a degree honored by
some connectionists such as Elman, although Elman does acknowledge
at least some native constraints on how (say) language learning takes
place (Elman 1999, 2005). Nevertheless, he and others working within
the connectionist learning paradigm can be said to try to minimize
nativist commitments. For example, Elman appeals to biologically
Notes to pages 33–36 525
based (and presumably domain-general) developmental timing con-
straints, suggesting however only that these make sense of his (1991,
1993, 1996) “start small” learning strategy. As for the label “ration-
alist”: again, there are few “pure” cases, Chomsky and perhaps
Descartes and Cudworth aside. Fodor is a self-labeled rationalist, but
is an externalist (though not, I grant, of language, but rather of con-
cepts and thoughts, which he divorces from language – incorrectly, I
believe). Note that philosophers sometimes called “rationalists,” such
as Hegel, are by the standards of the distinction between empiricist
and rationalist in question here, empiricists.
7. There are other forms of externalism, such as the view that language is
an abstract object. But the social institution view – whether adopted
explicitly or implicitly – dominates.
8. Newton’s Principia was published in 1687, but it was presented to the
Royal Society in 1686. Arguably, moreover, in 1679 Hooke anticipated
“Newton’s law” and wrote Newton about it. He did not get credit for
the law, although Newton acknowledged his role.
9. I discuss Descartes’s account of depth computation and some possible
implications of it near the end of my introduction to the 3rd edition of
Chomsky’s Cartesian Linguistics (1966/2002/2009).
10. Cudworth dealing with the matter of innate ideas used the term
“prolepsis,” which he borrowed from the Stoics, to indicate his view
that our “innate cognoscitive power” appears to be able to anticipate
what is needed to classify, understand, think … on an occasion. An
alternative terminology is found in speaking of an idea being “latent
in the mind.” Placing the issue in question in the context of the
rationalist/empiricist distinction, Chomsky remarks in his Cartesian
Linguistics that “The strong assumption about innate mental structure
made by rationalistic psychology and philosophy of mind eliminated
the necessity for any sharp distinction between a theory of percep-
tion and a theory of learning. In both cases, essentially the same
processes are at work; a store of latent principles is brought to the
interpretation of the data of sense” (102).
11. See in this regard Stuart Kauffman (1993) on the origins of biological
structure and order: selection plays a rather minor role.
Chapter 8
1. I intend “genome” to be interpreted broadly, that is to designate what-
ever the mode of heritable transmission and control of neural activity
is. Recent investigations suggest that much of DNA beyond “genes” is
responsible for biological control, e.g. exons, so called “junk” DNA, and
probably much beyond that.
2. There is now a stream of literature that argues that in fact if the ques-
tion is tested in certain different ways, even young infants show
526 Notes to pages 36–94
knowledge of TOM. The issue is far from resolved, and threatens to
disappear in a morass of psychological ways of describing the effect.
Even fascinating results might have this fate, an object lesson of the
need for Type 1 theories (Marr 1977, which we’ll later discuss) if at all
possible.
3. David Marr was a major, original thinker in the computational and
biological basis of visual perception. His work in general offers an
elegant understanding of the nature of problems in cognitive science,
even beyond the study of perception.
4. Type 2 theories are theories of those domains that depend on a wide
variety of interacting, complex phenomena, where there may not be a
clean, elegant theory. In particular (p. 3), a type 2 theory is what we can
wind up with “when a problem is solved by the simultaneous action of
a considerable number of processes, whose interaction is its own simplest
description.” Marr gave as an example the problem of protein folding.
5. The first data column is labeled V1/V2 because sometimes the child
drops the first constituent, thereby resulting in a verb-first production.
Topic-Drop of this sort is grammatical in Dutch, so we expect such
sentences. That the verb-first sentences do in fact represent topic-drop
finds good support in the data. See de Lint and Wexler (2011)
6. Age x; y means x years and y months.
7. See also Sano and Hyams (1994). Wexler (1992, 1994) proposed that it
was rich agreement or null-subject possibilities that might be charac-
teristic of the non-OI languages, but Sigurjonsdottir (1999) showed
that Icelandic, a rich agreement, non-null-subject language displayed
a rich array of OI’s in development. Since then NS/OI has been the
accepted generalization.
8. We don’t have room to explain why this should occur despite the lack
of main verb infinitivals in young Italian children. See Wexler (1998a)
for the explanation and Schütze (2004) for a subtle analysis of be-
omission in the OI age-range, with evidence from much data.
9. See Wexler (2011) for a detailed discussion of why the ideas of Legate
and Yang (2007) that attempt to predict the OI stage from the difficulty
of learning a “tense parameter” predict the wrong results. They can’t
even predict the finiteness/word order correlation in e.g. the French
OI stage.
10. The other two factors are:
“(2) Experience, which leads to variation, within a fairly narrow range,
as in the case of other subsystems of the human capacity and the
organism generally” and
“(3) Principles not specific to the faculty of language.”
11. It would be worth researching (it’s from a published standardized test)
exactly what is in that test in detail, as a hint at what might be
heritable in grammar. Are particular sub-parts of that test more herit-
able than others?
Notes to pages 95–118 527
12. For the LI Risk group, the correlation, while still significant, was only
.209.
13. The estimates of bivariate heritability for Sentence Structure and
finiteness were just short of significance, so there may in fact be
some common genetic basis for the development of finiteness and
whatever is in the Sentence Structure test. In my opinion, it is unlikely
that this is just one “syntax” development; there are too many phe-
nomena like timing rates that are different, as we have discussed. And
it may be that only a particular sub-part of Sentence Structure is
related to finiteness in this genetic way. Much remains to be done.
14. p indicates the smaller arm of a chromosome and q indicates the
larger arm.
Chapter 9
1. Note that this is ungrammatical in English, which does show a that-trace
effect.
2. Metrical feet are indicated by parentheses (…), while stress is indicated
by CAPITAL LETTERS henceforth.
3. This is true even if it takes some time for children to choose the
correct parameter value (perhaps because they will not change their
current hypothesis unless they are sure that it is really unable to
analyze the input). No matter when they decide to choose the correct
parameter value, once they choose it, they should continue to use it
exclusively.
4. Note, however, that the “light switch” account may be able to produce
more gradual-seeming behavior if it used for learning entire grammars
rather than individual parameter values. See Section 9.3.3 for more
discussion of learning grammars vs. learning individual parameters.
5. Fodor (1998) and Lightfoot (1999) suggest that children might be able to
discover the relevant unambiguous cues by a process they already use
for comprehension: parsing the incoming data. To “parse” a data point
is to know the underlying structure for a data point, i.e., to know what
parameter values generated it. If a particular parameter value is
required for a successful parse of a given data point, that data point is
unambiguous for that parameter value.
6. This is true provided that the value for the extrametricality parameter
is learned after the value of the quantity sensitivity parameter. See
discussion below regarding the learning path.
7. The underlined portion of the example unambiguous data represents
the most relevant portion of the data point.
8. We note that the equation for pvnew includes numbers in the numerator
(1.5) and denominator (3) that represent the learner bringing minimal
prior knowledge about which parameter value is correct, believing in
both equally at the start. This learner is strongly driven by the data
528 Notes to pages 120–156
points encountered. See Pearl (2011) for a more detailed discussion of
the intuitions behind this equation.
Chapter 10
1. The current literature offers no clear account of how the need to engage
conflict resolution is detected and triggered. In other words, up to now,
conflict monitoring remains a sort of homunculus in charge of extract-
ing an abstract index of conflict (cf. Botvinik et al. 2001).
2. The fact that the reduced conflict effect in bilinguals was restricted to
the first part of the 75% congruent task-version of Costa et al.’s (2009)
study replicates Costa et al.’s (2008) results. This observation has been
interpreted as evidence that monolinguals can equal bilingual’s per-
formance after having acquired some practice.
3. Some authors have raised concerns about the reliability of such huge
differences between bilinguals and monolinguals (e.g., Colzato et al.,
2008). Morton and Harper (2007) also raised concerns about the reli-
ability of the bilingual advantage on executive control based on poten-
tial socio-economical status effects.
Chapter 11
1. Dabrowska (2010) interpreted this to be the result of different frequen-
cies of exposure to specific kinds of unacceptable sentences. Since the
training of generative linguists includes reading scores of textbooks’
and articles’ examples of specific ungrammatical sentences, this could
lead to a higher familiarity with them, which might lower generative
linguists’ sensitivity to the unacceptability of these sentences. It is
important to note, however, that this kind of explanation systemati-
cally predicts the opposite of the cognitive bias hypothesis for the
phenomena studied by syntacticians: judgments of generative lin-
guists are going to be systematically less sensitive to the predicted
contrasts than the judgments of naı̈ve participants.
Chapter 12
1. This equation need not make a direct theoretical claim – it simply fits
the data well; see Ratcliff (2006) for an alternative parameterized equa-
tion driven by a particular theory of processing speed and accuracy.
2. This observation has interesting consequences for subjects modified
with an object-relative clause (“The editor that the book amused
laughed.”). In those sentences, the gap site in the relative clause
was adjacent to the sentence-final verb. Therefore it would have
been possible to complete this task based on string-local information
Notes to pages 167–215 529
(perhaps reasoning: typically, individuals that can be amused can
also laugh). It gives support to the idea that restoring the scope of
focal attention to the higher subject phrase is obligatory. Notice also
that even though the same head might participate in the subject–
verb dependency and the relative clause verb–object dependency,
different token encodings of that head are relevant for completing
the task.
3. There were some other important differences between the two studies.
Wagers and McElree (2009) used a variant of SAT design called multiple-
response SAT (MR-SAT), in which participants are trained to give many
judgments per stimulus to a series of tones following a probe
(Wickelgren, Corbett, and Dosher 1980). Despite this task difference,
the absolute rate differences between focal and non-focal conditions,
about 74 ms, was similar to McElree, Foraker, and Dyer (2003).
This study also included a direct comparison of subject vs. object-
extracted relative clause, as in “The editor who enjoyed the book
laughed,” vs. “The editor who the book amused laughed.” Though the
subject-attached relative clause condition led to slightly higher accu-
racy, there were no rate differences between the two.
4. This simplifies the actual feature system used in distinguishing singular
and plural. See Harley and Ritter (2002), Farkas and de Swart (2010),
among others, but it suffices for the discussion of English.
5. It is possible to extend the “command domain ID” proposal to allow
distance to play a role in retrieval. If the command ID were conceived of
as a high-dimensional vector that is slowly, randomly changing, then
more recently encoded c-commanders will have an advantage over less
recently encoded ones. Proposals similar in spirit have been made for
encoding linear order (Page and Norris 2000). It is only a heuristic
system, however, since it relies on an alignment between encoding
order and hierarchical order. This alignment could be violated in
many instances, particularly in cases where a more deeply embedded
head is predicted but not yet attested in the input. See Wagers (2008).
Thanks to Brian Dillon for discussion on these issues.
6. There is a question about whether the unergative clause structure that
“sail” licenses (but “fix” does not) affects the retrieval structure.
Independently of its occurrence in a filler–gap dependency, the string
“the guy who lived by the sea fixed” has outstanding thematic require-
ments: the verb “fix” must discharge its THEME role; on the other hand,
in the string “the guy who lived by the sea sailed” is well formed with-
out further constituents. Inclusion of PPs like “in two days” forces the
transitive interpretation of “sail” ultimately, though this information is
not available in the critical region. The thematic structure of the verb is
important because there is evidence for argument anticipation
(Altmann and Kamide 1999) which occurs independently of filler–gap
dependency completion. See Wagers (2008).
530 Notes to pages 216–228
7. One important difference between reflexive anaphora resolution and
agreement or wh-dependency formation is the fact that reflexive ana-
phora may not be a direct relationship between reflexive and subject;
for example, it may be mediated via the verb (see Reuland 2011, for the
panoply of options).
Chapter 14
1. The “grain size” problem was aptly described by Embick and Poeppel
(2006) with regard to one of the most discussed potential correlations
between brain and language, namely the issue of whether Broca’s
region (i.e. the pars opercularis and triangularis of the left inferior
frontal gyrus, see Figure 14.1) mediates syntactic computation.
According to Embick and Poeppel, this question is too coarse at both a
cognitive and a neuroanatomical level, since ‘‘‘syntax’ is not a single,
monolithic task, nor is ‘Broca’s area’ a single, monolithic area of the
brain.”
2. Indeed, research in the domain of speech perception has revealed a
general continuum of “intelligibility” in temporal cortex, with increas-
ingly intelligible speech leading to activation in increasingly anterior
temporal regions (Scott et al. 2000).
3. Fitch and Hauser (2004) examined how these two types of grammars are
learned by humans and non-human primates (cotton-top tamarins).
They reported that, while humans were able to learn both types of
grammars, tamarins could only distinguish grammatical from ungram-
matical strings in the non-embedding case. This finding appears to
corroborate Hauser et al.’s (2002) assumption about recursion as a
uniquely human aspect of language (but see below for some concerns
regarding the experimental design employed in this study).
4. Whenever possible, we refer to macroscopic brain regions (e.g. POp,
PTr) when describing functional neuroanatomy in this chapter. In some
cases, however, we make reference to Brodmann areas (BAs) addition-
ally or instead (e.g. BA 44, BA 45). BAs were defined on the basis of
cytoarchitectural differences (i.e. differences in the cell structure
within the layers of the cortex) by German neurologist Korbinian
Brodmann (Brodmann 1909). Though BAs are often used interchange-
ably with brain region labels (e.g. BA 44 with POp and BA 45 with PTr),
they are not identical. In particular, cytoarchitecture differs consider-
ably across individuals, but, since it can only be examined in post
mortem analyses, it cannot be determined for the participants in neuro-
imaging studies on language. In order to address this problem, Amunts
and colleagues have developed probability maps for a number of BAs in
language-related regions (e.g. Amunts et al. 1999, for the lIFG) such that
the likelihood of a particular activation falling into a specific BA can be
Notes to pages 229–261 531
determined. When the results of a particular study are described pri-
marily with reference to BAs rather than to anatomically defined
regions, we also refer to BAs in our discussion of those results here.
5. The original design used by Friederici et al. (2006a), which was adopted
from Fitch and Hauser (2004), was subject to the criticism that parti-
cipants may have been able to process the grammar containing embed-
dings simply by counting the number of occurrences of each type of
symbol (Perruchet and Rey 2005). This problem was overcome in a
follow-up fMRI study (Bahlmann et al. 2008) which ensured that the
corresponding A and B categories (i.e. those at the same structural
level) matched according to a particular feature. This experiment
also showed increased activation of BA 44 for artificial grammars
containing centre-embeddings vs. adjacent dependencies.
6. Notably, this subdivision also contradicts Chomsky’s notion of an
“evolutionary leap” based on the operation Merge. While Hauser
et al. (2002) focused on the recursive aspect of syntactic structure
building when outlining their evolutionary perspective, subsequent
publications by Chomsky suggest that they were, in fact, alluding to
the fact that Merge serves to create hierarchical and potentially
unbounded structures:
The simplest account of the “Great Leap Forward” in the evolution of
humans would be that the brain was rewired, perhaps by some slight
mutation, to provide the operation Merge, at once laying a core part of
the basis for what is found at that dramatic “moment” of human
evolution, at least in principle […]. (Chomsky 2005a: 11–12)
7. Of course, current syntactic analyses would posit that movement
(IM) occurs in both cases, i.e. both in the +movement and in
the −movement conditions in (2). However, the crucial comparison
is relative and based on the assumption that there is an additional
movement operation in the case of the wh-question.
8. Note that the issue of movement is not necessarily central here, since
the dependency must be reconstructed in some way – be it via a gap,
trace, or copy in the phrase structure or by some other means in
theories that do not assume movement operations (for discussion,
see Van Valin and LaPolla 1997).
9. Note that, here and in the following, we abstract away from the details
of how relative clauses are to be analyzed syntactically. Whether we
view the dependency as holding between the relative pronoun and the
argument’s base position within the relative clause, between a rela-
tive clause operator and the base position, or even between the head
noun and the base position is of no consequence for the present
discussion.
10. In an even more recent paper, Santi and Grodzinsky (2010) adopt yet
another distinction pertaining to movement, namely “canonical”
532 Notes to pages 262–271
(subject) movement vs. “non- canonical” (object) movement. By means
of a design crossing “movement type” (subject vs. object in subject
vs. object relative clauses) and type of embedding (centre embedded
vs. right-branching), they argue for a movement-specialization of
anterior lIFG. In our view, this illustrates the need to resort to ad hoc
theoretical assumptions in order to attempt to maintain a movement-
related interpretation of the role of (parts of) the lIFG in language
processing. As noted by Gordzinsky and colleagues in previous pub-
lications (Ben-Shachar et al. 2004), both subject and object relative
clauses involve (the same type of) movement. In fact, Ben-Shachar
et al. (2004: 1334) used this line of argumentation to derive the fact
that they did not find differential lIFG activation for object vs. subject
wh-questions in Hebrew.
11. In some languages, for example, only direct objects that are high
in prominence (e.g. animate: Spanish; specific: Turkish; animate
and specific: Hindi) are marked via case or a preposition (“differ-
ential object marking,” DOM, Bossong 1985; Aissen 2003). This
phenomenon is often explained via the prototypical association
between subjects (which often express the actor of an event) and
high prominence (e.g. animacy) and objects (which often express
the undergoer of an event) and low prominence (e.g. inanimacy)
(e.g. Silverstein 1976; Comrie 1989; Aissen 2003; de Swart 2007).
(For an in-depth discussion of prominence information in the
context of language processing, see Bornkessel-Schlesewsky and
Schlesewsky 2009b.)
12. It remains to be seen whether this assumption is, in fact, cross-
linguistically valid. While languages such as German or English may
be assumed to lexically encode word category and this lexical infor-
mation thus directly and unambiguously determines whether an ele-
ment is potentially a projecting head or not, other languages display a
considerable degree of fluidity in this regard ("transcategoriality").
A case in point is Mandarin Chinese, in which a large number of
lexemes can potentially function as different word categories (e.g.
noun or verb) depending on the sentence context in which they
occur (Bisang 2008). Possibly, the use of sequence information for
the establishment of a hierarchical syntactic structure therefore
involves processes of contextual control rather than stimulus-driven
control in languages of this type and should thereby be expected
to correlate with activation in the POp rather than in the DFO/PMC.
An initial indication that this might indeed be the case stems from an
early imaging study on Chinese (Luke et al. 2002), which reported
activation in BA 44 (amongst other inferior frontal regions) for a
category sequencing violation (verb–adverb order). However, since
this activation was revealed by a contrast between the sequencing
violation and a font change detection condition (i.e. a relatively low
Notes to pages 274–277 533
level control), this result cannot be considered conclusive with regard
to the question under consideration.
13. For more detailed arguments in favor of this position based on the
direction of information flow within the lIFG and the timing of
subprocesses within sentence comprehension, see Bornkessel-
Schlesewsky et al. (2012).
14. Note, however, that a recent comparison between sentences and word
lists using MEG did, in fact, reveal increased lIFG (specifically POp)
activation for sentences – in addition to increased activation in further
regions such as the ATL and frontomedian cortex (Brennan and
Pylkkänen 2012). On the basis of these findings, the authors suggest
that the relatively restricted set of activations (typically in the ATL)
observed in previous neuroimaging studies comparing sentences and
word lists (see Section 14.2.1) may reflect the fact that fMRI may not be
optimally suited to detecting syntactic structuring operations due to
the timescale at which they occur (within the millisecond range).
Interestingly, the fMRI study by Snijders et al. (2009) that was discussed
in Section 14.2.3 revealed higher lIFG activation for sentences as
opposed to word lists, which, at a first glance, appears at odds with
this explanation and with the results on the ATL that were described in
Section 14.2.1. However, as already noted in Section 14.2.3, the lIFG
activation observed by Snijders and colleagues in fact resulted from an
interaction between stimulus type (sentences vs. word lists) and ambi-
guity (presence or absence of a category ambiguity), with sentences
involving an ambiguity leading to higher lIFG activation (POp border-
ing on premotor cortex). However, since the resolution of the category
ambiguities at a later point in the sentence will very likely have
required reanalysis processes at least in a subset of trials, this activa-
tion could again be due to the increased need for cognitive control
rather than, as assumed by Snijders et al., to increased unification
demands and thereby sentence processing proper.
Chapter 15
1. There are a number of different variants of this paradigm. In masked
priming, primes are presented only for a very brief time period and
followed by a visual mask. They are thus assumed to not be consciously
perceived by participants and, hence, to provide a window on auto-
matic aspects of morphological analysis. In delayed priming, by con-
trast, participants are presented with a word list within which the
prime is embedded.
2. They argue that, since all words in Hebrew are morphologically com-
plex and require morphological decomposition, the lIFG will always be
involved in the processing of any real word. Thus, no differential
534 Notes to pages 278–286
activation was observed in this region for a morphological relatedness
task vs. other types of tasks (e.g. semantic relatedness, rhyme judg-
ments) in Bick et al. (2008).
3. At this point, we would ask the reader to imagine how many real-world
situations in fact require a categorizing decision (such as a lexical
decision) with regard to a single-word expression. While there are
examples (“Stop!,” “Help!”), more complex morphological forms (either
inflected or derived) such as “swum” or the German equivalent “gesch-
wommen” never occur in isolation, thereby raising the question of
what these studies actually tell us about language. They are indeed
highly informative with regard to the ability for fulfilling a cognitive
task, but the explanatory capacity for language and language architec-
ture is still open to debate
4. Note that there is some evidence to suggest that the convergence of
codes may be more structured than has been assumed in the discussion
here, i.e. that it requires a certain type of sublexical structure (see Taft
and Kougious 2004).
5. Berko devised what was to become known as the “wug test,” i.e. she
asked children to produce inflected forms of nonce words (“This is a
wug.” [referring to a picture of an unknown object or animal] “Now
there is another one. There are two of them.” [referring to a picture
of several of the above-mentioned creatures or objects] “There are
two ___.” [child is expected to complete the sentence]).
6. This assumption was essentially motivated by classic findings on ERPs
and language processing, which suggested that N400 effects correlate
with semantic processing, while LAN and P600 effects correlate with
syntactic processing (e.g. Kutas and Hillyard 1980; Osterhout and
Holcomb 1992; Hagoort, Brown, and Groothusen 1993). However, it
has become clear over approximately the last decade that this straight-
forward dissociation is too narrow, since N400 effects have also been
observed for manipulations that would typically be considered
(morpho-)syntactic such as word order variations (Bornkessel et al.
2004; Haupt et al. 2008) and case-marking violations (Frisch and
Schlesewsky 2001; Frisch and Schlesewsky 2005; Mueller et al. 2005;
Mueller, Hirotani, and Friederici 2007; Choudhary et al. 2009).
7. One potential problem with the study by Joanisse and Seidenberg (2005)
is that the pseudoregular forms include a potential suffix (-d/-t) while
the true irregulars do not. Thus, one might argue that automatic pro-
cesses of morphological decomposition can explain the activation pat-
tern in this region.
8. Note that both of these studies in fact observed increased lIFG activation
for irregular vs. regular forms, while the reverse contrast yielded
increased activation in temporal regions. These results directly contra-
dict the assumptions of the DP model.
Notes to pages 287–297 535
9. It also appears important to note that the sentences used in this study
were presented in a word-by-word manner with a stimulus onset
asynchrony (SOA) of 1600 ms. Given this highly atypical presentation
rate, it appears questionable whether participants indeed drew upon
normal reading strategies.
10. Somewhat disconcertingly, however, Inui et al. (1997) reported that
this activation difference was no longer observable when a different
type of judgment task was used. This once again speaks against an
interpretation of the effect in terms of automatic morphological
processing.
11. Note that the N400 was followed by a late positivity in one case, but
this is not central to the present discussion. See Choudhary et al. (2009)
for details.
12. Both types of violations also typically engender late positive ERP
effects (P600s). (In fact, some studies on agreement violations have
only observed P600 effects without an additional LAN, e.g. Hagoort
et al. 1993; Osterhout and Nicol 1999; Nevins et al. 2007.) We will not
discuss these positivities here, however, since they appear to be a
general index of the violation rather than being sensitive to more
fine-grained linguistic properties (for functional interpretations of
these effects in terms of general mechanisms such as conflict monitor-
ing or stimulus categorization, see, for example, van de Meerendonk
et al. 2009; Bornkessel-Schlesewsky et al. 2011).
Chapter 16
1. Or in the scope of some other operator that supports decreasing infer-
ences (Ladusaw 1979, 1980, 1983).
2. Although such a correlation can and must obviously be built in, given
the descriptive generalization that syntactic and semantic operations
do, by and large, stand in a one-to-one correspondence.
3. For an extensive discussion on the possible empirical arguments for
this, see Pylkkänen (2008).
Chapter 17
1. In what follows, we will assume that neural and cognitive levels are
closely correlated, although specifying the exact nature of that relation
is outside the scope of this chapter.
2. Although the notion of modularity in cognitive science is most often
couched in terms of “classical” symbol-manipulation accounts of
cognitive science, it is also compatible with connectionist accounts
that seek to explain cognition in terms of the interactions between
large numbers of simple processing units (even in approaches to
536 Notes to pages 300–326
computation that eschew explicit programming, modular structure
still often plays an important role; Jacobs, Jordan, and Barto 1991;
Miikkulainen 1993).
3. Modules could also be taken to be devices that are innate, mandatory,
fast, etc., and indeed there has been extensive discussion in the liter-
ature about what might count as a module (Carruthers and
Chamberlain 2000; Coltheart 1999; Fodor 1983). Because we take the
current arguments here to be independent of the modularity’s precise
formulation, we won’t rehearse those discussions here.
4. A similar view is apparently expressed by Thomas and Karmiloff-Smith
(2002), in their suggestion that “genes do not code directly for high-level
cognitive modules … processing structure is emergent and experience-
dependent, the outcome of developmental processes” (p. 731).
5. All of these expectations should be tempered by time. Other things
being equal, we should expect that systems that have diverged more
recently should share more in common than those that have descended
less recently. We should thus, for example, expect greater overlap
between the substrates of language (which evolved relatively recently,
presumably since the last common ancestor with chimpanzees some
six or so million years ago, and perhaps, as some have argued, only
within the last 1,000 years) and general cognition than between, say the
heart and the lung, which are separated by at least a few hundred
million years (Maina 2002).
6. The Hoen et al. study should be seen as preliminary both because it lacks
a placebo control and because the results seem to indicate facilitation
only for some syntactic structures but not others in ways that would not
be immediately obvious from the nature of the non-linguistic training.
Furthermore, additional work needs to be done to show that subjects
are truly treating the linguistic materials as linguistic.
7. Ramus (2004) makes a related point, arguing that two clusters of symp-
toms could arise from a common source. Such complexities could arise
in many ways, for example a single gene could take on multiple func-
tion (pleiotropy), through duplication and divergence a copy of a gene
might take on new functions, or a single gene might serve a single
function (say transporting a signal from a cell surface to a nucleus)
that is recruited in multiple domains. See Gerhart and Kirschner
(1997) for a number of excellent examples.
8. Or there could be shared subcomponents used in different ways in
different systems.
9. Overlap in, say, brain activity at a coarse grain doesn’t guarantee over-
lap at a fine grain; A single voxel measured in 3 tesla magnet may
capture blood flow metabolism associated with hundreds of thousands
neurons, and it entirely possible that different subpopulations within
are devoted to different tasks or computations.
Notes to pages 327–338 537
10. For an argument that recursion has evolutionary precedent in non-
human primates, see Fragaszy et al. (2002).
Chapter 23
1. The simplification here is rather drastic. It appears, for example, that
primate alarm call systems may well involve strong innate coding in the
producer of the signal, but rather more learning and inference on the
part of the receiver, as evidenced by species’ ability to respond to other
species’ alarm calls (e.g. Zuberbühler 2000).
2. See also Di Paolo (1999) for an alternative way in which spatial structure
can influence the evolution of communication.
3. In fact some authors have raised questions about the generality of these
results (e.g. Mayley 1996) even in the non-linguistic case.
538 Notes to pages 339–474
References
Abe, K. and Watanabe, D. (2011). Songbirds possess the spontaneous ability
to discriminate syntactic rules. Nature Neuroscience, 14, 1067–1074.
Abla, D., Katahira, K., and Okanoya, K. (2008). On-line assessment of statis-
tical learning by event-related potentials. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience,
20 (6), 952–964.
Abla, D. and Okanoya, K. (2008). Statistical segmentation of tone sequences
activates the left inferior frontal cortex: A near-infrared spectroscopy
study. Neuropsychologia, 46 (11), 2787–2795.
Abney, S. P. (1987). The English noun phrase in its sentential aspect.
Dissertation. Cambridge, MA: MIT.
Aboitz, F. and Garcia, V. R. (1997). The evolutionary origin of language
areas in the human brain. A neuroanatomical perspective. Brain
Research Reviews, 25, 381–396.
Abrahamsson, N. and Hyltenstam, K. (2009). Age of onset and nativelike-
ness in a second language: Listener perception versus linguistic scru-
tiny. Language Learning, 59, 249–306.
Abutalebi, J., Della Rosa, P. A., Green, D. W. et al. (in press). Bilingualism tunes
the anterior cingulate cortex for conflict monitoring. Cerebral Cortex.
Abutalebi, J. and Green, D. (2007). Bilingual language production: The
neurocognition of language representation and control. Journal of
Neurolinguistics, 20, 242–275.
Abutalebi, J., Miozzo, A., and Cappa, S. F. (2000). Do subcortical structures
control “Language Selection” in polyglots? Evidence from pathologi-
cal language mixing. Neurocase, 6, 51–56.
Adam, C. and Tannery, P. (eds.) (1964–74). Œuvres de Descartes, 2nd edn.
Paris: Vrin.
Adger, D. (2003). Core Syntax: A Minimalist Approach. Oxford University Press.
Adler, M. (1977). Collective and Individual Bilingualism. Hamburg: Helmut
Buske Verlag.
Aissen, J. (2003). Differential object marking: Iconicity vs. economy. Natural
Language and Linguistic Theory, 21, 435–483.
Alain, C., Cortese, F., and Picton, T. W. (1998). Event-related brain
activity associated with auditory pattern processing. Neuroreport, 9
(15), 3537–3541.
Albright, A. and Hayes, B. (2003). Rules vs. analogy in English past tenses: A
computational/experimental study. Cognition, 90, 119–161.
Alegre, M. and Gordon, P. (1999). Frequency effects and the representational
status of regular inflections. Journal of Memory and Language, 40, 41–61.
Alexander, M. P., Naeser, M. A., and Palumbo, C. (1990). Broca’s area apha-
sias: Aphasia after lesions including the frontal operculum. Neurology,
40, 353–362.
Alexiadou, A. and Anagnostopoulou, E. (1998). Parametrizing AGR: Word
order, V- Movement and EPP-checking. Natural Language and Linguistic
Theory, 16, 491–539.
Alexopoulou, T. and Keller, F. (2007). Locality, cyclicity and resumption: At
the interface between the grammar and the human sentence pro-
cessor. Language, 83 (1), 110–160.
Alho, K., Winkler, I., Escera, C. et al. (1998). Processing of novel
sounds and frequency changes in the human auditory cortex:
Magnetoencephalographic recordings. Psychophysiology, 35 (2), 211–224.
Alm, P. A. (2004). Stuttering and the basal ganglia circuits: A critical review
of possible relations. Journal of Communication Disorders, 37 (4), 325–369.
Almasy, I. and Blangero, J. (2001). Endophenotypes as quantitative risk
factors for psychiatric disease: Rationale and study design. American
Journal of Medical Genetics, 105, 42–44.
Altmann, G. T. M. and Kamide, Y. (1999). Incremental interpretation at
verbs: Restricting the domain of subsequent reference. Cognition, 73,
247–264.
Alvares, R. L. and Downing, S. F. (1998). A survey of expressive communi-
cation skills in children with Angelman syndrome. American Journal of
Speech Language Pathology, 7, 14–24.
American Psychiatric Association (1994). Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of
Mental Disorders (DSM-IV). Washington, DC: American Psychiatric
Association.
Amodio, D. and Frith, C. (2006). Meeting of minds: the medial frontal
cortex and social cognition. Nature Reviews Neuroscience, 7, 268–277.
Amunts, K., Schleicher, A., Bürgel, U. et al. (1999). Broca’s region revisited:
Cytoarchitecture and intersubject variability. The Journal of Comparative
Neurology, 412, 319–341.
Andalman, A. S. and Fee, M. S. (2009). A basal ganglia-forebrain circuit in
the songbird biases motor output to avoid vocal errors. Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences, 106 (30), 12518–12523.
Anderson, D. J. (1992). Molecular control of neural development. In
Z. W. Hall (ed.), An Introduction to Molecular Neurobiology (pp. 355–387).
Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates.
Anderson, J. M., Gilmore, R., Roper, S. et al. (1999). Conduction aphasia and
the arcuate fasciculus: A reexamination of the Wernicke-Geschwind
model. Brain and Language, 70, 1–12.
540 References
Anderson, M. and Iwasa, Y. (1996). Sexual selection. Trends in Ecology and
Evolution, 11 (2), 53–58.
Anderson, M. C. and Neely, J.H. (1996). Interference and inhibition in mem-
ory retrieval. In E. L. Bjork and R. A. Bjork (eds.), Handbook of Perception and
Memory. Vol. X: Memory (pp. 237–313). San Diego, CA: Academic Press.
Anderson, S. R. and Lightfoot, D. W. (1999). The human language faculty as
an organ. Annual Review of Physiology, 62, 697–722.
Anderson S. W., Barrash. J., Bechara, A., and Tranel, D. (2006). Impairments
of emotion and real-world complex behavior following childhood- or
adult-onset damage to ventromedial prefrontal cortex. Journal of the
International Neuropsychological Society, 12, 224–235.
Angluin, D. (1982). Inference of reversible languages. Journal of the ACM
(JACM), 29 (3), 741–765.
Angold, A., Costello, E. J., and Erkanli, A. (1999). Comorbidity. Journal of
Child Psychology Psychiatry, 40, 57–87.
Ansink, B. J. J., Sarphatie, H., and Van Dongen, H. R. (1989). The Landau-
Kleffner syndrome: case report and theoretical considerations.
Neuropediatrics, 20, 170–172.
Anthoni, H., Zucchelli, M., and Matsson, H. (2007). A locus on 2p12 containing
the co-regulated MRPL19 and C2ORF3 genes is associated to dyslexia.
Human Molecular Genetics, 16, 667–77.
Anwander, A., Tittgemeyer, M., von Cramon, D. Y., Friederici, A. D., and
Knosche, T. R. (2007). Connectivity-based parrellation of Broca’s area.
Cerebral Cortex, 17, 816–825.
Archangeli, D. (1988). Aspects of underspecification theory. Phonology, 5,
183–207.
Arensburg, B., Schepartz, L. A., Tillier, A. M. et al. (1990). A reappraisal of the
anatomical basis for speech in middle Palaeolithic hominids. American
Journal of Physical Anthropology, 83, 137–146.
Arensburg, B., Tillier, A. M., Vandermeersch, B. et al. (1989). A middle
Palaeolithic human hyoid bone. Nature, 338, 758–760.
Ariew, Roger (1986). Descartes as critic of Galileo’s scientific methodology.
Synthese, 67, 77–90.
Armstrong, E. (1983). Relative brain size and metabolism in mammals.
Science, 220, 1302–1304.
Arnold, K. and Zuberbühler, K. (2006). Semantic combinations in primate
calls. Nature, 441, 303.
(2008). Meaningful call combinations in a non-human primate. Current
Biology, 18, R202–R203.
(2012). Call combinations in monkeys: Compositional or idiomatic
expressions? Brain and Language, 120 (3), 303–309.
Aronov, D., Andalman, A. S., and Fee, M. S. (2008). A specialized forebrain
circuit for vocal babbling in the juvenile songbird. Science, 320 (5876),
630–634.
References 541
Arosio, F., Branchini, C., Forgiarini, M. et al. (2010). SLI children’s weakness
in morphosyntax and pragmatics. In Y. Otsu (ed.), Proceedings of the
Tenth Tokyo Conference on Psycholinguistics. Tokyo: Hituzi Syobo Press.
Arsuaga, J. L. (1999). El collar del Neandertal. En busca de los primeros pensadores.
Madrid: Temas de Hoy.
Arsuaga, J. L. and Martı́nez, I. (1998). La especie elegida. La larga marcha de la
evolución humana. Madrid: Temas de Hoy.
Aslin, R. N., Saffran, J. R., and Newport, E. L. (1998). Computation of condi-
tional probability statistics by 8-month-old infants. Psychological Science,
9, 321–324.
Assadollahi, R. and Pulvermüller, F. (2003). Early influences of word length
and frequency: A group study using MEG. Neuroreport, 14 (8), 1183–1187.
Aulanko, R., Hari, R., Lounasmaa, O. V., Näätänen, R., and Sams, M. (1993).
Phonetic invariance in the human auditory cortex. Neuroreport, 4 (12),
1356–1358.
Avital, E. and Jablonka, E. (2000). Animal Traditions. Behavioural Inheritance in
Evolution. Cambridge University Press.
Axer, H., von Keyserlingk, A. G., Berks, G., and von Keyserlingk, D. G.
(2001). Supra- and infrasylvian conduction aphasia. Brain and
Language, 76, 317–331.
Ayala, F. and Cela Conde, C. (2006). La Piedra que se Volvió Palabra. Las Claves
Evolutivas de la Humanidad. Madrid: Alianza.
Ayotte, J., Peretz, I., Rousseau, I., Bard, C., and Bojanowski, M. (2000).
Patterns of music agnosia associated with middle cerebral artery
infarcts. Brain, 123, 1926–1938.
Baaré, W. F. C., Pol, H. E. H., and Boomsma, D. I. (2001). Quantitative genetic
modeling of variation in human brain morphology. Cerebral Cortex, 11,
816–824.
Baayen, R. H. and del Prado Martı́n, F. M. (2005). Semantic density and past-
tense formation in three Germanic languages. Language, 81, 666–698.
Baayen, R. H., Davidson, D. J., and Bates, D. M. (2008). Mixed-effects model-
ing with crossed random effects for subjects and items. Journal of
Memory and Language, 59, 390–412.
Baayen, R. H., Dijkstra, T., and Schreuder, R. (1997). Singulars and plurals
in Dutch: Evidence for a parallel dual-route model. Journal of Memory
and Language, 37, 94–117.
Baddeley, A. D. (1986). Working Memory. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Baddeley, A. D., Gathercole, S., and Papagno, C. (1998). The phonological
loop as a language learning device. Psychological Review, 105, 158–173.
Baddeley, A. D., Thomson, N., and Buchanan, M. (1975). Word length and
the structure of short-term memory. Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal
Behavior, 14, 575–589.
Badecker, W. and Kuminiak, F. (2007). Morphology, agreement and work-
ing memory retrieval in sentence production: Evidence from gender
and case in Slovak. Journal of Memory and Language, 56, 65–85.
542 References
Badecker, W. and Straub, K. (2002). The processing role of structural
constraints on the interpretation of pronouns and anaphors.
Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory and Cognition,
28, 748–749.
Badecker, B. and Lewis, R. (2007). A new theory and computational model of
working memory in sentence production: Agreement errors as failures
of cue-based retrieval. Paper presented at the 20th Annual CUNY
Sentence Processing Conference. La Jolla, CA: University of California
at San Diego.
Bader, M., Meng, M., and Bayer, J. (2000). Case and reanalysis. Journal of
Psycholinguistic Research, 29, 37–52.
Badre, D. and Wagner, A. D. (2007). Left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex
and the cognitive control of memory. Neuropsychologia, 45 (13),
2883–2901.
Bagri, A., Marin, O., Plump, A. S. et al. (2002). Slit proteins prevent midline
crossing and determine the dorsoventral position of major axonal
pathways in the mammalian forebrain. Neuron, 33, 233–248.
Bahlmann, J., Rodriguez-Fornells, A., Rotte, M., and Münte, T. F. (2007). An
fMRI study of canonical and noncanonical word order in German.
Human Brain Mapping, 28, 940–949.
Bahlmann, J., Schubotz, R. I., and Friederici, A.D. (2008). Hierarchical artificial
grammar processing engages Broca’s area. NeuroImage, 42 (2), 525–534.
Bak, P., Tang, C., and Wiesenfeld, W. (1988). Self-organized criticality.
Physical Review A, 38, 364–374.
Baker, C. L. (1978). Introduction to Generative-Transformational Syntax.
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.
Baker, M. (2001). The Atoms of Language. New York: Basic Books.
(2005). Mapping the terrain of language learning. Language Learning and
Development, 1 (1), 93–129.
Balari, S., Benı́tez Burraco, A., Camps, M. et al. (2008). ¿Homo loquens
neanderthalensis? En torno a las capacidades simbólicas y
lingüı́sticas del neandertal. Munibe Antropologia-Arkeologia, 59, 3–24.
Balari, S., Benı́tez-Burraco, A., Camps, M., Longa, V. M., and Lorenzo, G.
(2010). La importancia de ser moderno. Problemas de método e
ideologı́a en el debate sobre la cognición y la conducta de los
Neandertales. Ludus Vitalis. Revista de Filosofı́a de las Ciencias de la Vida,
XVIII (34), 143–170.
Balari, S., Benı́tez-Burraco, A., Camps, M., Longa, V. M., Lorenzo, G., and
Uriagereka, J. (2011). The archaeological record speaks: Bridging
anthropology and linguistics. International Journal of Evolutionary
Biology (Special Issue: Key Evolutionary Transformations in Homo sapiens),
doi:10.4061/2011/382679.
Balari, S. and Lorenzo, G. (2008). Pere Alberch’s developmental
morphospaces and the evolution of cognition. Biological Theory, 3,
297–304.
References 543
(2009a). Computational phenotypes: Where the theory of computation
meets evo-devo. Biolinguistics, 3, 2–60.
(2009b). Comunicación. Donde la lingüı́stica evolutiva se equivocó. Report de
recerca CGT-09–10, Centre de Lingüı́stica Teorica, Universidad
Autònoma de Barcelona.
(2010a). ¿Para qué sirve un ballestrinque? Reflexiones sobre el funciona-
miento de artefactos y organismos en un mundo sin funciones.
Teorema. Revista Internacional de Filosofı́a, 29, 57–76.
(2010b). Communication: Where evolutionary linguistics went wrong.
Biological Theory, 5(3), 228–239.
Baldo, J. V. and Dronkers, N. F. (2006). The role of inferior parietal and inferior
frontal cortex in working memory. Neuropsychology, 20, 529–538.
Baldo, J. V., Klostermann E. C., and Dronkers, N. F. (2008). It’s either a cook
or a baker: Patients with conduction aphasia get the gist but lose the
trace. Brain and Language, 105, 134–140.
Baldwin, C. Y. and Clark, K. B. (2000). Design Rules, Volume I: The Power of
Modularity. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Balme, J., Davidson, I., McDonald, J., Stern, N., and Veth, P. (2009). Symbolic
behaviour and the peopling of the southern arc route to Australia.
Quaternary International, (202), 1–2, 59–68.
Balter, M. (2010). Animal communication reveals roots of language (News
Focus, Evolution of Language). Science, 328, 969–971.
Banker, G., Churchill, L., and Cotman, C. W. (1974). Proteins of the post-
synaptic density. Journal of Cellular Biology, 63, 456–465.
Bar-Yosef, O. (1998). On the nature of transitions: The Middle to Upper
Palaeolithic and the Neolithic revolution. Cambridge Archaeological
Journal, 8, 141–163.
(2002). The Upper Paleolithic revolution. Annual Review of Anthropology,
31, 363–393.
Barandiarán, I. (2006). Imágenes y adornos en el arte portátil paleolı́tico.
Barcelona: Ariel.
Barbosa, P. (1995). Null subjects. PhD dissertation, MIT, Cambridge, MA.
Bard, E. G., Robertson, D., and Sorace, A. (1996). Magnitude estimation of
linguistic acceptability. Language, 72, 32–68.
Barker, C. (2002). Continuations and the nature of quantification. Natural
Language Semantics, 10, 211–242.
Barkovich, A. J., Ferriero, D.M., Barr, R.M. et al. (1998). Microlissencephaly: a
heterogeneous malformation of cortical development. Neuropediatrics,
29, 113–119.
Baron-Cohen, S., Leslie, A. M., and Frith, U. (1985). Does the autistic child
have a “theory of mind”? Cognition, 21 (1), 37–46.
Baron-Cohen, S. and Ring, H. (1994). A model of the mindreading system:
Neuropsychological and neurobiological perspectives. In P. Mitchell
and C. Lewis (eds.), Origins of an Understanding Mind (pp. 183–207). Hove:
Lawrence Erlbaum.
544 References
Baron-Cohen, S., Ring, H., and Moriarty, J. (1994). The brain basis of theory
of mind: The role of the orbito-frontal region. British Journal of
Psychiatry, 165, 640–649.
Barrash J., Tranel D., and Anderson S W. (2000). Acquired personality
disturbances associated with bilateral damage to the ventromedial
prefrontal region. Developmental Neuropsychology, 18, 355–381.
Barrett, A. M. (1910). A case of pure word-deafness with autopsy. Journal of
Nervous and Mental Disease, 37, 73–92.
Bartels, C. and Wallesch, C.-W. (1996). Nineteenth-century accounts of the
nature of the lexicon and semantics: Riddles posed by the case of Johann
Voit. In C. Code, C-W. Wallesch, Y. Joanette, and A.R. Lecourse (eds.),
Classic Cases in Neuropsychology (pp. 53–68). Hove: Psychology Press.
Bartke, S., Rösler, F., Streb, J., and Wiese, R. (2005). An ERP-study of German
“irregular” morphology. Journal of Neurolinguistics, 18, 29–55.
Bartlett, C. W., Flax, J. F., Logue, M. W. et al. (2002). A major susceptibility
locus for specific language impairment is located on 13q21. American
Journal of Human Genetics, 71, 45–55.
Barton, R. A., Purvis, A., and Harvey, P. H. (1995). Evolutionary radiation of
visual and olfactory brain systems in primates, bats and insectivores.
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B, 348, 381–392.
Batali, J. (1998). Computational simulations of the emergence of grammar.
In J. R. Hurford, M. Studdert-Kennedy, and C. Knight (eds.), Approaches
to the Evolution of Language: Social and Cognitive Bases (pp. 405–426).
Cambridge University Press.
(2002). The negotiation and acquisition of recursive grammars as a result
of competition among exemplars. In T. Briscoe (ed.), Linguistic Evolution
through Language Acquisition: Formal and Computational Models. Cambridge
University Press.
Bates, E. (1999). Plasticity, localization, and language development. In
S. H. Broman and J. M. Fletcher (eds.), The Changing Nervous System:
Neurobiological Consequences of Early Brain Disorders (pp. 214–253). New
York: Oxford University Press.
Bates, E. and McWhinney, B. (1989). The Crosslinguistic Study of Sentence
Processing. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Bates, E., Thal, D., Finlay, B. L., and Clancy, B. (2002). Early language
development and its neural correlates. In S. J. Segalowitz and I. Rapin
(eds.), Child Neurology, 2nd edn., Vol. VIII (pp. 109–176). Amsterdam:
Elsevier.
Bates, E.A., Thai, D., and Janowsky, J. (1992). Early language development and
its neural correlates. In I. Rapin and S. Segalowitz (eds.), Handbook of
Neuropsychology, vol. VII, Child Neuropsychology (pp. 69–110). Amsterdam:
Elsevier.
Bateson, W. (1894). Materials for the Study of Variation: Treated with Especial Regard
to Discontinuity in the Origin of Species. Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins
University Press.
References 545
Bechara, A., Damasio, H., and Damasio, A. R. (2000). Emotion, decision
making and the orbitofrontal cortex. Cerebral Cortex, 10, 295–307.
Beckers, G. J. L., Bolhuis, J. J., Okanoya, K., and Berwick, R. C. (2012).
Birdsong neurolinguistics: songbird context-free grammar claim is
premature. NeuroReport, 23 (3), 139–145.
Bedny, M., Caramazza, A., Grossman, E., Pascual-Leone, A., and Saxe, R.
(2008). Concepts are more than percepts: the case of action verbs.
Journal of Neuroscience, 28 (44), 11347.
Beheim-Schwarzbach, D. (1975). Further studies of the cytoarchitectonic
division in the dorsal surface of the 1st temporal gyrus of a linguistic
genius and 2 anthropoids. Zeitschrift für mikroskopisch-anatomische
Forschung, 89, 759–776.
Beldade, P. and Brakefield, P. M. (2003). Concerted evolution and develop-
mental integration in modular butterfly wing patterns. Evolutionary
Development, 5 (2), 169–179.
Belew, R. K. and Mitchell, M. (1996). Adaptive Individuals in Evolving
Populations: Models and Algorithms. Redwood City, CA: Addison-Wesley.
Belletti, A., Ed. (2004). Structures and Beyond: The Cartography of Syntactic
Structures, Volume III. New York, Oxford University Press.
Bellugi, U., Bihrle, A., Jernigan, T., Trauner, D., and Doherty, S. (1990).
Neuropsychological, neurological, and neuroanatomical profile of
Williams syndrome. American Journal of Medical Genetics Supplement, 6,
115–125.
Bellugi, U., Lichtenberger, L., Jones, W., Lai, Z., and St George, M. (2000). I.
The neurocognitive profile of Williams Syndrome: a complex pattern
of strengths and weaknesses. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 12, Suppl
1, 7–29.
Bemis, D. and Pylkkänen, L. (2010). Domain-general mechanisms in the
construction of meaning. Paper presented at the CUNY Conference on
Human Sentence Processing, New York City.
(2011). Simple composition: A magnetoencephalography investigation
into the comprehension of minimal linguistic phrases. The Journal of
Neuroscience, 31 (8), 2801.
Benazzi, S., Douka, K., Fornai, C. et al. (2011). Early dispersal of modern
humans in Europe and implications for Neanderthal behavior. Nature,
479, 525–528.
Ben-Shachar, M., Hendler, T., Kahn, I., Ben-Bashat, D., and Grodzinsky, Y.
(2003). The neural reality of syntactic transformations: Evidence
from functional magnetic resonance imaging. Psychological Science, 14,
433–440.
Ben-Shachar, M., Palti, D., and Grodzinsky, Y. (2004). Neural correlates of
syntactic movement: converging evidence from two fMRI experi-
ments. NeuroImage, 21, 1320–1336.
Benı́tez-Burraco, A. (2005). Caracterización neuroanatómica y neuro-
fisiológica del lenguaje humano [Neuroanatomical and
546 References
neurophysiological characterization of human language]. RSEL,
35, 461–494.
(2008). FOXP2 y la biologı́a molecular del lenguaje: nuevas evidencias. II.
Aspectos moleculares e implicaciones para la ontogenia y la filogenia
del lenguaje [FOXP2 and the molecular biology of language: new evi-
dences. II. Molecular aspects and implications for the ontogeny and
phylogeny of language] Revista de Neurologı́a, 46, 351–359.
(2009). Genes y lenguaje: aspectos ontogenéticos, filogenéticos y cognitivos [Genes
and language: ontogenetic, phylogenetic, and cognitive aspects]. Barcelona:
Reverté.
Benı́tez-Burraco, A., Longa, V. M., Lorenzo, G., and Uriagereka, J. (2008). Also
sprach Neanderthalsis ... Or did she? Biolinguistics, 2 (2–3), 225–232.
Bentin, S., McCarthy, G., and Wood, C. C. (1985). Event-related potentials,
lexical decision, and semantic priming. Electroencephalography and
Clinical Neurophysiology, 60, 343–355.
Bentin, S., Mouchetant-Rostaing, Y., Giard, M. H., Echallier, J. F., and
Pernier, J. (1999). ERP manifestations of processing printed words at
different psycholinguistic levels: Time course and scalp distribution.
Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 11, 235–260.
Beretta, A., Campbell, C., Carr, T.H. et al. (2003). An ER-fMRI investigation of
morphological inflection in German reveals that the brain makes a disti-
nctionbetweenregularandirregularforms.BrainandLanguage,85,67–92.
Berko, J. (1958). The child’s learning of English morphology. Word, 14,
150–177.
Berlin, H. A., Rolls, E. T., and Kischka, U. (2004). Impulsivity, time percep-
tion, emotion, and reinforcement sensitivity in patients with orbito-
frontal cortex lesions. Brain, 127, 1108–1126.
Bernal, B. and Ardila, A. (2009). The role of the arcuate fasciculus in con-
duction aphasia. Brain, 132, 2309–2316.
Bernal, S., Dehaene-Lambertz, G., Millotte, S., and Christophe, A. (2010).
Two-year-olds compute syntactic structure on-line. Developmental
Science, 13, 69–76.
Bernal, S., Lidz, J., Millotte, S., and Christophe, A. (2007). Syntax constrains
the acquisition of verb meaning. Language Learning and Development, 3,
325–341.
Berndt, R. S., Haendiges, A. N., Burton, M. W., and Mitchum, C. C. (2002).
Grammatical class and imageability in aphasic word production: their
effects are independent. Journal of Neurolinguistics, 15, 353–371.
Bertram, R., Schreuder, R., and Baayen, H. (2000). The balance of storage
and computation in morphological processing: The role of word for-
mation type, affixal homonymy and productivity. Journal of
Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory and Cognition, 26, 489–511.
Berwick, R.C. and Chomsky, N. (2012). The biolinguistic program: the current
state of its evolution and development. In A.M. Di Sciullo and C. Aguero
(eds.), Biolinguistic Investigations (pp. 19–41). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
References 547
Berwick, R.C., Chomsky, N., and Piattelli-Palmarini, M. (in press). Poverty of
the stimulus stands: Why recent challenges fail. In M. Piattelli-Palmarini
and R.C. Berwick (eds.), Rich Languages from Poor Inputs. Oxford University
Press.
Berwick, R. C., Okanoya, K., Beckers, G., and Bolhuis, J. J. (2011). Song to
syntax: the linguistics of birdsong. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 16,
113–121.
Berwick, R. C., Pietroski, P., Yankama, B., and Chomsky, N. (2011). Poverty
of the stimulus revisited. Cognitive Science, 35, 1207–1242.
Berwick, R. C. and A. S. Weinberg. (1984). The Grammatical Basis of Linguistic
Performance. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Best, W. (2005). Investigation of a new intervention for children with word-
finding problems. International Journal of Language and Communication
Disorders, 40, 279–318.
Bever, T. (1973). Serial position and response biases do not account for the
effect of syntactic structure on the location of brief noises during
sentences. Journal of Psycholinguistic Research, 2, 287–288.
Bever, T. G., Lackner, J. R., and Kirk, R. (1969). The underlying structures of
sentences are the primary units of immediate speech processing.
Attention, Perception, and Psychophysics, 5 (4), 225–234.
Bialystok, E. (2006). Effect of bilingualism and computer video game
experience on the Simon Task. Canadian Journal of Experimental
Psychology, 60 (1), 68–79.
(2010). Global-local and trail-making tasks by monolingual and bilingual
children: Beyond inhibition. Developmental Psychology, 46 (1), 93–105.
(2011). Coordination of executive functions in monolingual and bilin-
gual children. Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 110, 461–468.
Bialystok, E., Barac, R., Blaye, A., and Poulin-Dubois, D. (2010). Word map-
ping and executive functioning in young monolingual and bilingual
children. Journal of Cognition and Development, 11 (4), 485–508.
Bialystok E., Craik, F. I. M., and Freedman, M. (2007). Bilingualism as a
protection against the onset of symptoms of dementia.
Neuropsychologia, 45 459–464.
Bialystok, E., Craik, F. I.M, Grady, C. et al. (2005). Effect of bilingualism on
cognitive control in the Simon task: evidence from MEG. NeuroImage, 24,
40–49.
Bialystok, E., Craik, F. I. M., Klein, R., and Viswanathan, M. (2004).
Bilingualism, aging, and cognitive control: Evidence from the Simon
task. Psychology and Aging, 19, 290–303.
Bialystok, E., Craik, F., and Luk, G. (2008). Cognitive control and lexical
access in younger and older bilinguals. Journal of Experimental
Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 34 (4), 859–873.
Bialystok, E., Craik, F. I. M., and Ruocco, A. C. (2006). Dual-modality moni-
toring in a classification task: The effects of bilingualism and ageing.
The Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology, 59 (11), 1968–1983.
548 References
Bialystok, E., Craik, F.I.M., and Ryan, J. (2006). Executive control in a modified
antisaccade task: effects of aging and bilingualism. Journal of Experimental
Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 32 (6), 1341–1354.
Bialystok, E. and Feng, A. (2009). Language proficiency and executive con-
trol in proactive interference: Evidence from monolingual and bilin-
gual children and adults. Brain and Language, 109, 93–100.
Bialystok, E., Martin, M. M., and Viswanathan, M. (2005). Bilingualism
across the lifespan: The rise and fall of inhibitory control.
International Journal of Bilingualism, 9, 103–119.
Bialystok E. and Senman L. (2004). Executive processes in appearance-
reality tasks: The role of inhibition of attention and symbolic repre-
sentation. Child Development, 75 (2), 562–579.
Bialystok, E. and Shapero, D. (2005). Ambiguous benefits: The effect of
bilingualism on reversing ambiguous figures. Developmental Science, 8,
595–604.
Bialystok, E. and Viswanathan, M. (2009). Components of executive control
with advantages for bilingual children in two cultures. Cognition, 112,
494–500.
Bick, A. S., Frost, R., and Goelman, G. (2010). Imaging implicit morphological
processing: Evidence from Hebrew. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 22,
1955–1969.
Bick, A. S., Goelman, G., and Frost, R. (2008). Neural correlates of morpho-
logical processes in Hebrew. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 20,
406–420.
(2011). Hebrew brain vs. English brain: Language modulates the way it is
processed. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 23 (9), 2280–2290.
Bickerton, D. (1990). Language and Species. University of Chicago Press.
(2002). From protolanguage to language. In T. J. Crow (ed.), The Speciation
of Modern Homo Sapiens (pp. 103–120). Oxford University Press.
(2009). Adam’s Tongue: How Humans Made Language, How Language Made
Humans. New York: Hill and Wang.
Biedermann, B., Ruh, N., Nickels, L., and Coltheart, M. (2008). Information
retrieval in tip of the tongue states: New data and methodological
advances. Journal of Psycholinguistic Research, 37, 171–198.
Binder, J. R. (2000). The new neuroanatomy of speech perception. Brain,
123 (12), 2371–2372.
Binder, J. R., Desai, R. H., Graves, W. W., and Conant, L. L. (2009). Where is
the semantic system? A critical review and meta-analysis of 120 func-
tional neuroimaging studies. Cerebral Cortex, 19, 2767–2796.
Binder, J. R., Frost, J. A., Hammeke, T. A. et al. (2000). Human temporal
lobe activation by speech and nonspeech sounds. Cerebral Cortex, 10
(5), 512–528.
Binder, J. R., Frost, J. A., Hammeke, T. A. et al. (1997). Human brain language
areas identified by functional magnetic resonance imaging. Journal of
Neuroscience, 17 (1), 353.
References 549
Binder, J. and Price, C. (2006). Functional imaging of language. In R. Cabeza
and A. Kingstone (eds.), Handbook on Functional Neuroimaging of Cognition
(2nd edn., pp. 187–251). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Binford, L. S. (1985). Human ancestors: changing views of their behavior.
Journal of Anthropological Archaeology, 4, 292–327.
(1989). Debating Archaeology. San Diego, CA: Academic Press.
Binkofski, F., Amunts, K., Stephan, K. M. et al. (2000). Broca’s region sub-
serves imagery of motion: A combined cytoarchitectonic and fMRI
study. Human Brain Mapping, 11, 273–285.
Biran, M. and Friedmann, N. (2002). The effect of semantic and phonological
cueing on the naming of aphasics with deficits in various levels of lexical
processing [in Hebrew]. Israeli Journal of Language, Speech and Hearing
Disorders, 24, 21–40.
(2005). From phonological paraphasias to the structure of the phonological
output lexicon. Language and Cognitive Processes, 20, 589–616.
(2012). The representation of lexical-syntactic information: Evidence
from syntactic and lexical retrieval impairments in aphasia. Cortex,
48, 1103–1127.
(in press). “The crane is lifting the car”: Access to grammatical gender of
nouns in words and sentences [in Hebrew]. Language and Brain, 10.
Bird, H., Howard, D., and Franklin, S. (2000). Why is a verb like an inani-
mate object? Grammatical category and semantic category deficits.
Brain and Language, 72, 246–309.
Bird, H., Lambon-Ralph, M. A., Seidenberg, M. S., McClelland, J. L., and
Patterson, K. (2003). Deficits in phonology and past-tense morphol-
ogy: What’s the connection? Journal of Memory and Language, 48,
502–526.
Birdsong, D. (1999). Introduction: Whys and why nots of the Critical Period
Hypothesis for second language acquisition. In D. Birdsong (ed.),
Second Language Acquisition and the Critical Period Hypothesis (pp. 1–22).
Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Birney, R. and Teevan, R. (eds.) (1961). Instinct. New York: Van Nostrand.
Bisang, W. (2008). Precategoriality and syntax-based parts of speech: The
case of Late Archaic Chinese. Studies in Language, 32, 568–589.
Bishop, D. V. M. (2001a). Genetic and environmental risks for specific lan-
guage impairment in children. Philos. Trans. R. Soc. Lond., B, Biol. Sci., 356,
369–380.
(2001b). Genetic influences on language impairment and literacy prob-
lems in child. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, 42, 189–198.
(2002). The role of genes in the etiology of specific language impairment.
Journal of Communication Disorders, 35, 311–328.
Bishop, D. V. M. and Adams, C. (1992). Comprehension problems in chil-
dren with specific language impairment: literal and inferential mean-
ing. Journal of Speech and Hearing Research, 35, 119–129.
550 References
Bishop, D. V. M., Adams, C. V., and Norbury, C. F. (2006). Distinct genetic
influences on grammar and phonological short-term memory deficits:
Evidence from 6-year-old twins. Genes, Brain and Behavior, 5, 158–169.
Bishop, D. V. M. and Leonard, L. (2001). Speech and Language Impairments
in Children: Causes, Characteristics, Intervention and Outcome. Oxford:
Psychology Press.
Bishop, D. V. M., North, T., and Donlan, C. (1995). Genetic basis for specific
language impairment: evidence from a twin study. Developmental
Medicine and Child Neurology, 37, 56–71.
Black, M. and Chiat, S. (2002). Noun–verb dissociations: a multi-faceted
phenomenon. Journal of Neurolinguistics, 16, 231–250.
Bles, M. and Jansma, B. M. (2008). Phonological processing of ignored dis-
tractor pictures, an fMRI investigation. BMC Neuroscience, 9, 20.
Bley-Vroman, R. (1990). The logical problem of foreign language learning.
Linguistic Analysis, 20, 3–49.
Bloom, P. (2000). How Children Learn the Meanings of Words. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
(2001). Précis of how children learn the meanings of words. Behavioral
and Brain Sciences, 24, 1095–1134.
Blumstein, S. E. (1998). Phonological aspects of aphasia. In M. T. Sarno (ed.),
Acquired Aphasia (pp. 157–185). San Diego, CA: Academic Press.
(2009). Reflections on the cognitive neuroscience of language. In
M. Gazzaniga (ed.), The Cognitive Neurosciences IV (pp. 1235–1240).
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(2011). Neural systems underlying lexical competition in auditory
word recognition and spoken word production: Evidence from apha-
sia and functional neuroimaging. In G. Gaskell and P. Zwitserlood
(eds.), Lexical Representation: A Multidisciplinary Approach (pp. 123–147).
Berlin: De Gruyter Mouton.
Boatman, D., Hart, J. J., Lesser, R. P. et al. (1998). Right hemisphere speech
perception revealed by amobarbital injection and electrical interfer-
ence. Neurology, 51, 458–464.
Bock, K. and Levelt, W. (1994). Language production. Grammatical encod-
ing. In M. A. Gernsbacher (ed.), Handbook of Psycholinguistics (pp. 945–
984). San Diego, CA: Academic Press.
Bock, K. and Miller, C. (1991). Broken agreement. Cognitive Psychology, 23 (1),
45–93.
Boë, L.-J., Heim, J.-L., Honda, K., and Maeda, S. (2002). The potential
Neanderthal vowel space was as large as that of modern humans.
Journal of Phonetics, 30(3), 465–484.
Böe, L.-J., Heim, J.-L., Honda, K., Maeda, S., Badin, P., and Abry, C. (2007).
The vocal tract of newborn humans and Neanderthals. Acoustic capa-
bilities and consequences for the debate on the origin of language. A
reply to Lieberman (2007). Journal of Phonetics, 35 (4), 564–581.
References 551
Boë, L.-J., Maeda, S., and Heim, J.-L. (1999). Neanderthal man was not
morphologically handicapped for speech. Evolution of Communication,
3 (1), 49–77.
Boeckx, C. (2006). Linguistic Minimalism: Origins, Concepts, Methods, and Aims.
Oxford University Press.
(2008). Bare Syntax. New York: Oxford University Press.
(2009). Language in Cognition: Uncovering Mental Structures and the Rules
Behind Them. Malden, MA: Wiley-Blackwell.
(ed.) (2011). The Oxford Handbook of Linguistic Minimalism. New York: Oxford
University Press.
Boeckx, C. and Grohmann, K. K. (2007). The Biolinguistics manifesto.
Biolinguistics, 1, 1–8.
Boeckx, C. and Longa V. M. (2011). Lenneberg’s views on language develop-
ment and evolution and their relevance for modern biolinguistics.
Biolinguistics, 5 (3), 254–273.
Boesch, C. and Boesch, H. (1984). Mental map in wild chimpanzees: An
analysis of hammer transports for nut cracking. Primates, 25, 160–170.
(1990). Tool use and tool making in wild chimpanzees. Folia Primatologia,
54, 86–99.
Bohland, J. W. and Guenther, F H. (2006). An fMRI investigation of syllable
sequence production. NeuroImage, 32 (2), 821–841.
Bolhuis, J. J., Okanoya, K., and Scharff, C. (2010). Twitter evolution: con-
verging mechanisms in birdsong and human speech. Nature Reviews
Neuroscience, 11, 747–759.
Bonaglia, M. C., Giorda, R., Borgatti, R. et al. (2001). Disruption of the
ProSAP2 gene in a t (12;22) (q24. 1;q13. 3) is associated with the
22q13. 3 deletion syndrome. American Journal of Human Genetics, 69,
261–268.
Bond, J., Roberts, E., Mochida, G. H. et al. (2002). ASPM is a major determi-
nant of cerebral cortical size. Nature Genetics, 32, 316–320.
Bonkowsky, J. L. and Chien, C. B. (2005). Molecular cloning and develop-
mental expression of foxP2 in zebrafish. Developmental Dynamics, 234,
740–746.
Borer, H. (1983). Parametric Syntax: Case Studies in Semitic and Romance
Languages. Dordrecht: Foris.
Borer, H. and K. Wexler. (1987). The maturation of syntax. In T. Roeper and
E. Williams (eds.), Parameter Setting (pp. 123–172). Dordrecht: Reidel.
Bornkessel-Schlesewsky, I. and Schlesewsky, M. (2007). The wolf in sheep’s
clothing: against a new judgement-driven imperialism. Theoretical
Linguistics, 33, 319–334.
(2009a). Processing Syntax and Morphology: A Neurocognitive Perspective.
Oxford University Press.
(2009b). The role of prominence information in the real time compre-
hension of transitive constructions: a cross-linguistic approach.
Language and Linguistics Compass, 3, 19–58.
552 References
Bornkessel-Schlesewsky, I., Grewe, T., and Schlesewsky, M. (2012).
Prominence vs. aboutness in sequencing: A functional distinction
within the left inferior frontal gyrus. Brain and Language, 120, 96–107.
Bornkessel-Schlesewsky, I., Kretzschmar, F., Tune, S. et al. (2011). Think
globally: Cross-linguistic variation in electrophysiological activity dur-
ing sentence comprehension. Brain and Language, 117, 133–152.
Bornkessel, I., McElree, B., Schlesewsky, M., and Friederici, A. D. (2004). Multi-
dimensional contributions to garden path strength: Dissociating phrase
structure from case marking. Journal of Memory and Language, 51, 495–522.
Bornkessel-Schlesewsky, I., Schlesewsky, M., and von Cramon, D. Y. (2009).
Word order and Broca’s region: Evidence for a supra-syntactic per-
spective. Brain and Language, 111, 125–139.
Bornkessel, I., Zysset, S., Friederici, A. D., von Cramon, D. Y., and
Schlesewsky, M. (2005). Who did what to whom? The neural basis of
argument hierarchies during language comprehension. NeuroImage,
26, 221–233.
Bortfeld, H., Morgan, J. L., Golinkoff, R. M., and Rathbun, K. (2005). Mommy
and me: Familiar names help launch babies into speech-stream seg-
mentation. Psychological Science, 16, 298–304.
Bossong, G. (1985). Differentielle Objektmarkierung in den neuiranischen Sprachen
[= Differential object marking in the New Iranian languages]. Tübingen: Narr.
Botha, R. (2000). Discussing the evolution of the assorted beasts called
language. Language & Communication, 20, 149–160.
(2009). Theoretical underpinnings of inferences about language evolu-
tion: the syntax used at Blombos Cave. In R. Botha and C. Knight (eds.),
The Cradle of Language (pp. 93–111). New York: Oxford University Press.
(2010). On the soundness of inferring modern language from symbolic
behavior. Cambridge Archaeological Journal, 20 (3), 345–356.
Bottari, P., Cipriana, P., and Chilosi, A. M. (1996). Root infinitives in Italian
SLI children. In A. Stringfellow, D. Cahana-Amitay, E. Hyghes, and
A. Zukowski (eds.), BUCLD 20 (pp. 75–86). Somerville, MA: Cascadilla
Press.
Bottini, G., Corcoran, R., Sterzi, R. et al. (1994). The role of the right hemi-
sphere in the interpretation of figurative aspects of language: A posi-
tron emission tomography study. Brain, 117, 1241–1253.
Botvinik, M. M., Braver, T. S., Barch, D. M., Carter, C. S., and Cohen, J. D.
(2001). Conflict monitoring and cognitive control. Psychological Review,
108 (3), 624–652.
Bourikas, D., Pekarik, V., Baeriswyl, T. et al. (2005). Sonic hedgehog guides
commissural axons along the longitudinal axis of the spinal cord.
Nature Neuroscience, 8, 297–304.
Bouzouggar, A., Barton, N., Vanhaeren, M. et al. (2007). 82,000-year-old
shell beads from north Africa and implications for the origins of
modern human behavior. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
of the United States of America, 104, 9964–9969.
References 553
Bowmaker, J. K. (1998). Evolution of colour vision in vertebrates. Eye, 12
(3b), 541–547.
Boyar, F. Z., Whitney, M. M., Lossie, A. C. et al. (2001). A family with a
grandmaternally derived interstitial duplication of proximal 15q.
Clinical Genetics, 60, 421–430.
Bozic, M., Marslen-Wilson, W., Stamatakis, E. A., Davis, M. H., and
Tyler, L. K. (2007). Differentiating morphology, form and meaning:
Neural correlates of morphological complexity. Journal of Cognitive
Neuroscience, 19, 1464–1475.
Braaten, R., Petzoldt, M., and Cybenko, A. (2007). Recognition memory for
conspecific and heterospecific song in juvenile zebra finches,
Taeniopygia guttata. Animal Behaviour, 73 (3), 403–413.
Bradlow, A. R. (1995). A comparative acoustic study of English and
Spanish vowels. The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, 97
(3), 1916.
Bradshaw, J. L. and Nettleton, N. C. (1981). The nature of hemispheric
specialization in man. Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 4, 51–63.
Brainard, M. S. and Doupe, A. J. (2000). Interruption of a basal ganglia-
forebrain circuit prevents plasticity of learned vocalizations. Nature,
404 (6779), 762–766.
Brennan, J. (2010). Incrementally dissociating syntax and semantics.
Unpublished doctoral dissertation, New York University.
Brennan, J., Nir, Y., Hasson, U. et al. (2012). Syntactic structure building in
the anterior temporal lobe during natural story listening. Brain and
Language, 120, 163–173.
Brennan, J. and Pylkkänen, L. (2008). Processing events: Behavioral and
neuromagnetic correlates of aspectual coercion. Brain and Language,
106, 132–143.
(2010a). Processing psych verbs: Behavioral and MEG measures of two
different types of semantic complexity. Language and Cognitive Processes,
25, 777–807.
(2010b). Brain regions associated with rapid word-by-word sentence
processing. Paper presented at the Neurobiology of Language
Conference, San Diego, CA.
(2012). The time-course and spatial distribution of brain activity associ-
ated with sentence processing. NeuroImage, 60, 1139–1148.
Brent, M. R. and Cartwright, T. A. (1996). Distributional regularity and
phonotactic constraints are useful for segmentation. Cognition, 61,
93–125.
Brentari, D. (ed.) (2010). Sign Languages. Cambridge University Press.
Bresnan, J. (2001). Lexical Functional Grammar. Oxford: Blackwell.
(2007). Is syntactic knowledge probabilistic? Experiments with the English
dative alternation. In S. Featherston and W. Sternefeld (eds.), Roots:
Linguistics in Search of Its Evidential Base (pp. 77–96), Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter, 77–96.
554 References
Bresnan, J. and Ford, M. (2010). Predicting syntax: Processing dative con-
structions in American and Australian varieties of English. Language,
86 (1), 186–213.
Bresnan, J. and Hay, J. (2008). Gradient grammar: An effect of animacy on
the syntax of give in New Zealand and American English. Lingua, 118
(2), 245–259.
Brighton, H. (2002). Compositional syntax from cultural transmission.
Artificial Life, 8, 25–54.
Brighton, H., Smith, K., and Kirby, S. (2005). Language as an evolutionary
system. Physics of Life Reviews, 2 (3), 177–226.
Briscoe,E.J.(2000).Grammaticalacquisition:Inductivebiasandcoevolutionof
language and the language acquisition device. Language, 76 (2), 245–296.
Britten, R. J. and Davidson, E. H. (1969). Gene regulation for higher cells: A
theory. Science, 165 (3891), 349–357.
Broadbent, D. E. (1958). Perception and Communication. New York: Oxford
University Press.
Broca, P. (1861). Remarques sur le siège de la faculté du langage articulé;
suivies d’une observation d’aphemie. Bulletin de la Société Anatomique, 6,
330–357.
Brock, J. (2007). Language abilities in Williams syndrome: A critical review.
Development and Psychopathology, 19 (1), 97–127.
Brodmann, K. (1909). Vergleichende Lokalisationslehre der Großhirnrinde.
Leipzig: J. A. Barth.
Bromberger, S. and Halle, M. (1994). The ontology of phonology. In
D. Prawitz, B. Skyrms, and D. Westerhäl (eds.), Logic, Methodology and
Philosophy IX (pp. 725–743). Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Broom, Y. M. and Doctor, E. A. (1995). Developmental surface dyslexia: A
case study of the efficacy of a remediation programme. Cognitive
Neuropsychology, 12, 69–110.
Browman, C. P. and Goldstein, L. (1989). Articulatory gestures as phonolog-
ical units. Phonology, 6, 201–251.
Brown, A. S. (1991). A review of the tip-of-the-tongue experience.
Psychological Bulletin, 109, 204–223.
Brown, R. and McNeill, D. (1966). The “tip of the tongue” phenomenon.
Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior, 5, 325–337.
Brumm, A. and Moore, M. W. (2005). Symbolic revolutions and the Australian
archaeological record. Cambridge Archaeological Journal, 15 (2), 157–175.
Brzustowicz, L. M. (1998). Molecular genetic approaches to the study of
language. Human Biology, 70, 325–345.
Bshary, R., Wickler, W., and Fricke, H. (2002). Fish cognition: a primate’s
eye view. Animal Cognition, 5, 1–13.
Buccino, G., Binkofski, F., Fink, G. R. et al. (2001). Action observation acti-
vates premotor and parietal areas in a somatotopic manner: an fMRI
study. European Journal of Neuroscience, 13, 400–404.
Buchan, J. (1976). The Bengalese Finch. Bristol: Isles d’Avon.
References 555
Buchman, A. S., Garron, D. C., Trost-Cardamone, J. E., Wichter, M. D., and
Schwartz, M. (1986). Word deafness: One hundred years later. Journal of
Neurology, Neurosurgery, and Psychiatry, 49, 489–499.
Buchsbaum, B. R., Hickok, G., and Humphries, C. (2001). Role of left poste-
rior superior temporal gyrus in phonological processing for speech
perception and production. Cognitive Science, 25, 663–678.
Buchsbaum, B. R., Baldo, J., D’Esposito, M. et al. (2011). Conduction aphasia,
sensory-motor integration, and phonological short-term memory:
An aggregate analysis of lesion and fMRI data. Brain and Language,
119–128.
Buchsbaum, B.R. and D’Esposito, M. (2008). The search for the phonological
store: From loop to convolution. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 20,
762–778.
Buchsbaum, B. R., Olsen, R. K., Koch, P., and Berman, K. F. (2005). Human
dorsal and ventral auditory streams subserve rehearsal-based and
echoic processes during verbal working memory. Neuron, 48, 687–697.
Bullock, T. H. and Horridge, G. A. (1965). Structure and Function in the Nervous
System of Vertebrates. New York: W. H. Freeman and Co.
Burbridge, T.J., Wang, Y., and Volz, A. J. (2008). Postnatal analysis of the
effect of embryonic knockdown and overexpression of candidate dys-
lexia susceptibility gene homolog Dcdc2 in the rat. Neuroscience, 152,
723–733.
Burgess, P. W. and Wood, R. L. (1990). Neuropsychology of behaviour dis-
orders following brain injury. In R. L. Wood (ed.), Neurobehavioural
Sequelae of Traumatic Brain Injury (pp. 110–133). New York: Taylor and
Francis.
Burki, F. and Kaessmann, H. (2004). Birth and adaptive evolution of a
hominoid gene that supports high neurotransmitter flux. Nature
Genetics, 36, 1061–1063.
Burling, R. (1986). The selective advantage of complex language. Ethology
and Sociobiology, 7 (1), 1–16.
Bush, R. and Mosteller, F. (1951). A mathematical model for simple learn-
ing. Psychological Review, 68, 313–323.
Butler, M. G., Bittel, D.C., Kibiryeva, N., Talebizadeh, Z., and Thompson, T.
(2004). Behavioral differences among subjects with Prader-Willi syn-
drome and type I or type II deletion and maternal disomy. Pediatrics,
113, 565–573.
Butt, M. and King, T.H. (2005). The status of case. In V. Dayal and A. Mahajan
(eds.), Clause Structure in South Asian Languages (pp. 153–198). Berlin:
Springer.
Butterworth, B. (1989). Lexical access in speech production. In W. Marslen-
Wilson (ed.), Lexical Representation and Process (pp. 108–135). Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
(1992). Disorders of phonological encoding. Cognition, 42, 261–286.
Bybee, J. (2001). Phonology and Language Use. Cambridge University Press.
556 References
Bybee, J., and Slobin, D. I. (1982). Rules and schemas in the development
and use of the English past tense. Language, 58, 265–289.
Byrne, R. W. (1997). Machiavellian intelligence. Evolutionary Anthropology, 5,
174–180.
Cabeza, R., Dolcos, F., Prince, S. E. et al. (2003). Attention-related activity
during episodic memory retrieval: a cross-function fMRI study.
Neuropsychologia, 41 (3), 390–399.
Cabeza, R. and Kingstone, A. (eds.) (2006). Handbook of Functional
Neuroimaging of Cognition (2nd edn.). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Cabeza, R. and Nyberg, L. (2000). Imaging cognition II: An empirical review
of 275 PET and fMRI studies. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 12 (1), 1–47.
Calabretta, R., Ferdinando, A. D., Wagner, G. P., and Parisi, D. (2003). What
does it take to evolve behaviorally complex organisms? Biosystems, 69
(2–3), 245–262.
Calabretta, R., Nolfi, S., Parisi, D., and Wagner, G. P. (2000). Duplication of
modules facilitates the evolution of functional specialization. Artificial
Life, 6 (1), 69–84.
Calabria, M., Hernández, M., Martin, C. D., and Costa, A. (2011). When the
tail counts: The advantage of bilingualism through the ex-Gaussian
distribution analysis. Frontiers in Psychology, 2:250. doi: 10.3389/
fpsyg.2011.00250.
Calarco, J. A., Xing, Y., Cáceres, M. et al. (2007). Global analysis of alternative
splicing differences between humans and chimpanzees. Genes and
Development, 21, 2963–2975.
Calderon, R. and Naidu, S. (2000). Further support for the benefits of early
identification and intervention for children with hearing loss. The
Volta Review, 100, 53–84.
Campbell, L. and Poser, W. J. (2008). Language Classification: History and
Method. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Camps, M. and Uriagereka, J. (2006). The Gordian Knot of linguistic fossils.
In J. Rosselló and J. Martı́n (eds.), The Biolinguistic Turn. Issues on Language
and Biology (pp. 34–65). Barcelona: Universitat de Barcelona.
Cangelosi, A. and Parisi, D. (2002). Simulating the Evolution of Language.
Amsterdam: Springer-Verlag.
Cantalupo, C. and Hopkins, W. D. (2001). Asymmetric Broca’s area in great
apes. Nature, 414, 505.
Capitani, E., Laiacona, M., Mahon, B., and Caramazza, A. (2003). What are
the facts of semantic category-specific deficits? A critical review of the
clinical evidence. Cognitive Neuropsychology, 20, 213–261.
Caplan, D., Alpert, N., and Waters, G. (1999). PET studies of syntactic
processing with auditory sentence presentation. NeuroImage, 9,
343–351.
Caplan, D., Alpert, N., Waters, G., and Olivieri, A. (2000). Activation of
Broca’s area by syntactic processing under conditions of concurrent
articulation. Human Brain Mapping, 9, 65–71.
References 557
Caplan, D. and Chomsky, N. (1980). Linguistic perspectives on language
development. In D. Caplan (ed.), Biological Studies of Mental Processes
(pp. 97–105). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Cappelletti, M., Fregni, F., Shapiro, K., Pascual-Leone, A., and Caramazza, A.
(2008). Processing nouns and verbs in the left frontal cortex: A trans-
cranial magnetic stimulation study. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 20,
707–720.
Caprin, C. and Guasti, M. T. (2009). The acquisition of morpho-syntax in
Italian: A cross-sectional study. Applied Psycholinguistics, 30, 23–52.
Caramazza, A., Chialant, D., Capasso, R., and Miceli, G. (2000). Separable
processing of consonants and vowels. Nature, 403, 428–430.
Caramazza, A. and Hillis, A. E. (1990). Where do semantic errors come
from? Cortex, 26, 95–122.
(1991). Lexical organization of nouns and verbs in the brain. Nature, 349,
788–790.
Caramazza, A. and Shelton, J. R. (1998). Domain-specific knowledge sys-
tems in the brain: The animate-inanimate distinction. Journal of
Cognitive Neuroscience, 10, 1–34.
Caramazza, A. and Zurif, E. B. (1976). Dissociation of algorithmic and
heuristic processes in sentence comprehension: Evidence from apha-
sia. Brain and Language, 3, 572–582.
Cardon, L. R. and Bell, J. L. (2001). Association study designs for complex
diseases. Nature Reviews Genetics, 2, 91–99.
Carey, S. (1994). Does learning a language require conceptual change?
Lingua, 92, 143–167.
Carey, S. and Bartlett, E. (1978). Acquiring a single new word. Proceedings of
the Stanford Child Language Conference, 15, 17–29.
Carlson, S. M. and Meltzoff, A. M. (2008). Bilingual experience and execu-
tive functioning in young children. Developmental Science, 11, 282–298.
Carroll, J. (1993). Human Cognitive Abilities: A Survey of Factor-analytic Studies.
Cambridge University Press.
Carroll, J. M. and Tanenhaus, M. (1978). Functional clauses and sentence
segmentation. Journal of Speech and Hearing Research, 21, 793–808.
Carroll, S. B. (2003). Genetics and the making of Homo sapiens. Nature, 422
(6934), 849–857.
(2005a). Evolution at two levels: On genes and form. PLoS Biology, 3 (7,
July): 1159–1166.
(2005b). Endless Forms Most Beautiful. The New Science of Evo-Devo. New York:
Norton and Company.
Carroll, S. E. (2001). Input and Evidence: The Raw Material of Second Language
Acquisition. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Carruthers, P. (2002). The cognitive functions of language. Behavioral and
Brain Sciences, 25, 657–674.
Carruthers, P. and Chamberlain, A. (2000). Evolution and the Human Mind:
Modularity, Language, and Meta-Cognition. Cambridge University Press.
558 References
Published in association with the Hang Seng Centre for Cognitive
Studies University of Sheffield.
Carstairs-McCarthy, A. (1998). Synonymy avoidance, phonology and the
origin of syntax. In J. Hurford, M. Studdert-Kennedy, and C. Knight
(eds.), Approaches to the Evolution of Language. Social and Cognitive Bases
(pp. 279–296). Cambridge University Press.
(1999). The Origins of Complex Language. An Inquiry into the Evolutionary
Beginnings of Sentences, Syllables, and Truth. New York: Oxford University
Press.
Caselli, R. J., Reiman, E. M., Osborne, D. et al. (2004). Longitudinal changes
in cognition and behavior in asymptomatic carriers of APOE e4 allele.
Neurology, 62, 1990–1995.
Cassidy, S. B., Forsythe, M., Heeger, S. et al. (1997). Comparison of pheno-
type between patients with Prader-Willi syndrome due to deletion 15q
and uniparental disomy 15. American Journal of Medical Genetics, 68,
433–440.
Castles, A., Bates, T., and Coltheart, M. (2006). John Marshall and the
developmental dyslexias. Aphasiology, 20, 871–892.
Castles, A. and Coltheart, M. (1993). Varieties of developmental dyslexia.
Cognition, 47, 149–180.
(1996). Cognitive correlates of developmental surface dyslexia: A single
case study. Cognitive Neuropsychology, 13, 25–50.
Castles, A., Coltheart, M., Savage, G., Bates, A., and Reid, L. (1996).
Morphological processing and visual word recognition: Evidence
from acquired dyslexia. Cognitive Neuropsychology, 13, 1041–1057.
Catchpole, C. K. and Slater, P. J. B. (2003). Bird Song: Biological Themes and
Variations: Cambridge University Press.
Cauvet, E., Alves Limissuri, R., Millotte, S., Margules, S., and Christophe, A.
(2010). What 18-month-old French-learning infants know about nouns
and verbs. Paper presented at the XVIIth International Conference on
Infant Studies, Baltimore, MD, April 11–14.
Cauvet, E., Alves Limissuri, R., Millotte, S. et al. (forthcoming). Syntactic
context constrains lexical access in French 18-month-olds. Language
Learning and Development.
Chaline, J. (1994). Une famille peu ordinaire. Du singe a l’homme. Paris: Du
Seuil.
Chang, B. S., Ly, J., Appignani, B. et al. (2005). Reading impairment in the
neural migration disorder of periventricular nodular heterotopia.
Neurology, 64, 799–803.
Chapin, P., Smith, T., and Abrahamson, A. (1972). Two factors in perceptual
segmentation of speech. Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior,
11 (2), 164–173.
Chase, P. G. (1990). Sifflets du Paléolithique moyen? Les implications d’un
coprolithe de coyote actuel. Bulletin de la Societé Préhistorique Française,
87, 165–167.
References 559
Chase, P. G. and Nowell, A. (1998). Taphonomy of a suggested Middle
Paleolithic bone flute from Slovenia. Current Anthropology, 39 (4),
184–194.
Chater, N., Reali, F., and Christiansen, M. (2009). Restrictions on biological
adaptation in language evolution. Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences USA, 106 (4), 1015–1020.
Chen, E., West, W. C., Waters, G., and Caplan, D. (2006). Determinants of
BOLD signal correlates of processing object-extracted relative clauses.
Cortex, 42, 591–604.
Chenery, H. J., Copland, D. A., and Murdoch, B. E. (2002). Complex language
functions and subcortical mechanisms: Evidence from Huntington’s
disease and patients with non-thalamic subcortical lesions.
International Journal of Language and Communication Disorders, 37,
459–474.
Cheney, D. L. and Seyfarth, R. M. (1990). How Monkeys See the World. Inside the
Mind of Another Species. University of Chicago Press.
Cherniak, C. (2005). Innateness and brain-wiring optimization: non-
genomic innateness. In J. Zilhao (ed.), Evolution, Rationality, and
Cognition (pp. 103–112). New York: Routledge.
Cherniak, C., Mikhtarzada, Z., Rodriguez-Esteban, R., and Changizi, K.
(2004). Global optimization of cerebral cortex layout. Proceedings of
the National Academy of the Sciences, 101 (4), 1081–1086.
Ching, Y. P., Qi, Z., and Wang, J. H. (2000). Cloning of three novel neuronal
Cdk5 activator binding proteins. Gene, 242, 285–294.
Cho, T. and Keating, P. (2001). Articulatory strengthening at the onset of
prosodic domains in Korean. Journal of Phonetics, 29, 155–190.
Choi, S. and Gopnik, A. (1995). Early acquisition of verbs in Korean: a
crosslinguistic study. Journal of Child Language, 22 (3), 497–529.
Chomsky, N. (1951/1979). The Morphophonemics of Modern Hebrew. MS,
University of Pennsylvania MA thesis; printed 1979 New York:
Garland Press.
(1955/1975). The Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory. MS, currently available
as PDF document on Internet. Published in part New York: Plenum
Press.
(1956). Three models for the description of language. IRE Transactions on
Information Theory, 2, 113–124.
(1957). Syntactic Structures. The Hague: Mouton. Reprinted 2002, Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
(1959a). A Review of B. F. Skinner, Verbal Behavior. Language, 35, 26–58.
Reprinted with added preface in L.A. Jakobovitz and M. S. Miron (eds.),
Readings in the Psychology of Language (pp. 142–172). Englewood Cliffs
NJ: Prentice-Hall.
(1959b). On certain formal properties of grammars. Information and
Control, 2, 137–167.
(1965). Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
560 References
(1966/2002/2009). Cartesian Linguistics. New York: Harper and Row. 2002:
2nd edition with new introduction by J. McGilvray, Christchurch:
Cybereditions. 2009: 3rd edition with new introduction by
J. McGilvray, Cambridge University Press.
(1972a). Some empirical issues in the theory of transformational gram-
mar. In P. S. Peters (ed.), Goals of Linguistic Theory (pp. 63–130).
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.
(1972b/2006). Language and Mind. Expanded 2nd edition version of 1968
version, New York: Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovich. 3rd edition with new
preface and an additional 2004 chapter “Biolinguistics and the human
capacity” 2006, Cambridge University Press.
(1973). Conditions on transformations. In S. R. Anderson and P. Kiparsky
(eds.), A Festschrift for Morris Halle (pp. 232–286). New York: Holt,
Rinehart and Winston.
(1975). Reflections on Language. New York: Pantheon.
(1976). On the biological basis of language capacities. In R. W. Rieber
(ed.), The Neuropsychology of Language: Essays in Honor of Eric Lenneberg
(pp. 1–24). New York: Plenum Press.
(1980/2005). Rules and Representations. Oxford: Blackwell (1980). The 2005
edition has a new introduction by Norbert Hornstein. New York:
Columbia University Press.
(1981a). Lectures on Government and Binding. Dordrecht: Foris.
(1981b). Principles and parameters in syntactic theory. In N. Hornstein
and D. Lightfoot (eds.), Explanation in Linguistics (pp. 123–146). London:
Longman.
(1986a). Barriers. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(1986b). Knowledge of Language: Its Nature, Origin and Use. New York:
Praeger.
(1991). Some notes on economy of derivation and representation. In
R. Freidin (ed.), Principles and Parameters in Comparative Grammar
(pp. 417–454). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(1993). A minimalist program for linguistic theory. In K. Hale and
S. J. Keyser (eds.), The View from Building 20: Essays in Linguistics in Honor
of Sylvain Bromberger. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(1994). Language and Thought. Wakefield, RI: Moyer Bell.
(1995a). Language and nature. Mind, 104, pp 1–61.
(1995b). The Minimalist Program. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(2000a). New Horizons in the Study of Language and Mind. Foreword by
Neil Smith. Cambridge University Press.
(2000b). Minimalist inquiries: The framework. In R. Martin, D. Michaels,
and J. Uriagereka (eds.), Step by Step: Essays on Minimalist Syntax in Honor
of Howard Lasnik (pp. 89–155). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(2001). Derivation by phase. In M. Kenstowicz (ed.), Ken Hale: A Life in
Language (pp. 1–52). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(2002a). On Language and Nature. Cambridge University Press.
References 561
(2002b). Syntactic Structures. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
(2004). 3 factors in language design. Expanded from talk at LSA conference,
Jan. 9, 2004.
(2005). Three factors in language design. Linguistic Inquiry, 36 (1), 1–22.
(2006b). Language and Mind, 3rd edn. Cambridge University Press.
(2007a). Of minds and language. Biolinguistics, 1, 9–27.
(2007b). The mysteries of nature: How deeply hidden. (Revised) MS for
talk given at Columbia University, New York.
(2007c). Biolinguistic explorations: Design, development, evolution.
International Journal of Philosophical Studies, 15 (1), 1–21.
(2007d). Approaching UG from below. In U. Sauerland and H.-M.
Gaertner (eds.), Interfaces + Recursion + Language?: Chomsky’s Minimalism
and the View from Syntax-semantics (pp. 1–29). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
(2008). On phases. In R. Freidin, C. P. Otero, and M. L. Zubizaretta (eds.),
Foundational Issues in Linguistic Theory: Essays in Honor of Jean-Roger
Vergnaud (pp. 133–166). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(2009). Opening remarks. In M. Piattelli-Palmarini, J. Uriagereka, and
P. Salaburu (eds.), Of Minds and Language: A Dialogue with Noam Chomsky
in the Basque Country (pp. 13–43). Oxford University Press.
Chomsky, N. and Halle, M. (1968). The Sound Pattern of English. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. and Lasnik, H. (1993). The theory of principles and param-
eters. In J. Jacobs, A. van Stechow, W. Sternefeld, and T. Vennemann
(eds.), Syntax: An International Handbook of Contemporary Research
(pp. 506–565). Berlin: de Gruyter.
Chomsky, N. and McGilvray, J. (2012). The Science of Language. Cambridge
University Press.
Chou, H.-H., Hayakawa, T., Diaz, S. et al. (2002). Inactivation of CMP-N-
acetylneuraminic acid hydroxylase occurred prior to brain expansion
during human evolution. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of
the United States of America, 99, 11736–11741.
Choudhary, J. and Grant, S. G. N. (2004), Proteomics in postgenomic neuro-
science: the end of the beginning. Nature Neuroscience, 7, 440–445.
Choudhary, K. K., Schlesewsky, M., Roehm, D., and Bornkessel-Schlesewsky,
I. (2009). The N400 as a correlate of interpretively-relevant linguistic
rules: Evidence from Hindi. Neuropsychologia, 47, 3012–3022.
Choy, J. and Thompson, C. K. (2010). Binding in agrammatic aphasia:
Processing to comprehension. Aphasiology, 24 (5), 551–579.
Christiansen, M. H. and S. Kirby (eds.) (2003a). Language Evolution. New York:
Oxford University Press.
Christiansen, M. H. and Kirby, S. (2003b). Language evolution: Consensus
and controversies. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 7 (7), 300–307.
Christiansen, M. H., Kelly, M. L., Shillcock, R. C., and Greenfield, K. (2010).
Impaired artificial grammar learning in agrammatism. Cognition, 116
(3), 382–393.
562 References
Christoffels, I. K., Formisano, E., and Schiller, N. O. (2007). Neural corre-
lates of verbal feedback processing: An fMRI study employing overt
speech. Human Brain Mapping, 28 (9), 868–879.
Christophe, A., Gout, A., Peperkamp, S., and Morgan, J. L. (2003).
Discovering words in the continuous speech stream: The role of pro-
sody. Journal of Phonetics, 31, 585–598.
Christophe, A., Guasti, M. T., Nespor, M., Dupoux, E., and van
Ooyen, B. (1997). Reflections on phonological bootstrapping: Its role
for lexical and syntactic acquisition. Language and Cognitive Processes,
12, 585–612.
Christophe, A., Millotte, S., Bernal, S., and Lidz, J. (2008). Bootstrapping
lexical and syntactic acquisition. Language and Speech, 51, 61–75.
Christophe, A., Peperkamp, S., Pallier, C., Block, E., and Mehler, J. (2004).
Phonological phrase boundaries constrain lexical access: I. Adult data.
Journal of Memory and Language, 51, 523–547.
Cinque, G. (1999). Adverbs and Functional Heads: A Cross-Linguistic Perspective.
New York: Oxford University Press.
(ed.) (2002). Functional Structure in DP and IP: The Cartography of Syntactic
Structures, Vol. I. New York: Oxford University Press.
Cinque, G. and R. S. Kayne (eds.) (2005). The Oxford Handbook of Comparative
Syntax. New York: Oxford University Press.
Cinque, G. and Rizzi, L. (2010). The cartography of syntactic structures. In
B. Heine and H. Narrog (eds.), The Oxford Handbook of Linguistic Analysis
(pp. 51–65). New York: Oxford University Press.
Claasen, C. (1998). Shells. Cambridge University Press.
Claessens, L. P. A. M., O’Connor, P. M., and Unwin, D. M. (2009). Respiratory
evolution facilitated the origin of pterosaur flight and aerial gigan-
tism. PLoS One 4/2: e4497. doi:10/1371/journal.pone.0004497.
Clahsen, H. (1989). The grammatical characterization of developmental
dysphasia. Linguistics, 27, 897–920.
(1991). Constraints on parameter setting: A grammatical analysis of
some acquisition stages in German child language. Language
Acquisition, 1, 361–391.
Clark, H. H. and Brennan, S. E. (1991). Grounding in communication. In
L. B. Resnick, J. M. Levine, and J. S. D. Teasley (eds.), Perspectives on
Socially Shared Cognition (pp. 127–149). Washington, DC: American
Psychological Association.
Clark, R. (1992). The selection of syntactic knowledge. Language Acquisition,
2, 83–149.
Clark, S. and Gronlund, S. (1996). Global matching models of recognition
memory: How the models match the data. Psychonomic Bulletin and
Review, 3 (1), 37–60.
Clark-Carter, D. (1997). The account taken of statistical power in research
published in the British Journal of Psychology. British Journal of
Psychology, 88, 71–83.
References 563
Clarke, E., Reichard, U., and Zuberbühler, K. (2006). The syntax and mean-
ing of wild gibbon songs. PLoS One, 1, e73.
Clay, Z., Pika, S., Gruber, T., and Zuberbühler, K. (2011). Female bonobos
use copulation calls as social signals. Biology Letters, 7, 513–516.
Clements, G. N. and Hume, E. V. (1995). The internal organization of speech
sounds. In J. A. Goldsmith (ed.), The Handbook of Phonological Theory
(pp. 245–306). Cambridge, MA: Blackwell.
Cohen, J. (1962). The statistical power of abnormal social psychological
research: A review. Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology, 65, 145–153.
(1988). Statistical Power Analysis for the Behavioral Sciences, 2nd edn.
Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
(1992). Statistical power analysis. Current Directions in Psychological Science,
1, 98–101.
Cohen, L., Dehaene, S., Naccache, L. et al. (2000). The visual word form
area: Spatial and temporal characterization of an initial stage of
reading in normal subjects and posterior split-brain patients. Brain,
123, 291–307.
Cohen-Shalev, S. and Friedmann, N. (2011). A rose is a rose but a daffodil is
a flower: Prototypicallity and lexical retrieval in deep dyslexia [in
Hebrew]. Language and Brain, 10, 107–137.
Collard, M. (2002). Grades and transitions in human evolution. In
T. Crow (ed.), The Speciation of Modern Homo Sapiens (pp. 61–100).
Oxford University Press.
Collingridge, G. L. and Isaac, J.T.R. (2003). Functional roles of protein inter-
actions with AMPA and kainate receptors. Neuroscience Research 47: 3–15.
Collins, A. M. and Quillian, M. R. (1969). Retrieval time from semantic
memory. Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior, 8 (2), 240–247.
Coltheart, M. (1981). Disorders of reading and their implications for mod-
els of normal reading. Visible Language, 15, 245–286.
(1999). Modularity and cognition. Trends in Cognitive Science, 3: 115–120.
(2004). Are there lexicons? The Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology
A, 57, 1153–1171.
Coltheart, M. and Byng, S. (1989). A treatment for surface dyslexia. In
X. Seron (ed.), Cognitive Approaches in Neuropsychological Rehabilitation
(pp. 159–174). London: Erlbaum.
Coltheart, M. and Funnell, E. (1987). Reading and writing: One lexicon or
two? In A. Allport, D. Mackay, W. Prinz, and E. Sheerer (eds.), Language
Perception and Production (pp. 313–339). London: Academic Press.
Coltheart, M., Masterson, J., Byng, S., Prior, M., and Riddoch, J. (1983).
Surface dyslexia. Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology A, 35,
469–495.
Colzato, L. S., Bajo, M. T., van den Wildenberg, W. et al. (2008). How does
bilingualism improve executive control? A comparison of active and
reactive inhibition mechanisms. Journal of Experimental Psychology:
Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 34 (2), 302–312.
564 References
Comrie, B. (1989). Linguistic Universals and Language Typology (2nd edn.).
Oxford: Blackwell.
Conard, N.J., Malina, M., and Münzel, S.C. (2009). New flutes document the
earliestmusicaltraditioninsouthwesternGermany.Nature,460,737–740.
Constable, R. T., Pugh, K. R., Berroya, E. et al. (2004). Sentence complexity
and input modality effects in sentence comprehension: an fMRI study.
Neuroimage, 22, 11–21.
Conti-Ramsden, G. and Jones, M. (1997). Verb use in specific language impair-
ment. Journal of Speech, Language, and Hearing Research, 40, 1298–1313.
Conway Morris, S. (2003). Life’s Solution: Inevitable Humans in a Lonely Universe.
Cambridge University Press.
Cook, V. and Newson, M. (1996). Chomsky’s Universal Grammar: An
Introduction. Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell.
Cooke, A., Zurif, E. B., DeVita, C. et al. (2001). Neural basis for sentence
comprehension: Grammatical and short-term memory components.
Human Brain Mapping, 15, 80–94.
Coolidge, F. L. and Wynn, T. (2004). A cognitive and neuropsychological
perspective on the Châtelperronian. Journal of Anthropological Research,
60, 55–73.
(2005). Working memory, its executive functions, and the emergence of
modern thinking. Cambridge Archaeological Journal, (15) 1, 5–26.
(2009). The Rise of Homo Sapiens: The Evolution of Modern Thinking. Malden,
MA: Wiley-Blackwell.
Corballis, M. C. and Morgan, M. J. (1978). On the biological basis of human
laterality: I. Evidence for a maturational left-right gradient. Behavioral
and Brain Sciences, 2, 261–269.
Cosmides, L. and Tooby, J. (1994). Origins of domain specificity: The evo-
lution of functional organization. In L. A. Hirschfeld and S. A. Gelman
(eds.), Mapping the Mind: Domain Specificity in Cognition and Culture
(pp. 85–116). Cambridge University Press.
Costa, A. and Caramazza, A. (1999). Is lexical selection in bilingual speech
production language-specific? Further evidence from Spanish-English
and English-Spanish bilinguals. Bilingualism: Language and Cognition,
2 (3), 231–244.
Costa, A., Hernández, M., and Sebastián-Gallés, N. (2008). Bilingualism aids
conflict resolution: Evidence from the ANT task. Cognition, 106, 59–86.
Costa, A., Hernández, M., Costa-Faidella, J., and Sebastián-Gallés, N. (2009).
On the bilingual advantage in conflict processing: Now you see it, now
you don’t. Cognition, 113, 135–149.
Costa, A., Miozzo, M., and Caramazza, A. (1999). Lexical selection in bilin-
guals: Do words in the bilingual’s two lexicons compete for selection?
Journal of Memory and Language, 41, 365–397.
Costa, A., Santesteban, M., and Caño, A. (2005). On the facilitatory effects of
cognate words in bilingual speech production. Brain and Language, 94,
94–103.
References 565
Costa, A., Santesteban, M., and Ivanova, I. (2006). How do highly-proficient
bilinguals control their lexicalization process? Inhibitory and
language-specific selection mechanisms are both functional. Journal
of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory and Cognition, 32,
1057–1074.
Costa, A., Sebastian-Gallés, N., Miozzo, M., and Caramazza, A. (1999). The
gender congruity effect: Evidence from Spanish and Catalan. Language
and Cognitive Processes, 14, 381–391.
Coulson, S., King, J. W., and Kutas, M. (1998). Expect the unexpected: Event-
related brain response to morphosyntactic violations. Language and
Cognitive Processes, 13, 21–58.
Couto, J. M., Gomez, L., Wigg, K. et al. (2008). The KIAA0319-like (KIAA0319L)
Gene on chromosome 1p34 as a candidate for reading disabilities.
Journal of Neurogenetics, 22, 295–313.
Cowan, N. (1995). Attention and Memory: An Integrated Framework. New York:
Oxford Unviersity Press.
(2001). The magical number 4 in short-term memory: a reconsidera-
tion of mental storage capacity. Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 24,
87–185.
(2005). Attention and Memory: An Integrated Framework. Oxford University
Press.
(2006). Within fluid cognition: Fluid processing and fluid storage?
Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 29 (2), 129–130.
Cowart, W. (1997). Experimental Syntax: Applying Objective Methods to Sentence
Judgments. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
Cox, J., Jackson, A. P., Bond, J., and Woods, C. G. (2006). What primary
microcephaly can tell us about brain growth. Trends in Molecular
Medicine, 12, 358–366.
Crain, S. (1991). Language acquisition in the absence of experience.
Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 14, 597–650.
Crain, S. and Nakayama, M. (1987). Structure dependence in grammar
formation. Language, 63, 522–543.
Crockford, C., Wittig, R. M., Mundry, R., and Zuberbühler, K. (2012). Wild
chimpanzees inform ignorant group members of danger. Current
Biology, 22.
Croft, W. (2003). Typology and Universals, 2nd edn. Cambridge University
Press.
Cross, I., Zubrow, E. B. W., and Cowan, F. (2002). Musical behaviours and
the archaeological record: A preliminary study. In J. Mathieu (ed.),
Experimental Archaeology. Replicating Past Object, Behaviors, and Processes
(pp. 25–34). Oxford: Archaeopress.
Crosson, B. (1992). Subcortical Functions in Language and Memory. New York:
Guilford Press.
Csépe, V., Karmos, G., and Molnár, M. (1987). Evoked potential correlates of
stimulus deviance during wakefulness and sleep in cat – animal model
566 References
of mismatch negativity. Electroencephalography and Clinical
Neurophysiology, 66 (6), 571–578.
Cudworth, Ralph. (1688/1737/1995). A Treatise on Eternal and Immutable
Morality, Sarah Hutton (ed.) Cambridge University Press.
Culbertson, J. and Gross, J. (2009). Are linguists better subjects? British
Journal for the Philosophy of Science, 60, 721–736.
Culicover, P. W. and Jackendoff, R. (2010). Quantitative methods alone are
not enough: Response to Gibson and Fedorenko. Trends in Cognitive
Sciences, 14 (6), 234–235.
Cummings, J. L. (1993). Frontal-subcortical circuits and human behavior.
Archives of Neurology, 50, 873–880.
Cunningham, D. J. (1892). Contribution to the Surface Anatomy of the Cerebral
Hemispheres (Cunningham Memoirs). Dublin: Royal Irish Academy of
Science.
Curtin, S., Mintz, T. H., and Christiansen, M. H. (2005). Stress changes the
representational landscape: Evidence from word segmentation.
Cognition, 96, 233–262.
Curtiss, S. (1977). Genie: A Psycholinguistic Study of a Modern-day “Wild Child”.
New York: Academic Press.
(in press). Revisiting modularity: Using language as a window to the
mind. In M. Piattelli-Palmarini and R. C. Berwick (eds.), Rich Languages
from Poor Inputs. Oxford University Press.
Cutler, A. and Carter, D. M. (1987). The predominance of strong initial
syllables in the English vocabulary. Computer Speech and Language, 2,
133–142.
Cynx, J. (1990). Experimental determination of a unit of song production in
the zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata). Journal of Comparative Psychology,
104 (1), 3–10.
D’Ausilio, A., Pulvermüller, F., Salmas, P. et al. (2009). The motor somato-
topy of speech perception. Current Biology, 19, 381–385.
D’Esposito, M., Aguirre, G.K., Zarahn, E. et al. (1998). Functional MRI studies of
spatial and nonspatial working memory. Cognitive Brain Research, 7, 1–13.
d’Errico, F. (1995). A new model and its implications for the origins of
writing: The La Marche antler revisited. Cambridge Archaeological
Journal, 5 (2), 163–302.
(1999). Palaeolithic origins of artificial memory systems: An evolution-
ary perspective. In C. Renfrew and C. Scarre (eds.), Cognition and
Material Culture: The Archaeology of Symbolic Storage (pp. 19–50).
Cambridge: McDonald Institute for Archaeological Research.
(2003). The invisible frontier: A multispecies model for the origin of
behavioral modernity. Evolutionary Anthropology, 12, 188–202.
(2008). The archaeology of language origin. In A. D. M. Smith, K. Smith,
and R. Ferrer i Cancho (eds.), The Evolution of Language. Proceedings of the
7th International Conference (EVOLANG 7) (pp. 413–414). Singapore: World
Scientific Publishing.
References 567
(2009). The archaeology of early religious practices: A plea for a
hypothesis-testing approach. In C. Renfrew and I. Morley (eds.),
Becoming Human. Innovation in Prehistoric Material and Spiritual Culture
(pp. 104–122). New York: Cambridge University Press.
d’Errico, F. and Henshilwood, C. S. (eds.) (2011). Homo Symbolicus. The Dawn of
Language, Imagination and Spirituality. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
d’Errico, F., Henshilwood, C., Lawson, G. et al. (2003). Archeological evidence
for the emergence of language, symbolism, and music: An alternative
multidisciplinary perspective. Journal of World Prehistory, 17 (1), 1–70.
d’Errico, F., Henshilwood, C., Vanhaeren, M., and van Niekerk, K. (2005).
Nassarius kraussianus shell beads from Blombos Cave: Evidence for
symbolic behaviour in the Middle Stone Age. Journal of Human
Evolution, 48, 3–24.
d’Errico, F., Villa, P., Pinto Llona, A. C., and Ruiz Idarraga, R. (1998a). A
Middle Palaeolithic origin of music? Using cave-bear bone accumula-
tions to assess the Divje Babe I bone “flute.” Antiquity, 72, 65–79.
d’Errico, F., Zilhão, J., Julien, M., Baffier, D., and Pelegrin, J. (1998b).
Neandertal acculturation in Western Europe? A critical review of the
evidence and its interpretation. Current Anthropology, 39 (2)
Supplement: S1-S22.
Dabelsteen, T. and Pedersen, S. B. (1990). Song and information about
aggressive responses of blackbirds, Turdus merula: evidence from
interactive playback experiments with territory owners. Animal
Behaviour, 40 (6), 1158–1168.
Da
˛browska, E. (2010). Naı̈ve v. expert intuitions: An empirical study of
acceptability judgments. The Linguistic Review, 27 (1), 1–23.
Daelemans, W., Gillis, S., and Durieux, G. (1994). The acquisition of stress:
A data-oriented approach. Association for Computational Linguistics, 20 (3),
421–451.
Damasio, A. R. (1992). Aphasia. New England Journal of Medicine, 326, 531–539.
(1994). Descartes’ Error: Emotion, Reason, and the Human Brain. New York:
Putnam.
Damasio, A. R., Damasio, H., Tranel, D., and Brandt, J. P. (1990). Neural
regionalization of knowledge access: Preliminary evidence. Cold
Spring Harbor Symposia on Quantitative Biology, 55, 1039–1047.
Damasio, A. R. and Tranel, D. (1993). Nouns and verbs are retrieved with
differently distributed neural systems. Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences, 90, 4957–4960.
Damasio, H. (1991). Neuroanatomical correlates of the aphasias. In
M. Sarno (ed.), Acquired Aphasia (pp. 45–71). San Diego, CA: Academic
Press.
Damasio, H. and Damasio, A. R. (1980). The anatomical basis of conduction
aphasia. Brain, 103, 337–350.
Damasio, H., Grabowksi, T. J., Tranel, D., Hichwa, R. D., and Damasio, A. R.
(1996). A neural basis for lexical retrieval. Nature, 380, 499–505.
568 References
Daniele, A., Giustolisi, L., Silveri, M. C., Colosimo, C., and Gainotti, G.
(1994). Evidence for a possible neuroanatomical basis for lexical pro-
cessing of nouns and verbs. Neuropsychologia, 32, 1325–1341.
Daniele, A., Silveri, M. C., Giustolisi, L., and Gainotti, C. (1993). Category-
specific deficits for grammatical classes of words: Evidence for possible
anatomical correlates. Italian Journal of Neurological Science, 14, 87–94.
Daniels, P. T. and Bright, W. (eds.) (1996). The World’s Writing Systems. Oxford
University Press.
Darwin, C. (1859). On the Origin of Species. London: John Murray. Reprinted
1964 Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
(1871). The Descent of Man. London: J Murray.
Davidson, D. (1967). The logical form of action sentences. In N. Reschler
(ed.), The Logic of Decision and Action (pp. 81–95). University of Pittsburgh
Press.
Davidson, E. H. (1986). Gene Activity in Early Development. Orlando, FL:
Academic Press.
(2006). The Regulatory Genome: Gene Regulatory Networks in Development and
Evolution. London: Elsevier.
(2010). Emerging properties of animal gene regulatory networks. Nature,
468, (7326), 911–920.
Davidson, I. (2003). The archaeological evidence of language origins: States
of art. In M. Christiansen and S. Kirby (eds.), Language Evolution
(pp. 140–157). New York: Oxford University Press.
Davis, C., Kleinman, J. T., Newhart, M. et al. (2008). Speech and language
functions that require a functioning Broca’s area. Brain and Language,
105, 50–58.
Day, E. J. (1932). The development of language in twins: I. A comparison of
twins and single children. Child Development, 3 (3), 179–199.
de Boer, B. (2001). The Origins of Vowel Systems. Oxford University Press.
de Diego Balaguer, R., Rodriguez-Fornells, A., and Rotte, M. (2006). Neural
circuits subserving the retrieval of stems and grammatical features in
regular and irregular verbs. Human Brain Mapping, 27, 874–888.
De Houwer, A. (1995). Bilingual language acquisition. In P. Fletcher and
B. MacWhinney (eds.), The Handbook of Child Language (pp. 219–250).
Oxford: Blackwell.
de Lint, V. and Wexler, K. (2011). Dutch children speak Dutch, not Arabic.
Talk presented at GALA 2011.
De Roeck, A., Johnson, R., King, M. et al. (1982). A myth about centre-
embedding. Lingua, 58, 327–340.
de Swart, P. (2007). Cross-linguistic Variation in Object Marking. Utrecht:
Netherlands Graduate School of Linguistics (LOT).
de Villiers, J. (1995). Empty categories and complex sentences: The case of
wh-questions. In P. Fletcher and B. MacWhinney (eds.), Handbook of
Child Language (pp. 508–540). Oxford: Blackwell.
de Waal, F. (1995). Bonobo sex and society. Scientific American, 272 (3), 82–88.
References 569
de Zubicaray, G. I., McMahon, K. L., Eastburn, M. M., and Wilson, S. J. (2002).
Orthographic/phonological facilitation of naming responses in the
picture-word task: An event-related fMRI study using overt vocal
responding. NeuroImage, 16, 1084–1093.
de Zubicaray, G. I., Wilson, S. J., McMahon, K. L., and Muthiah, S. (2001). The
semantic interference effect in the picture-word paradigm: An event-
related fMRI study employing overt responses. Human Brain Mapping,
14, 218–227.
Deacon, T. W. (1990a). Fallacies of progression in theories of brain-size
evolution. International Journal of Primatology, 11, 193–236.
(1990b). Problems of ontogeny and phylogeny in brain-size evolution.
International Journal of Primatology, 11, 237–282.
(1997). The Symbolic Species: The Co-evolution of Language and the Brain. New
York: W.W. Norton and Company.
(2000a). Heterochrony in brain evolution. Cellular versus morphological
analyses. In S. T. Parker, J. Langer, and M. L. McKinney (eds.), Biology,
Brains, and Behavior. The Evolution of Human Development (pp. 41–88).
Santa Fe, NM: School of American Research Press.
(2000b). Evolutionary perspectives on language and brain plasticity.
Journal of Communication Disorders, 33, 273–291.
(2010). Colloquium Paper: A role for relaxed selection in the evolution of
the language capacity. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 107
(Supplement 2), 9000–9006.
Dean, C., Scholl, F. G., and Choih, J. (2003). Neurexin mediates the assem-
bly of presynaptic terminals. Nature Neuroscience, 6, 708–716.
Deane, P. (1991). Limits to attention: A cognitive theory of island phenom-
ena. Cognitive Linguistics, 2 (1), 1–63.
De Bleser, R. (1989). Neurology: Recent contributions on aphasia [Trans, of
C. Wernicke, Nervenheilkunde: Die neueren Arbeiten über Aphasie]. Cognitive
Neuropsychology, 6, 547–569.
Dediu, D. and Ladd, D. R. (2007). Linguistic tone is related to the population
frequency of the adaptive haplogroups of two brain size genes, ASPM
and Microcephalin. PNAS, 104 (26), 10944–10949.
DeFries, J. C., Fulker, D. W., and Labuda, M. C. (1987). Evidence for a genetic
aetiology in reading disability of twins. Nature, 329, 537–539.
Dehaene-Lambertz, G. (1997). Electrophysiological correlates of categori-
cal phoneme perception in adults. Neuroreport, 8 (4), 919–924.
Dehaene-Lambertz, G., Dupoux, E., and Gout, A. (2000). Electrophysiological
correlates of phonological processing: A cross-linguistic study. Journal of
Cognitive Neuroscience, 12 (4), 635–647.
Dehaene, S., Cohen, L., Sigman, M., and Vinckier, F. (2005). The neural code
for written words: a proposal. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 9, 335–341.
Dehaene, S., Dupoux, E., Mehler, J. et al. (1997). Anatomical variability in
the cortical representation of first and second languages. NeuroReport,
17, 3809–3815.
570 References
Dehaene, S., Izard, V., Lemer, C., and Pica, P. (2007). Quels sont les liens
entre arithmétique et langage? Une étude en Amazonie. In J. Bricmont
and J. J. Franck (eds.), Chomsky (pp. 188–196). Paris: Cahiers de L’Herne.
Dehaene, S., Izard, V., Pica, P., and Spelke, E. (2006). Core knowledge of
geometry in an Amazonian indigene group. Science, 311 (5759), 381–384.
DeKeyser, R. M. (2000). The robustness of critical period effects in second
language acquisition. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 22, 499–533.
DeKeyser, R. M., Alfi-Shabtay, I., and Ravid, D. (2010). Cross-linguistic evi-
dence for the nature of age effects in second language acquisition.
Applied Psycholinguistics, 31, 413–438.
DeKeyser, R. M. and Larson-Hall, J. (2005). What does the critical period
really mean? In J. F. Kroll and A. de Groot (eds.), Handbook of Bilingualism:
Psycholinguistic Approaches (pp. 88–108). New York: Oxford University
Press.
DeLeon, J., Gottesman, R. F., and Kleinman, J. T. (2007). Neural regions
essential for distinct cognitive processes underlying picture naming.
Brain, 130, 1408–1422.
Dell, G. S. (1986). A spreading-activation theory of retrieval in sentence
production. Psychological Review, 93, 283–321.
(1988). The retrieval of phonological forms in production: Tests of pre-
dictions from a connectionist model. Journal of Memory and Language,
27, 124–142.
den Dikken, M. (2001). “Pluringulars,” pronouns and quirky agreement.
The Linguistic Review, 18, 19–41.
den Dikken, M., Bernstein, J., Tortora, C., and Zanuttini, R. (2007). Data and
grammar: means and individuals. Theoretical Linguistics, 33 (3), 335–352.
Denenberg, V. H. (1981). Hemispheric laterality in animals and the effects
of early experience. Behavioral and Brain Sciences, (4), 1–49.
Dennett, D. C. (1995). Darwin’s Dangerous Idea. New York: Simon and Schuster.
(1996). Kinds of Minds. Toward an Understanding of Consciousness. New York:
Basic Books.
Derrfuss, J., Brass, M., and von Cramon, D. Y. (2004). Cognitive control in
the posterior frontolateral cortex: Evidence from common activations
in task coordination, interference control, and working memory.
Neuroimage, 23, 604–612.
Desai, R., Conant, L. L., Waldron, E., and Binder, J. R. (2006). fMRI of past
tense processing: The effects of phological complexity and task diffi-
culty. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 18, 278–297.
Descartes, R. (1637). Discourse on the Method. In Descartes (1984–5).
(1984–5). The Philosophical Writings of Descartes (Volumes I and II). Tr.
J. Cottingham, R. Stoothoff, and D. Murdoch. Cambridge University
Press.
(1991). The Philosophical Writings of Descartes (Volume III, The
Correspondence). Trans. J. Cottingham, R. Stoothoff, D. Murdoch, and
A. Kenny. Cambridge University Press.
References 571
Devitt, M. (2006). Intuitions in linguistics. British Journal for the Philosophy of
Science, 57, 481–513.
(2010). Linguistic intuitions revisited. British Journal for the Philosophy of
Science, 61, 833–865.
Devlin, J. T., Jamison, H. L., Matthews, P. M., and Gonnerman, L. M. (2004).
Morphology and the internal structure of words. Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences USA, 101, 14984–14988.
Di Paolo, E. A. (1999). A little more than kind and less than kin: The
unwarranted use of kin selection in spatial models of communication.
ECAL 1999, 504–513.
Di Paolo, E. A., Noble, J., and Bullock, S. (2000). Simulation models as
opaque thought experiments. Seventh International Conference on
Artificial Life (pp. 497–506). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Di Pellegrino, G., Fadiga, L., Fogassi, L., Gallese, V., and Rizzolatti, G. (1992).
Understanding motor events: a neurophysiological study. Experimental
Brain Research, 91, 176–180.
Di Sciullo, A. M. (2010). The biolinguistics network. Biolinguistics, 4 (1),
149–158.
Di Sciullo, A. M. and C. Boeckx (eds.) (2011). The Biolinguistic Enterprise: New
Perspectives on the Evolution and Nature of the Human Language Faculty.
Oxford University Press.
Di Sciullo, A. M., Piattelli-Palmarini, M., Wexler, K. et al. (2010). The bio-
logical nature of human language. Biolinguistics 4 (1), 4–34.
Diamond, A. (2002). Normal development of prefrontal cortex from birth
to young adulthood: Cognitive functions, anatomy, and biochemistry.
In D. T. Stuss and R. T. Knight (eds.), Principles of Frontal Lobe Function
(pp. 466–503). London: Oxford University Press.
Diamond, J. M. (1992). The Third Chimpanzee: The Evolution and Future of the
Human Animal (1st edn.). New York: HarperCollins.
Dibbets, P., Bakker, K., and Jolles, J. (2006). Functional MRI of task switching in
children with Specific Language Impairment (SLI). Neurocase, 12, 71–79.
Dibble, H. L. and Bar-Yosef, O. (1995). The Definition and Interpretation of
Levallois Technology. Madison: Prehistory Press.
Dicicco-Bloom, E., Lu, N., Pintar, J. E., and Zhang, J. (1998). The PACAP
ligand/receptor system regulates cerebral cortical neurogenesis.
Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, 865, 274–289.
Dickey, M. W., Choy, J. J., and Thompson, C. K. (2007). Real-time compre-
hension of wh-movement in aphasia: Evidence from eyetracking
while listening. Brain and Language, 100, 1–22.
Dickey, M. W. and Thompson, C. K. (2009). Automatic processing of wh-
and NP-movement in agrammatic aphasia: Evidence from eyetrack-
ing. Journal of Neurolinguistics, 22 (6), 563–583.
Diesch, E. and Luce, T. (2000). Topographic and temporal indices of vowel
spectral envelope extraction in the human auditory cortex. Journal of
Cognitive Neuroscience, 12 (5), 878–893.
572 References
Diesch, E., Eulitz, C., Hampson, S., and Ross, B. (1996). The neurotopogra-
phy of vowels as mirrored by evoked magnetic field measurements.
Brain and Language, 53 (2), 143–168.
Dillon, B., Chow, W. Y., Wagers, M. et al. (2010). The structure sensitivity of
memory access: evidence from Mandarin Chinese. Talk given at CUNY
Sentence Processing Conference 23, March 19–21, New York.
Dillon, B., Mishler, A., Sloggett, S., and Phillips, C. (submitted). Contrasting
interference profiles for agreement and anaphora: Experimental and
modeling evidence.
Dixon, R. M. W. (1997). The Rise and Fall of Languages. Cambridge University
Press.
Do Carmo Avides, M. and Glover, D. M. (1999). Abnormal spindle protein,
Asp, and the integrity of mitotic centrosomal microtubule organizing
centers. Science, 283, 1733–1735.
Dobyns, W. B. (2002). Primary microcephaly: New approaches for an old
disorder. American Journal of Human Genetics, 112, 315–317.
Dockrell, J. E., Messer, D., George, R., and Wilson G. (1998). Children with
word finding difficulties: prevalence, presentation and naming prob-
lems. International Journal of Language and Communication Disorders,
44 445–454.
Dolk, H. (1991). The predictive value of microcephaly during the first year
of life for mental retardation at 7 years. Developmental Medicine and Child
Neurology, 33, 974–983.
Donald, M. (1991). Origins of the Modern Mind. Three Stages in the Evolution of
Culture and Cognition. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Donaldson. M. C., Lachmann, M., and Bergstrom, C. T. (2007). The evolution
of functionally referential meaning in a structured world. Journal of
Theoretical Biology, 246, 225–33.
Dorus, S., Vallender, E. J., Evans, P. D. et al. (2004). Accelerated evolu-
tion of nervous system genes in the origin of Homo sapiens. Cell,
119, 1027–1040.
Dosher, B. A. (1976). The retrieval of sentences from memory: A speed-
accuracy study. Cognitive Psychology, 8 (3), 291–310.
(1979). Empirical approaches to information processing: Speed-accuracy
tradeoff or reaction time. Acta Psychologica, 43, 347–359.
(1981). The effect of delay and interference: A speed-accuracy study.
Cognitive Psychology, 13, 551–582.
(1982). Effect of sentence size and network distance on retrieval speed.
Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory and Cognition, 8,
173–207.
(1984). Degree of learning and retrieval speed: Study time and multiple
exposures. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory and
Cognition, 10, 541–574.
Dosher, B. A. and Ma, J. -J. (1998). Output loss or rehearsal loop? output-time
versus pronunciation-time limits in immediate recall for forgetting
References 573
matched materials. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory,
and Cognition, 24, 316–335.
Dosher, B. A. and McElree, B. (2003). Memory search: Retrieval processes in
short-term and long-term recognition. In J. H. Byrne (ed.), Learning and
Memory (pp. 373–379). New York: Gale Group.
Dotan, D. and Friedmann, N. (2007). The three bears and four flies:
Phonological and semantic errors – dissociation between words and
numbers [in Hebrew]. Language and Brain, 6, 3–17.
(2010). Words and numbers in the phonological output buffer. Procedia
Social and Behavioral Sciences, 6, 82–83.
Douglas, R. M. and Martin, K. (1998). Neocortex. In G. M. Shepherd (ed.), The
Synaptic Organization of the Brain, 4th edn. (pp. 459–509). New York:
Oxford University Press.
Doupe, A. and Kuhl, P. K. (1999). Birdsong and human speech: Common
themes and mechanisms. Annual Review of Neuroscience, 22, 567–631.
Dowty, D. R. (1979). Word Meaning and Montague Grammar. Dordrecht:
Reidel.
Doya, K. and Sejnowski, T. J. (1995). A Novel Reinforcement Model of Birdsong
Vocalization Learning.
Drenhaus, H., beim Graben, P., Saddy, D., and Frisch, S. (2006). Diagnosis
and repair of negative polarity constructions in the light of symbolic
resonance analysis. Brain and Language, 96 (3), 255–268.
Dresher, E. (1999). Charting the learning path: Cues to parameter setting.
Linguistic Inquiry, 30, 27–67.
Dricot, L., Sorger, B., Schiltz, C., Goebel, R., and Rossion, B. (2008). Evidence
for individual face discrimination in non-face selective areas of the
visual cortex in acquired prosopagnosia. Behavioral Neurology 19, 75–79.
Dronkers, N. F. and Baldo, J. (2009). Language: Aphasia. In L. R. Squire (ed.),
Encyclopedia of Neuroscience (pp. 313–318). Oxford: Academic Press.
Dronkers, N. F., Wilkins, D. P., Van Valin, R. D., Jr. et al. (2004). Lesion
analysis of the brain areas involved in language comprehension.
Cognition, 92, (1–2), 145–177.
Druks, J. (2006). Morpho-syntactic and morpho-phonological deficits in the
production of regularly and irregularly inflected verbs. Aphasiology, 20,
993–1017.
Duboule, D. and Wilkins, A. S. (1998). The evolution of “bricolage.” Trends
Genet, 14 (2), 54–59.
DuBrul, E. L. (1977). Origins of speech apparatus and its reconstruction
from fossils. Brain and Language, 4, 365–381.
Duffy, J. R. (2005). Motor Speech Disorders. St Louis, MS: Elsevier Mosby.
Dunbar, R. (1993.) Coevolution of neocortex size, group size and language
in humans. Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 16 (4), 681–735.
(1998). Theory of mind and the evolution of language. In J. R. Hurford,
M. Studdert-Kennedy, and C. Knight (eds), Approaches to the Evolution of
Language (pp. 92–110). Cambridge University Press.
574 References
Dunbar, R., Knight, C., and Power, C. (eds.) (1999). The Evolution of Culture. An
Interdisciplinary View. Edinburgh University Press.
Durand, C. M., Betancur, C., Boeckers, T. M. et al. (2007). Mutations in the
gene encoding the synaptic scaffolding protein SHANK3 are associated
with autism spectrum disorders. Nature Genetics, 39, 25–27.
Ebbesson, S. O. E. (1980). The Parcellation Theory and its relation to
interspecific variability in brain organization, evolutionary and
ontogenetic development and neuronal plasticity. Cell and Tissue
Research, 213, 179–212.
Eberhard, K. (1997). The marked effect of number on subject-verb agree-
ment. Journal of Memory and Language, 36, 147–164.
Eberhard, K. M., Cutting, J. C., and Bock, K. (2005). Making sense of syntax:
Number agreement in sentence production. Psychological Review, 112,
521–559.
Ebersberger, I., Metzler, D., Schwarz, C., and Paabo, S. (2002). Genomewide
comparison of DNA sequences between humans and chimpanzees.
American Journal Human Genetics, 70 (6), 1490–1497.
Echelard, Y., Epstein, D. J., St-Jacques, B. et al. (1993). Sonic hedgehog, a
member of a family of putative signaling molecules, is implicated in
the regulation of CNS polarity. Cell, 75, 1417–1430.
Echols, C. H., Crowhurst, M. J., and Childers, J. B. (1997). Perception of
rythmic units in speech by infants and adults. Journal of Memory and
Language, 36, 202–225.
Eckardt, W. and Zuberbühler, K. (2004). Cooperation and competition in
two forest monkeys. Behavioral Ecology, 15, 400–411.
Edelman, S. and Christiansen, M. (2003). How seriously should we take
minimalist syntax? Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 7, 60–61.
Edwards, E., Nagarajan, S. S., Dalal, S. S. et al. (2010). Spatiotemporal imag-
ing of cortical activation during verb generation and picture naming.
NeuroImage, 50, 291–301.
Ehrlich, P. R. (2000). Human Natures: Genes, Cultures, and the Human Prospect.
Washington, DC: Island Press/Shearwater Books.
Eimas, P. D., Siqueland, E. R., Jusczyk, P., and Vigorito, J. (1971). Speech
perception in infants. Science, 171, 303–306.
Eisenberg, J., Zohar, A., Mei-Tal, G. et al. (2000). A haplotype relative risk
study of the dopamine D4 receptor (DRD4) exon III repeat polymor-
phism and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). American
Journal Medical Genetics, 96, 258–261.
Eisner, E. (1963). A quantitative study of parental behaviour in the
Bengalese finch. Behaviour, 20 (1), 134–206.
Ellis, A. W. (1993). Reading, Writing and Dyslexia: A Cognitive Analysis, 2nd edn.
London: Erlbaum.
Ellis, A. W., Flude, B. M., and Young, A. W. (1987). “Neglect dyslexia” and
the early visual processing of letters in words and nonwords. Cognitive
Neuropsychology, 4, 439–463.
References 575
Ellis, A. W., Lambon Ralph, M. A., Morris, J., and Hunter, A. (2000). Surface
dyslexia: Description, treatment, and interpretation. In E. Funnell
(ed.), Case Studies in the Neuropsychology of Reading (pp. 85–119). Hove:
Psychology Press.
Ellis, A. W. and Young, A. W. (1996). Human Cognitive Neuropsychology. Hove:
Erlbaum.
Elman, J. L. (1991). Incremental learning; Or the importance of starting
small. In Proceedings of the Thirteenth Annual Conference of the Cognitive
Science Society. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
(1993). Learning and development in neural networks: The importance
of starting small. Cognition, 48, 71–99.
(1999). Origins of language: A conspiracy theory. In B. MacWhinney (ed.),
The Emergence of Language. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
(2005). Connectionist models of cognitive development: Where next?
Trends in Cognitive Science, 9, 111–117.
Elman, J. L., Bates, E., Johnson, M. H. et al. (1996). Rethinking Innateness: A
Connectionist Perspective on Development. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Embick, D., Marantz, A., Miyashita, Y., O’Neil, W., and Sakai, K. L. (2000). A
syntactic specialization for Broca’s area. Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences, 23, 6150–6154.
Embick, D. and Poeppel, D. (2005). Defining the relation between linguis-
tics and neuroscience. In A. Cutler (ed.), Twenty-First Century
Psycholinguistics: Four Cornerstones (pp. 103–118). Mahwah, NJ:
Lawrence Erlbaum.
(2006). Mapping syntax using imaging: Prospects and problems for the
study of neurolinguistic computation. In K. Brown (ed.), Encyclopedia of
Language and Linguistics 2nd edn. (pp. 484–486). Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Enard, W., Gehre, S., Hammerschmidt, K. et al. (2009). A humanized version
of Foxp2 affects cortico-basal ganglia circuits in mice. Cell, 137, 961–71.
Enard, W., Przeworski, M., Fisher, S. E. et al. (2002). Molecular evolution of
FOXP2, a gene involved in speech and language. Nature, 418, 869–872.
Ericson, J., Morton, S., Kawakami, A., Roelink, H., and Jessell, T. M. (1996).
Two critical periods of sonic hedgehog signaling required for the
specification of motor neuron identity. Cell, 87, 661–673.
Ericsson, K. A. and Kintsch, W. (1995). Long-term working memory.
Psychological Review, 102, 211–245.
Erteschik-Shir, N. (1973). On the nature of island constraints. Dissertation,
MIT.
Eubank, L. and Gregg, K. R. (1999). Critical periods and (second) language
acquisition: Divide et impera. In D. Birdsong (ed.), Second Language
Acquisition and the Critical Period Hypothesis (pp. 65–99). Mahwah, NJ:
Lawrence Erlbaum.
Evans, C. S., Evans, L., and Marler, P. (1993). On the meaning of alarm
calls: Functional reference in an avian vocal system. Animal Behaviour,
46 (1), 23–38.
576 References
Evans, P. D., Anderson, J. R., Vallender, E. J. et al. (2004a). Adaptive evolution
of ASPM, a major determinant of cerebral cortical size in humans.
Human Molecular Genetics, 13, 489–494.
Evans, P.D., Anderson, J.R., Vallender, E.J., Choi, S.S., and Lahn, B.T.
(2004b). Reconstructing the evolutionary history of microcephalin, a
gene controlling human brain size. Human Molecular Genetics, 13,
1139–1145.
Evans, P. D., Mekel-Bobrov, N., Vallender, E. J., Hudson, R. R., and Lahn, B. T.
(2006). Evidence that the adaptive allele of the brain size gene micro-
cephalin introgressed into Homo sapiens from an archaic Homo lineage.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America,
103, 18178–18183.
Fadiga, L., Craighero, L., and D’Ausilio, A. (2009). Broca’s area in language,
action, and music. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, 1169,
448–458.
Falcaro, M., Pickles, A., Newbury, D. F. et al., and The SLI Consortium.
(2008). Genetic and phenotypic effects of phonological short term
memory and grammatical morphology in specific language impair-
ment. Genes, Brain and Behavior, 7, 393–402.
Falk, D. (1975). Comparative anatomy of the larynx in man and in chim-
panzee: Implications for language in Neanderthal. American Journal of
Physical Anthropology, 43(1), 123–132.
(1990). The radiator hypothesis. Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 13,
333–381.
Fan, J., McCandliss, B. D., Sommer, T., Raz, A., and Posner, M. I. (2002).
Testing the efficiency and independence of attentional networks.
Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 14, 340–347.
Fanselow, G. (1990). Scrambling as NP-movement. In G. Grewendorf and
W. Sternefeld (eds.), Scrambling and Barriers (pp. 113–140). Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
(2000). Optimal exceptions. In B. Stiebels and D. Wunderlich (eds.),
Lexicon in Focus (pp. 173–209). Berlin: Akademie Verlag.
(2001). Features, θ-roles, and free constituent order. Linguistic Inquiry, 32,
405–437.
(2007). Carrots – perfect as vegetables, but please not as a main dish.
Theoretical Linguistics, 33 (3), 353–367.
Farkas, D. F. and de Swart, H. E. (2010). The semantics and pragmatics of
plurals. Semantics and Pragmatics, 3, 1–54.
Fattal, I., Friedmann, N., and Fattal-Valevski, A. (2011). The crucial role of
thiamine in the development of syntax and lexical retrieval: A study of
infantile thiamine deficiency. Brain, 134, 1720–1739.
Fauconnier, G. and Turner, M. (2002). The Way We Think: Conceptual Blending
and the Mind’s Hidden Complexities. New York: Basic Books.
(2008). The origin of language as a product of the evolution of modern
cognition. In B. Laks, S. Cleuziou, J.-P. Demoule, and P. Encreve (eds.),
References 577
Origin and Evolution of Languages: Approaches, Models, Paradigms (pp. 133–
156). London: Equinox.
Faust, M., Dimitrovsky, L., and Davidi, S. (1997). Naming difficulties in
language-disabled children: Preliminary findings with the application
of the TOT paradigm. Journal of Speech Hearing, and Language Research, 40,
1026–1036.
Featherston, S. (2005). Universals and grammaticality: wh-constraints in
German and English. Linguistics, 43, 667–711.
(2007). Data in generative grammar: The stick and the carrot. Theoretical
Linguistics, 33 (3), 269–318.
Felleman, D. J. and Van Essen, D. C. (1991). Distributed hierarchical pro-
cessing in the primate cerebral cortex. Cerebral Cortex, 1, 1–47.
Felser, C. and Roberts, L. (2007). Processing wh-dependencies in a second
language: A cross-modal priming study. Second Language Research, 31,
9–36.
Felser, C., Roberts, L., Marinis, T., and Gross, R. (2003). The processing of
ambiguous sentences by first and second language learners of English.
Applied Psycholinguistics, 24, 453–489.
Fenson, L., Dale, P. S., Resnick, J. S. et al. (1994). Variability in early commu-
nicative development. Monograph of the Society for Research in Child
Development, 59, 174–179.
Ferland, R. J., Eyaid, W., Collura, R. V. et al. (2004). Abnormal cerebellar
development and axonal decussation due to mutations in AHI1 in
Joubert syndrome. Nature Genetics, 36, 1008–1013. Corrigendum: Nature
Genetics, 36, 1126.
Ferman, S., Olshtain, E., Schechtman, E., and Karni, A. (2009). The acquis-
ition of a linguistic skill by adults: Procedural and declarative memory
interact in the learning of an artificial morphological rule. Journal of
Neurolinguistics, 22 (4), 384–412.
Fernandes, M. A., Craik, F., Bialystok, E., and Kreuger, S. (2007). Effects of
bilingualism, aging, and semantic relatedness on memory under
divided attention. Canadian Journal of Experimental Psychology, 61 (2),
128–141.
Ferreira, F. (2003). The misinterpretation of noncanonical sentences.
Cognitive Psychology, 47, 164–203.
(2005). Psycholinguistics, formal grammars, and cognitive science. The
Linguistic Review, 22, 365–380.
Ferreira, F. and Clifton, C. (1986). The independence of syntactic process-
ing. Journal of Memory and Language, 25, 348–368.
Ferreres, A. R., Cuitino, M. M., and Olmedo, A. (2005). Acquired surface
alexia in Spanish: A case report. Behavioral Neurology, 16, 71–78.
Fiebach, C. J., Schlesewsky, M., Lohmann, G., von Cramon, D. Y., and
Friederici, A. D. (2005). Revisiting the role of Broca’s area in sentence
processing: Syntactic integration versus syntactic working memory.
Human Brain Mapping, 24, 79–91.
578 References
Fiebach, C. J., Vos, S. H., and Friederici, A. D. (2004). Neural correlates of
syntactic ambiguity in sentence comprehension for low and high span
readers. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 16, 1562–1575.
Fieder, N., Nickels, L., and Biedermann, B. (2011). Representation of count-
ability information in the mental lexicon: Insights from aphasic mass/
count errors. Presented in the Perspectives on Language Disorders
Workshop. CCD, Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia.
Fiete, I. R., Senn, W., Wang, C. Z. H., and Hahnloser, R. H. R. (2010). Spike-
time-dependent plasticity and heterosynaptic competition organize
networks to produce long scale-free sequences of neural activity.
Neuron, 65 (4), 563–576.
Filipek, P. A., Juranek, J., and Smith, M. (2003). Mitochondrial dysfunction
in autistic patients with 15q inverted duplication. Annals of Neurology
53, 801–804.
Fillmore, C. (1965). Indirect Object Constructions in English and the Ordering of
Transformations. The Hague: Mouton.
Finch, C.E. and Stanford, C.B. (2004). Meat-adaptive genes and the evolution
of slower aging in humans. The Quarterly Review of Biology, 79, 3–50.
Finlay, B. and Darlington, R. (1995). Linked regularities in the development
and evolution of mammalian brains. Science, 268, 1578–1584.
Fischer, E. (1921). Über die Variationen der Hirnfurchen des Schimpansen.
Anatomischer Anzeiger, 54, 48–54.
Fisher, S. E. (2006). Tangled webs: tracing the connections between genes
and cognition. Cognition, 101, 270–297.
Fisher, S. E., Lai, C. S., and Monaco, A. P. (2003). Deciphering the genetic
basis of speech and language disorders. Annual Review of Neuroscience
26, 57–80.
Fisher, S. E. and Marcus, G. F. (2006). The eloquent ape: genes, brains and
the evolution of language. Nature Reviews Genetics, 7, 9–20.
Fisher, S. E. and Scharff, C. (2009). FOXP2 as a molecular window into
speech and language. Trends in Genetics, 25, 166–177.
Fisher, S. E., Vargha-Khadem, F., Watkins, K. E., Monaco, A. P., and
Pembrey, M. E. (1998). Localisation of a gene implicated in a severe
speech and language disorder [published erratum appears in Nature
Genetics, 18 (3), 298]. Nature Genetics, 18 (2), 168–170.
Fitch, W. T. (2000a). The evolution of speech: a comparative review. Trends
in Cognitive Sciences, 4, 258–267.
(2000b). The phonetic potential of nonhuman vocal tracts: Comparative
cineradiographic observations of vocalizing animals. Phonetica, 57,
205–218.
(2002). Comparative vocal production and the evolution of speech: rein-
terpreting the descent of the larynx. In A. Wray (ed.), The Transition to
Language (pp. 21–45). New York: Oxford University Press.
(2005). The evolution of language: A comparative review. Biology and
Philosophy, 20, 193–230.
References 579
(2006). The biology and evolution of music: A comparative perspective.
Cognition, 100, 173–215.
(2009a). Fossil cues to the evolution of speech. In R. Botha and C. Knight
(eds.), The Cradle of Language (pp. 112–134). New York: Oxford
University Press.
(2009b). Prolegomena to a future science of biolinguistics. Biolinguistics, 3
(4), 283–320.
(2010). The Evolution of Language. Cambridge University Press.
Fitch, W. T. and Hauser, M. D. (2004). Computational constraints on syn-
tactic processing in a nonhuman primate. Science, 303, 377–380.
Fitch, W. T. and Reby, D. (2001). The descended larynx is not uniquely
human. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London, 268, 1669–1675.
Flagg, E. J., Oram Cardy, J. E., and Roberts, T. P. L. (2006). MEG detects neural
consequences of anomalous nasalization in vowel-consonant pairs.
Neuroscience Letters, 397 (3), 263–268.
Flavell, J. H., Flavell, E. R., and Green, F. L. (1983). Development of the
appearance-reality distinction. Cognitive Psychology, 15, 95–120.
Flint, J. and Munafo, M. R. (2007). The endophenotype concept in psychi-
atric genetics. Psychological Medicine, 37, 163–180.
Fodor, J. A. (1983). Modularity of Mind. An Essay on Faculty Psychology.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(1998). Concepts. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Fodor, J. A. and Bever, T. G. (1965). The psychological reality of linguistic
segments. Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior, 4, 414–420.
Fodor, J. A., Bever, T. G., and Garrett, M. F. (1974). The Psychology of Language:
An introduction to Psycholinguistics and Generative Grammar. New York:
McGraw-Hill.
Fodor, J. A. and Piattelli Palmarini, M. (2011). What Darwin Got Wrong. New
York: Picador.
Fodor, J. A. and Pylyshyn, Z. W. (1988). Connectionism and cognitive archi-
tecture: A critical analysis. Cognition, 28, 3–71.
Fodor, J. D. (1998b). Parsing to learn. Journal of Psycholinguistic Research, 27 (3),
339–374.
Fodor, J. D. and Crowther, C. (2002). Understanding stimulus poverty argu-
ments. The Linguistic Review, 19, 105–145.
Fodor, J. D. and Sakas, W. G. (2004). Evaluating models of parameter set-
ting. In A. Brugos, L. Micciulla, and C. E. Smith (eds.), BUCLD 28:
Proceedings of the 28th Annual Boston University Conference on Language
Development (pp. 1–27). Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
Foraker, S. and McElree, B. (2007). The role of prominence in pronoun
resolution: Availability versus accessibility. Journal of Memory and
Language, 56, 357–383.
Foraker, S., Regier, T., Kheterpal, N., Perfors, A., and Tenenbaum, J. (2009).
Indirect evidence and the poverty of the stimulus: The case of ana-
phoric one. Cognitive Science, 33, 287–300.
580 References
Forkstam, C., Hagoort, P., Fernandez, G., Ingvar, M., and Petersson, K. M.
(2006). Neural correlates of artificial syntactic structure classification.
NeuroImage, 32, 956–967.
Formisano, E., Kim, D.S., Di Salle, F. et al. (2003). Mirror-symmetric tonotopic
maps in human primary auditory cortex. Neuron, 40, 859–869.
Forster, K. I. and Chambers, S. M. (1973). Lexical access and naming time.
Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior, 12, 627–635.
Fougeron, C. and Keating, P. A. (1997). Articulatory strengthening at edges
of prosodic domains. Journal of Acoustical Society of America, 101 (6),
3728–3740.
Fox, J.W., Lamperti, E. D., Eksioglu, Y.Z. et al. (1998). Mutations in filamin 1
prevent migration of cerebral cortical neurons in human periventricular
heterotopia. Neuron, 21, 1315–1325.
Fragaszy, D., Galloway, A., Johnson-Pynn, J., Hirsh, E., and Brakke, K.
(2002). The sources of skill in seriating cups in children, monkeys,
and apes. Developmental Science, 5, 118–131.
Franck, J., Soare, G., Frauenfelder, U. H., and Rizzi, L. (2010). Object inter-
ference in subject-verb agreement: The role of intermediate traces of
movement. Journal of Memory and Language, 62, 166–182.
Francks, C., MacPhie, I. L., and Monaco, A. P. (2002). The genetic basis of
dyslexia. Lancet Neurology, 1, 483–490.
Frank, R. and Kapur, S. (1996). On the use of triggers in parameter setting.
Linguistic Inquiry, 27, 623–660.
Franklin, S., Buerk, F., and Howard, D. (2002). Generalised improvement in
speech production for a subject with reproduction conduction apha-
sia. Aphasiology, 16, 1087–1114.
Frazier, L. (1978). On comprehending sentences: syntactic parsing strat-
egies. Doctoral Dissertation, University of Connecticut, Storrs.
Frazier, L. and Clifton, C., Jr. (1989). Successive cyclicity in the grammar
and the parser. Language and Cognitive Processes, 4, 93–126.
Frazier, L. and Fodor, J. (1978). The sausage machine: A new two-stage
parsing model. Cognition, 6 (4), 291–325.
Frege, G. (1892). Über Sinn und Bedeutung. Zeitschrift für Philosophie und
philosophische Kritik, 100, 25–50.
French, C. A., Groszer, M., Preece, C. et al. (2007). Generation of mice with a
conditional Foxp2 null allele. Genesis, 45, 440–446.
Frey, R. and Riede, T. (2003). Sexual dimorphism of the larynx of the
Mongolian Gazelle (Procapra gutturosa Pallas, 1777) (Mammalia,
Artiodactyla, Bovidae). Zoologischer Anzeiger, 242, 33–62.
Frey, W. (2007). Some contextual effects of aboutness topics in German. In
A. Späth (ed.), Interfaces and Interface Conditions (pp. 329–348). Berlin:
Walter de Gruyter.
Fridriksson, J., Kjartansson, O., Morgan, P. S. et al. (2010). Impaired speech
repetition and left parietal lobe damage. Journal of Neuroscience, 30,
11057–11061.
References 581
Friederici, A. D. (2002). Towards a neural basis of auditory sentence pro-
cessing. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 6 (2), 78–84.
(2004). Processing local transitions versus long-distance syntactic hier-
archies. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 8, 245–247.
(2009). Pathways to language: fiber tracts in the human brain. Trends in
Cognitive Sciences, 13, 175–181.
Friederici, A. D., Bahlmann, J., Heim, S., Schubotz, R., I., and Anwander, A.
(2006a). The brain differentiates human and non-human grammars:
Functional localization and structural connectivity. Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences USA, 103, 2458–2463.
Friederici, A. D., Fiebach, C. J., Schlesewsky, M., Bornkessel, I., and von
Cramon, D. Y. (2006b). Processing linguistic complexity and gramma-
ticality in the left frontal cortex. Cerebral Cortex, 16, 1709–1717.
Friederici, A. D. and Frisch, S. (2000). Verb argument structure processing:
The role of verb-specific and argument-specific information. Journal of
Memory and Language, 43, 476–507.
Friederici, A. D. and Kotz, S. A. (2003). The brain basis of syntactic pro-
cesses: functional imaging and lesion studies. NeuroImage, 20, Suppl.
1, S8–S17.
Friederici, A. D., Meyer, M., and von Cramon, D.Y. (2000). Auditory language
comprehension: An event-related fMRI study on the processing of
syntactic and lexical information. Brain and Language, 74 (2), 289–300.
Friederici, A. D., Pfeifer, E., and Hahne, A. (1993). Event-related brain
potentials during natural speech processing: Effects of semantic, mor-
phological, and syntactic violations. Cognitive Brain Research, 1,
183–192.
Friederici, A. D., Rüschemeyer, S.-A., Fiebach, C. J., and Hahne, A. (2003).
The role of left inferior frontal and superior temporal cortex in sen-
tence comprehension: Localizing syntactic and semantic processes.
Cerebral Cortex, 13, 1047–3211.
Friederici, A. D. and Wessels, J. M. I. (1993). Phonotactic knowledge of word
boundaries and its use in infant speech-perception. Perception and
Psychophysics, 54, 287–295.
Friedmann, N. and Biran, M. (2003). When is gender accessed? A study of
paraphasias in Hebrew anomia. Cortex, 39, 441–463.
Friedmann, N. and Grodzinsky, Y. (1997). Tense and agreement in agram-
matic production: pruning the syntactic tree. Brain and Language, 56,
397–425.
Friedmann, N., Gvion, A., and Novogrodsky, R. (2006). Syntactic movement
in agrammatism and S-SLI: two different impairments. In A. Belletti,
E. Bennati, C. Chesi, E. Di Domenico, and I. Ferrari (eds.), Language
Acquisition and Development (pp. 197–211). Newcastle: Cambridge
Scholars Press.
Friedmann, N., Hadar-Ovadya, L., and Levy, L. (in press). Subtypes of devel-
opmental anomia in Hebrew [in Hebrew]. Language and Brain.
582 References
Friedmann, N. and Lukov, L. (2008). Developmental surface dyslexias.
Cortex, 44, 1146–1160.
Friedmann, N. and Novogrodsky, R. (2008). Subtypes of SLI: SySLI, PhoSLI,
LeSLI, and PraSLI. In A. Gavarró, and M. João Freitas (eds.), Language
Acquisition and Development (pp. 205–217). Cambridge Scholars Press.
(2011). Which questions are most difficult to understand? The compre-
hension of Wh questions in three subtypes of SLI. Lingua, 121, 367–382.
Friedmann, N. and Szterman, R. (2006). Syntactic movement in orally-
trained children with hearing impairment. Journal of Deaf Studies and
Deaf Education, 11, 56–75.
Frisch, S. and Schlesewsky, M. (2001). The N400 indicates problems of
thematic hierarchizing. Neuroreport, 12, 3391–3394.
(2005). The resolution of case conflicts from a neurophysiological per-
spective. Cognitive Brain Research, 25, 484–498.
Fromkin, V. (1971). The non-anomalous nature of anomalous utterances.
Language, 47, 27–52.
Frye, D., Zelazo, P. D., and Palfai, T. (1995). Theory of mind and rule-based
reasoning. Cognitive Development, 10, 483–527.
Fujita, E., Tanabe, Y., Shiota, A. et al. (2008). Ultrasonic vocalization impair-
ment of Foxp2 (R552H) knock in mice related to speech-language dis-
order and abnormality of Purkinje cells. Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 105, 3117–3122.
Fukuchi-Shimogori, T. and Grove, E. A. (2001). Neocortex patterning by the
secreted signaling molecule FGF8. Science, 294 (5544), 1071–1074.
Fullerton, S. M., Clark, A. G., Weiss, K. M. et al. (2000). Apolipoprotein E
variation at the sequence haplotype level: implications for the origin
and maintenance of a major human polymorphism. American Journal of
Human Genetics, 67, 881–900.
Fuster, J. M. (1980). The Prefrontal Cortex. New York: Raven.
Gagneux, P. and Varki, A. (2001). Genetic differences between humans and
great apes. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution, 18 (1), 2–13.
Galaburda, A. M., LoTurco, J., Ramus, F., Fitch, R. H. and Rosen, G. D. (2006).
From genes to behavior in developmental dyslexia. Nature Neuroscience,
9 (10), 1213–1217.
Galantucci, B., Fowler, C. A., and Turvey, M. T. (2006). The motor theory of
speech perception reviewed. Psychonomic Bulletin and Review, 13,
361–377.
Gallagher, H. L. and Frith, C. D. (2003). Functional imaging of “theory of
mind”. Trends in Cognitive Science, 7 (2), 77–83.
Gallese, V., Fadiga, L., Fogassi, L., and Rizzolatti, G. (1996). Action recog-
nition in the premotor cortex. Brain, 119, 593–609.
Gallistel, R. (1990). The Organization of Learning. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Gallistel, C. R. and King, A. P. (2009). Memory and the Computational Brain:
Why Cognitive Science will Transform Neuroscience. New York: Wiley-
Blackwell.
References 583
Gamble, C. (1999). The Palaeolithic Societies of Europe. Cambridge University
Press.
Ganger, J. (1998). Genes and environment in language acquisition: A study
of vocabulary and syntactic development in twins. Doctoral disserta-
tion. MIT.
Ganger, J., Dunn S., and Gordon, P. (2005). Genes Take Over When the
Input Fails: A Twin Study of the Passive. BUCLD 29 Online Proceedings
Supplement.
Ganger, J., Wexler, K., and M. Soderstrom (1997). The genetic basis for the
development of tense: A preliminary report on a twin study. In
E. Hughes, M. Hughes, and A. Greenhill (eds.), BUCLD 21
(pp. 224–234). Somerville MA: Cascadilla Press.
Gannon, P. J., Holloway, R. L., Broadfield, D. C., and Braun, A. R. (1998).
Asymmetry of chimpanzee planum temporale: Humanlike pattern
of Wernicke’s brain language area homolog. Science, 279 (5348),
220–222.
Gao, Y., Sun, Y., Frank, K. M. et al. (1998). A critical role for DNA end-joining
proteins in both lymphogenesis and neurogenesis. Cell, 95, 891–902.
Garavan, H. (1998). Serial attention within working memory. Memory and
Cognition, 26, 263–276.
Garbin, G., Sanjuan, A., Forn, C. et al. (2010). Bridging language and atten-
tion: Brain basis of the impact of bilingualism on cognitive control.
NeuroImage, 53 1272–1278.
Garrett, M. F. (1976). Syntactic processes in sentence production. In
R. J. Wales and E. Walker (eds.), New Approaches to Language Mechanisms
(pp. 231–256). Amsterdam: North-Holland.
(1992). Disorders of lexical selection. Cognition, 42, 143–180.
Garrett, M., Bever, T., and Fodor, J. (1966). The active use of grammar in
speech perception. Perception and Psychophysics, 1, 30–32.
Gaser, C. and Schlaug, G. (2003). Brain structures differ between musicians
and non- musicians. The Journal of Neuroscience, 23 (27), 9240–9245.
Gathercole, S. E., Willis, C., Baddeley, A. D., and Emslie, H. (1994). The
children’s test of nonword repetition: a test of phonological working
memory. Memory, 2, 103–127.
Gavarró, A., Torrens, V., and Wexler, K. (2010). Object clitic omission: two
language types. Language Acquisition, 17, 192–219.
Gayan, J., Forsberg, H., and Olson, R. K. (1994). Genetic influences of sub-
types of dyslexia. Behavior Genetics, 24, 513.
Gazzaniga, M. S. (2005). Forty-five years of split-brain research and still
going strong. Nature Reviews Neuroscience, 6 (8), 653–659.
Gentner, T. Q. (2007). Mechanisms of temporal auditory pattern recogni-
tion in songbirds. Language Learning and Development, 3 (2), 157–178.
Gentner, T. Q., Fenn, K. M., Margoliash, D., and Nusbaum, H. C. (2006).
Recursive syntactic pattern learning by songbirds. Nature, 440 (7088),
1204–1207.
584 References
Gentner, T. Q. and Hulse, S. H. (2000). Female European starling preference
and choice for variation in conspecific male song. Animal Behaviour, 59
(2), 443–458.
Gerhart, J. and Kirschner, M. (1997). Cells, Embryos, and Evolution. Cambridge,
MA: Blackwell Science.
Gerlai, R. (2002). Phenomics: fiction or the future? Trends Neurosci. 25:
506–509.
German, D. J. (2002). A phonologically based strategy to improve word-
finding abilities in children. Communication Disorders Quarterly, 23,
177–190.
Geschwind, N. (1965). Disconnexion syndromes in animals and man. Brain
88, 237–294, 585–644.
(1970). The organization of brain and language. Science, 170, 940–944.
Geschwind, N. and Galaburda, A. M. (eds.) (1984). Cerebral Dominance: The
Biological Foundations. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Geschwind, N. and Galaburda, A. M. (1987). Cerebral Lateralization.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Gibson, C. J. and Gruen, J. R. (2008). The human lexinome: Genes of lan-
guage and reading. Journal of Communication Disorders, 41, 409–420.
Gibson, E. (1991). A computational theory of human linguistic processing:
Memory limitations and processing breakdown. Doctoral dissertation,
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA.
(1998). Linguistic complexity: Locality of syntactic dependencies.
Cognition, 68, 1–76.
(2000). The dependency locality theory: A distance-based theory of lin-
guistic complexity. In Y. Miyashita, A. Marantaz, and W. O’Neil (eds.),
Image, Language, Brain (pp. 95–126). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Gibson, E. and Fedorenko, E. (2010a). Weak quantitative standards in
linguistics research. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 14 (6), 233–234.
(2010b). The need for quantitative methods in syntax. Language and
Cognitive Processes, doi: 10/1080/01690965.2010.515080.
Gibson, E. and Thomas, J. (1999). Memory limitations and structural for-
getting: The perception of complex ungrammatical sentences as
grammatical. Language and Cognitive Processes, 14 (3), 225–248.
Gibson, E. and Wexler, K. (1994). Triggers. Linguistic Inquiry, 25, 355–407.
Gibson, K. M., Wappner, R. S., Jooste, S. et al. (1998). Variable clinical pre-
sentation in three patients with 3-methylglutaconyl-coenzyme A
hydratase deficiency. Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease, 21, 631–638.
Gibson, K. R. and Ingold, T. (eds.) (1993). Tools, Language and Cognition in
Human Evolution. Cambridge University Press.
Gilbert, S. F. (2000). Developmental Biology, 6th edn. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer
Associates.
Gilbert, S. L., Dobyns, W. B., and Lahn, B. T. (2005). Genetic links between
brain development and brain evolution. Nature Reviews Genetics, 6,
581–590.
References 585
Gillette, J., Gleitman, H., Gleitman, L., and Lederer, A. (1999). Human
simulations of vocabulary learning. Cognition, 73, 135–176.
Gilligan, G. (1987). A cross-linguistic approach to the pro-drop parameter.
PhD dissertation, University of Southern California.
Gillund, G. and Shiffrin, R. M. (1984). A retrieval model for both recogni-
tion and recall. Psychological Review, 91 (1), 1–67.
Gleitman, L. (1990). The structural sources of verb meanings. Language
Acquisition, 1, 3–55.
Gleitman, L. R., Cassidy, K., Nappa, R., Papafragou, A., and Trueswell, J.
(2005). Hard words. Language Learning and Development, 1 (1), 23–64.
Gleitman, L. and Newport, E. (1995). The invention of language by chil-
dren: Environmental and biological influences on the acquisition of
language. In L. Gleitman and M. Liberman (eds.), Language: An Invitation
to Cognitive Science, 2nd edn. (pp. 1–24). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Gleitman, L. R. and Wanner, E. (1982). Language acquisition: The state of
the art. In E. Wanner and L. Gleitman (eds.), Language Acquisition: The
State of the Art (pp. 3–48). Cambridge University Press.
Gold, B. T. and Rastle, K. (2007). Neural correlates of morphological decom-
position during visual word recognition. Journal of Cognitive
Neuroscience, 19, 1983–1993.
Goldberg, A. (2007). Constructions at Work. Oxford University Press.
Goldman, J. S., Farmer, J. M., Wood, E. M. (2005): Comparison of family
histories in FTLD subtypes and related tauopathies. Neurology, 65,
1817–1819.
Goldrick, M. and Rapp, B. (2007). Lexical and post-lexical phonological
representations in spoken production. Cognition, 102, 219–260.
Goldwater, S., Griffiths, T., and Johnson, M. (2009). A Bayesian framework
for word segmentation: Exploring the effects of context. Cognition,
112 (1), 21–54.
Gollan, T. H., Montoya, R., Fennema-Notestine, C., and Morris, S. (2005).
Bilingualism affects picture naming but not picture classification.
Memory and Cognition, 33 (7), 1220–1234.
Gollan, T. H., Salmon, D. P., Montoya, R. I., and Galasko, D. R. (2011). Degree
of bilingualism predicts age of diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease in low-
education but not in highly educated Hispanics. Neuropsychologia, 49,
3826–3830.
Gomes, H., Ritter, W., and Vaughan, H. G. (1995). The nature of preatten-
tive storage in the auditory system. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 7
(1), 81–94.
González, C., Saunders, R. D., Casal, J. et al. (1990). Mutations at the asp
locus of Drosophila lead to multiple free centrosomes in syncytial
embryos, but restrict centrosome duplication in larval neuroblasts.
Journal of Cell Science, 96, 605–616.
Goodall, J. and von Lawick, H. (2000). In the Shadow of Man. New York:
Houghton Mifflin.
586 References
Goodglass, H. (1993). Understanding Aphasia. San Diego, CA: Academic Press.
Goodglass, H. and Kaplan, E. (1983). Boston Diagnostic Aphasia Examination.
Philadelphia, PA: Lea and Febiger.
Goodglass, H., Wingfield, A., Hyde, M. R., and Theurkauf, J. C. (1986).
Category specific dissociations in naming and recognition by aphasic
patients. Cortex, 22 (1), 87–102.
Gopnik, M. (1990a). Feature blindness: A case study. Language Acquisition, 1,
139–164.
(1990b). Feature-blind grammar and dysphasia. Nature, 344, 715.
Gopnik, M. and Crago, M. B. (1991). Familial aggregation of a developmen-
tal language disorder. Cognition, 39 (1), 1–50.
Gordon, P. (1986). Level ordering in lexical development. Cognition, 21,
73–93.
Gordon, P., Hendrick, R., and Johnson, M. (2001). Memory and interference
during processing. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory,
and Cognition, 27, 1411–1423.
Gordon, P. C., Hendrick, R., and Levine, W. H. (2002). Memory-load inter-
ference in syntactic processing. Psychological Science, 13 (5), 425–430.
Gordon, P. C., Hendrick, R., Johnson, M., and Lee, Y. (2006). Similarity-
based interference during language comprehension: Evidence from
eye tracking during reading. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning,
Memory, and Cognition, 32 (6), 1304–1321.
Gottesman, I. I. and Gould, T. D. (2003). The endophenotype concept in
psychiatry: etymology and strategic intentions. American Journal of
Psychiatry, 160, 636–645.
Gough, P. (1965). Grammatical transformations and speed of understand-
ing. Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior 4, 107–111.
(1966). The verification of sentences. The effects of delay of evidence and
sentence length. Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior 5, 492–496.
Gould, J. L. (1976). The dance language controversy. Quarterly Review of
Biology, 51, 211–244.
Gould, S. J. (1977). Ontogeny and Phylogeny. Cambridge: Belknap Press.
(1997). The exaptive excellence of spandrels as a term and prototype.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA, 94, 10750–10755.
(2002). The Structure of Evolutionary Theory. Cambridge: Belknap Press.
Gould, T. D. and Gottesman, I. I. (2006). Psychiatric endophenotypes and
the development of valid animal models. Genes Brain Behav, 5, 113–119.
Gout, A. (2001). Etapes précoces de l’acquisition du lexique. Unpublished
PhD thesis, Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales, Paris.
Gout, A., Christophe, A., and Morgan, J. (2004). Phonological phrase boun-
daries constrain lexical access: II. Infant data. Journal of Memory and
Language, 51, 548–567.
Grafman, J., Schwab, K., Warden, D. et al. (1996). Frontal lobe injuries,
violence, and aggression: A report of the Vietnam head injury study.
Neurology, 46, 1231–1238.
References 587
Granfeldt, J. and Schlyter, S. (2004). Cliticisation in the acquisition of French
as L1 and L2. In P. Prévost and J. Paradis (eds.), The Acquisition of French in
Different Contexts (pp. 333–370). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Granfeldt, J., Schlyter, S., and Kihlstedt, M. (2007). French as cL2, 2L1 and L1
in pre-school children. Petites Études Romanes de Lund, 24, 5–42.
Grant, S. G. (2003). Systems biology in neuroscience: bridging genes to
cognition. Current Opinion in Neurobiology, 13, 577–582.
Grant, S.G., Marshall, M. C., Page, K.L., Cumiskey, M. A., and Armstrong, J.D.
(2005). Synapse proteomics of multiprotein complexes: En route
from genes to nervous system diseases. Human Molecular Genetics, 14,
R225–R234.
Graves, W. W., Grabowski, T. J., Mehta, S., and Gordon, J. K. (2007). A neural
signature of phonological access: Distinguishing the effects of word
frequency from familiarity and length in overt picture naming. Journal
of Cognitive Neuroscience, 19, 617–631.
Gray, R. (2005). Pushing the time barrier in the quest for language roots.
Science, 309, 2007–2008.
Graybiel, A. M. (1995). Building action repertoires: memory and learning
functions of the basal ganglia. Current Opinion in Neurobiology, 5,
733–741.
Green, C. and Bavelier, D. (2003). Action video game modifies visual selec-
tive attention. Nature, 423, 534–537.
Green, D. W. (1998). Mental control of the bilingual lexicosemantic system.
Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 1, 67–81.
Grewe, T., Bornkessel, I., Zysset, S. et al. (2005). The emergence of the
unmarked: A new perspective on the language-specific function of
Broca’s area. Human Brain Mapping, 26, 178–190.
Grewe, T., Bornkessel, I., Zysset, S. et al. (2006). Linguistic prominence and
Broca’s area: The influence of animacy as a linearization principle.
Neuroimage, 32, 1395–1402.
Grewe, T., Bornkessel-Schlesewsky, I., Zysset, S. et al. (2007). The role of the
posterior superior temporal sulcus in the processing of unmarked
transitivity. NeuroImage, 35, 343–352.
Grewendorf, G. (2007). Empirical evidence and theoretical reasoning in
generative grammar. Theoretical Linguistics, 33 (3), 369–381.
Grewendorf, G. and Sabel, J. (1999). Scrambling in German and Japanese:
Adjunction vs. multiple specifiers. Natural Language and Linguistic
Theory, 17, 1–65.
Griffiths, T. L. and Kalish, M. L. (2007). Language evolution by iterated
learning with Bayesian agents. Cognitive Science, 31 (3), 441–480.
Griffiths, T. L., Kemp, C., and Tenenbaum, J. B. (2008). Bayesian models of
cognition. In R. Sun (ed.), The Cambridge Handbook of Computational
Cognitive Modeling (pp. 59–100). Cambridge University Press.
Grodzinsky, Y. (1985). On the interaction between linguistics and neuro-
psychology. Brain and Language, 26, 186–196.
588 References
(1986). Language deficits and the theory of syntax. Brain and Language, 27,
135–159.
(1989). Agrammatic comprehension of relative clauses. Brain and
Language, 31, 480–499.
(1990). Theoretical perspectives on language deficits. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(1995). A restrictive theory of agrammatic comprehension. Brain and
Language, 50, 27–51.
(2000). The neurology of syntax: Language use without Broca’s area.
Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 23, 1–21.
Grodzinsky, Y. and K. Amunts (eds.) (2006). Broca’s Region. Oxford University
Press.
Grodzinsky, Y. and Friederici, A. D. (2006). Neuroimaging of syntax and
syntactic processing. Current Opinion in Neurobiology, 16, 240–246.
Grodzinsky, Y. and Santi, A. (2008). The battle for Broca’s region. Trends in
Cognitive Sciences, 12, 474–480.
Gronlund, S. D., Edwards, M. B., and Ohrt, D. D. (1997). Comparison of
the retrieval of item versus spatial position information. Journal
of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory and Cognition, 23, 1261–1274.
Grosjean, F. and Frauenfelder, U. H. (eds.) (1996). A guide to spoken word
recognition paradigms. Language and Cognitive Processes, 11 (6).
Gross, M., Say, T., Kleingers, M., Clahsen, H., and Münte, T. F. (1998).
Human brain potentials to violations in morphologically complex
Italian words. Neuroscience Letters, 241, 83–86.
Gross, S. and Culbertson, J. (2011). Revisited linguistic intuitions. British
Journal for the Philosophy of Science 62 (3), 639–656.
Grossman, L. I., Wildman, D. E., Schmidt, T. R., and Goodman, M. (2004).
Accelerated evolution of the electron transport chain in anthropoid
primates. Trends in Genetics, 20, 578–585.
Groszer, M., Keays, D. A., Deacon, R. M. et al. (2008). Impaired synaptic
plasticity and motor learning in mice with a point mutation impli-
cated in human speech deficits. Current Biology, 18, 354–362.
Gruber, T., Muller, M. N., Reynolds, V., Wrangham, R., and Zuberbühler, K.
(2011). Community-specific evaluation of tool affordances in wild
chimpanzees. Scientific Reports, 1, 128.
Gruber, T., Muller, M.N., Strimling, P., Wrangham, R. W., and Zuberbühler, K.
(2009). Wild chimpanzees rely on their cultural knowledge to solve an
experimental honey acquisition task. Current Biology, 19, 1806–1810.
Grün, R. and Stringer, C. B. (2000). Tabun revisited: revised ESR chronology
and new ESR and U-series analyses of dental material from Tabun C1.
Journal of Human Evolution, 39, 601–612.
Guasti, M. T. (2002). Language Acquisition: The Growth of Grammar. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Gundel, J. K. (1999). On different kinds of focus. In P. Bosch and R. van der
Sandt (eds.), Focus: Linguistic, Cognitive, and Computational Perspectives
(pp. 293–305). Cambridge University Press.
References 589
Gunz, P., Neubauer, S., Maureille, B., and Hublin, J.-J. (2010). Brain develop-
ment after birth differs between Neanderthals and modern humans.
Current Biology, 20(21), R921–R922.
Gusella, J. F. and MacDonald, M. E. (2006). Huntington’s disease: Seeing the
pathogenic process through a genetic lens. Trends in Biochemical
Sciences, 31, 533–540.
Guthrie, R. D. (2005). The Nature of Paleolithic Art. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
Gvion, A. and Friedmann, N. (2008). FriGvi: A battery for the diagnosis of
phonological working memory [in Hebrew]. Language and Brain, 7,
161–180.
(2012a). Phonological short term memory in conduction aphasia.
Aphasiology, 26 (3–4), 579–614.
(2012b). Does phonological working memory limitation affect sentence
comprehension? A study of conduction aphasia. Aphasiology, 26 (3–4),
494–535.
(2012c). The interaction between lexical retrieval and oral reading: evi-
dence from acquired and developmental anomia and surface dyslexia.
Presented at the 13th Science of Aphasia conference, Groningen,
Netherlands.
Haarmann, H. (1996). Early Civilization and Literacy in Europe. An Inquiry into
Cultural Continuity in the Mediterranean World. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Hacquard, V., Walter, M. A., and Marantz, A. (2007). The effects of inven-
tory on vowel perception in French and Spanish: an MEG study. Brain
and Language, 100 (3), 295–300.
Haegeman, L. (1994). Introduction to Government and Binding Theory.
Cambridge, MA: Blackwell.
Haesler, S., Rochefort, C., Georgi, B. et al. (2007). Incomplete and inaccurate
vocal imitation after knockdown of FoxP2 in songbird basal ganglia
nucleus Area X. PLoS Biology, 5 (12): e321.
Haesler, S., Wada, K., Nshdejan, A. et al. (2004). Foxp2 expression in avian
vocal learners and non-learners. The Journal of Neuroscience, 24,
3164–3175.
Hagoort, P. (1993). Impairments of lexical-semantic processing in aphasia:
evidence from the processing of lexical ambiguities. Brain and
Language, 45, 189–232.
(2003). How the brain solves the binding problem for language: A neuro-
computational model of syntactic processing. NeuroImage, 20, S18–S29.
(2005). On Broca, brain, and binding: A new framework. Trends in
Cognitive Sciences, 9, 416–423.
Hagoort, P. and Brown, C. (2000). ERP effects of listening to speech com-
pared to reading: the P600/SPS to syntactic violations in spoken sen-
tences and rapid serial visual presentation. Neuropsychologia, 38,
1531–1549.
590 References
Hagoort, P., Brown, C., and Groothusen, J. (1993). The syntactic positive
shift (SPS) as an ERP measure of syntactic processing. Language and
Cognitive Processes, 8, 439–483.
Hagoort, P., Hald, L., Bastiaansen, M., and Petersson, K. M. (2004).
Integration of word meaning and world knowledge in language com-
prehension. Science, 304, 438–441.
Hahnloser, R. H. R., Kozhevnikov, A. A., and Fee, M. S. (2002). An ultra-
sparse code underlies the generation of neural sequences in a song-
bird. Nature, 419 (6902), 65–70.
Hahnloser, R. H. R. and Kotowicz, A. (2010). Auditory representations and
memory in birdsong learning. Current Opinion in Neurobiology, 20 (3),
332–339.
Haider, H. (1992). Branching and discharge. Working Papers of the
Sonderforschungsbereich 340, 23, 1–31.
(2000). OV is more basic than VO. In P. Svenonius (ed.), The Derivation of VO
and OV (pp. 45–67). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
(2007). As a matter of facts: Comments on Featherston’s sticks and
carrots. Theoretical Linguistics, 33 (3), 381–395.
(2012). Symmetry Breaking in Syntax. Cambridge University Press.
Haider, H. and Rosengren, I. (2003). Scrambling: Nontriggered chain for-
mation in OV languages. Journal of Germanic Linguistics, 15, 203–267.
Hakem, R., de la Pompa, J. L., Sirard, C. et al. (1996). The tumor suppressor
gene Brca1 is required for embryonic cellular proliferation in the
mouse. Cell, 85, 1009–1023.
Hall, B. K. (ed.) (1994). Homology. The Hierarchical Basis of Comparative Biology.
San Diego, CA: Academic Press.
Hall, B. K. (1999). Evolutionary Developmental Biology, 2nd edn. Dordrecht:
Kluwer Academic.
Halle, M. (1972). Theoretical issues in phonology in the 1970s. In A. Rigault
and R. Charbonneau (eds.), Proceedings of the Seventh International
Congress of Phonetic Sciences (pp. 179–205). The Hague: Mouton.
(2002). From Memory to Speech and Back: Papers on Phonetics and Phonology,
1954–2002. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
Halle, M. and Idsardi, W. (1995). General properties of stress and metrical
structure. In J. Goldsmith (ed.), The Handbook of Phonological Theory
(pp. 403–443). Cambridge, MA: Blackwell.
Halle, M. and Vergnaud, J. R. (1987). An Essay on Stress. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Hallé, P., Durand, C., and De Boysson-Bardies, B. (2008). Do 11-month-old
French infants process articles? Language and Speech, 51, 45–66.
Hämäläinen, M. S. (1992). Magnetoencephalography: A tool for functional
brain imaging. Brain Topography, 5 (2), 95–102.
Hamilton, A. C. and Branch Coslett, H. (2007). Dissociation of inflectional
and derivational morphology in English: Evidence from a single-case
study. Brain and Language, 103, 51–52.
References 591
Hamilton, W. D. (1964). The genetical evolution of social behavior. Journal
of Theoretical Biology, 7 (1), 1–52.
Hampton, C. M., Sakata, J. T., and Brainard, M. S. (2009). An avian basal
ganglia-forebrain circuit contributes differentially to syllable versus
sequence variability of adult Bengalese Finch song. Journal of
Neurophysiology, 101 (6), 3235–3245.
Han, C., Lidz, J., and Musolino, J. (2007). V-raising and grammar competi-
tion in Korean: Evidence from negation and quantifier scope. Linguistic
Inquiry, 38 (1), 1–47.
Hannula-Jouppi, K., Kaminen-Ahola, N., Taipale, M. et al. (2005). The axon
guidance receptor gene ROBO1 is a candidate gene for developmental
dyslexia. PLoS Genetics 1: e50.
Hansell, M. K. (2000). Bird Nests and Construction Behaviour. Cambridge
University Press.
Hansen, P. C., Kringelbach, M. L., and Salmelin, R. (2010). MEG: An
Introduction to Methods. New York: Oxford University Press.
Hari, R., Hämäläinen, M., Ilmoniemi, R. et al. (1984). Responses of the primary
auditory cortex to pitch changes in a sequence of tone pips:
Neuromagnetic recordings in man. Neuroscience Letters, 50 (1–3), 127–132.
Harley, H. and Ritter, E. (2002). A feature-geometric analysis of person and
number. Language, 78, 482–526.
Harm, M. W. and Seidenberg, M. S. (2004). Computing the meaning of
words in reading: Cooperative division of labor between visual and
phonological processes. Psychological Review, 111, 662–720.
Harold, D., Paracchini, S., Scerri, T. et al. (2006). Further evidence that the
KIAA0319 gene confers susceptibility to developmental dyslexia.
Molecular Psychiatry, 11: 1085–1091.
Hartshorne, C. (1973). Born to Sing. Bloomington: Indiana University Press.
Hashimoto, H., Shintani, N., Tanaka, K. et al. (2001). Altered psychomotor
behaviors in mice lacking pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating poly-
peptide (PACAP). Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the
United States of America, 98, 13355–13360.
Haupt, F. S., Schlesewsky, M., Roehm, D., Friederici, A. D., and Bornkessel-
Schlesewsky, I. (2008). The status of subject-object reanalyses in the
language comprehension architecture. Journal of Memory and Language,
59, 54–96.
Hauser, M. D. (1996). The Evolution of Communication. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
(2000). Wild Minds: What Animals Really Think. New York: Henry Holt.
Hauser, M. D. and Fitch, W. T. (2003). What are the uniquely human com-
ponents of the language faculty? In M. Christiansen and S. Kirby (eds.),
Language Evolution (pp. 158–181). New York: Oxford University Press.
Hauser, M. D., Chomsky, N., and Fitch, W. T. (2002). The faculty of
language: What is it, who has it, and how did it evolve? Science, 298,
1569–1579.
592 References
Hawkins, J. A. (1994). A Performance Theory of Order and Constituency.
Cambridge University Press.
(2004). Efficiency and Complexity in Grammars. Oxford University Press.
Haznedar, B. and B. Schwartz (1997). Are there optional infinitives in child
L2 acquisition? In E. Hughes, M. Hughes, and A. Greenhill (eds.),
Proceedings of the 21st Annual Boston University Conference on Language
Development, (pp. 257–268). Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
Heck, F. (2000). Tiefenoptimierung: Deutsche Wortstellung als wettbe-
werbsgesteuerte Basisgenerierung. Linguistische Berichte, 184, 441–468.
Heim, I. and Kratzer, A. (1998). Semantics in Generative Grammar. Oxford:
Blackwell Publishers.
Heim, J.-L. (1989). La nouvelle réconstitution du crâne néanderthalien de la
Chapelle-aux-Saints: Méthode et résultats. Bulletin et Mémoires de la
Société d’Anthropologie de Paris, 1, 95–118.
Heim, S. and Friederici, A. D. (2003). Phonological processing in language
production: time course of brain activity. Neuroreport, 14, 2031–2033.
Heine, B. and Kuteva, T. (2007). The Genesis of Grammar. A Reconstruction.
Oxford University Press.
Heinrich, B. (1991). Ravens in Winter. London: Vintage.
Hendriks, H. (1988). Type change in semantics: The scope of quantification
and coordination. In E. Klein and J. Van Benthem (eds.), Categories,
Polymorphism and Unification (pp. 96–119). Amsterdam: ITLI.
Henschen, S. E. (1918). On the hearing sphere. Acta Oto-laryngologica, 1,
423–486.
Henshilwood, C. S., d’Errico, F., and Watts, I. (2009). Engraved ochres from
the Middle Stone Age levels of Blombos Cave, South Africa. Journal of
Human Evolution, 57, 27–47.
Henshilwood, C. S., d’Errico, F., Yates, R. et al. (2002). Emergence of modern
human behaviour: Middle Stone Age engravings from South Africa.
Science, 295, 1278–1280.
Henshilwood, C. S. and Dubreuil, B. (2009). Reading the artifacts: Gleaning
language skills from the Middle Stone Age in southern Africa. In
R. Botha and C. Knight (eds.), The Cradle of Language (pp. 41–61). New
York: Oxford University Press.
Henshilwood, C. S. and Marean, C. W. (2003). The origin of modern human
behavior. Critique of the models and their test implications. Current
Anthropology, 44, 627–651.
Herbert, R. and Best, W. (2010). The role of noun syntax in spoken word
production: Evidence from aphasia. Cortex, 46, 329–342.
Herbinger, I., Boesch, C., and Rothe, H. (2001). Territory characteristics
among three neighboring chimpanzee communities in the Tai
National Park, Côte d’Ivoire. International Journal of Primatology, 22,
143–167.
Herbinger, I., Papworth, S., Boesch, C., and Zuberbühler, K. (2009). Vocal,
gestural and locomotor responses of wild chimpanzees to familiar and
References 593
unfamiliar intruders: a playback study. Animal Behaviour, 78,
1389–1396.
Herder, J. G. (1772). Essay on the origin of language. In On the Origin of
Language (pp. 87–166).
Herman, L. M., Kuczaj, S. A., and Holder, M. D. (1993). Responses to anom-
alous gestural sequences by a language-trained dolphin: Evidence
for processing of semantic relations and syntactic information.
Journal of Experimental Psychology: General, 122, 184–194.
Hermer, L. and Spelke, E. (1996). Modularity and development: The case of
spatial reorientation. Cognition, 61 (3), 195–232.
Hernández, M., Costa, A., Fuentes, L. J., Vivas, A. B., and Sebastián-Gallés, N.
(2010). The impact of bilingualism on the executive control and ori-
enting networks of attention. Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 13
(3), 315–325.
Hernández, M., Costa, A., and Humphreys, G. W. (2012). Escaping capture:
Bilingualism modulates distraction from working memory. Cognition,
122, 37–50.
Hickey, R. (ed.) (2010). Handbook of Language Contact. Chichester: Wiley-
Blackwell.
Hickok, G., Buchsbaum, B., Humphries, C., and Muftuler, T. (2003). Auditory-
motor interaction revealed by fMRI: Speech, music, and working mem-
ory in area Spt. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 15, 673–682.
Hickok, G., Erhard, P., Kassubek, J. et al. (2000). A functional magnetic
resonance imaging study of the role of left posterior superior tempo-
ral gyrus in speech production: Implications for the explanation of
conduction aphasia. Neuroscience Letters, 287 (2), 156–160.
Hickok, G., Holt, L. L., and Lotto, A. J. (2009a). Response to Wilson: What
does motor cortex contribute to speech perception? Trends in Cognitive
Sciences, 13, 330–331.
Hickok, G., Houde, J. F., and Rong, F. (2011). Sensorimotor integration in
speech processing: Computational basis and neural organization.
Neuron, 69, 407–422.
Hickok, G., Okada, K., Barr, W. et al. (2008). Bilateral capacity for speech
sound processing in auditory comprehension: Evidence from Wada
procedures. Brain and Language 107, 179–184.
Hickok, G., Okada, K., and Serences, J. T. (2009b). Area Spt in the human
planum temporale supports sensory-motor integration for speech
processing. Journal of Neurophysiology, 101, 2725–2732.
Hickok, G. and Poeppel, D. (2000). Towards a functional neuroanatomy of
speech perception. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 4, 131–138.
(2004). Dorsal and ventral streams: A framework for understanding
aspects of the functional anatomy of language. Cognition, 92 (1–2),
67–99.
(2007). The cortical organization of speech processing. Nature Reviews.
Neuroscience, 8 (5), 393–402.
594 References
Higham, T., Jacobi, R., Julien, M. et al. (2010). Chronology of the Grotte du
Renne (France) and implications for the context of ornaments and
human remains within the Châtelperronian. Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences USA, 107(47), 20234–20239.
Hill, A. A. (1961). Grammaticality. Word, 17, 1–10.
Hill, E.L. (2001). Non-specific nature of specific language impairment: A
review of the literature with regard to concomitant motor impair-
ments. International Journal of Language and Communication Disorders, 36
(2), 149–171.
Hill, P. R., Hogben, J. H., and Bishop, D. (2005). Auditory frequency discrim-
ination in children with specific language impairment: A longitudinal
study. Journal of Speech, Language, and Hearing Research, 48 (5), 1136.
Hillis, A. E. (1998). Treatment of naming disorders: New issues regarding old
therapies. Journal of the International Neuropsychological Society, 4, 648–660.
(2007). Aphasia: Progress in the last quarter of a century. Neurology, 69,
200–213.
Hinde, R. A. and Steel, E. (1976). The effect of male song on an estrogen-
dependent behavior pattern in the female canary (Serinus canarius).
Hormones and Behavior, 7 (3), 293–304.
Hinton, G. E. (1989). Connectionist learning procedure. Artificial Intelligence,
40, 185–234.
Hinton, G. E. and Nowlan, S. J. (1987). How learning can guide evolution.
Complex Systems, 1, 495–502.
Hintzman, D. L. (1988). Judgments of frequency and recognition memory
in a multiple-trace memory model. Psychological Review, 95, 528–551.
Hintzman, D. L. and Caulton, D. A. (1997). Recognition memory and modal-
ity judgments: A comparison of retrieval dynamics. Journal of Memory
and Language, 37, 1–23.
Hintzman, D. L. and Curran, T. (1994). Retrieval dynamics of recognition
and frequency judgments: Evidence for separate processes of familiar-
ity and recall. Journal of Memory and Language, 33, 1–18.
Hirsh-Pasek, K. and Golinkoff, R. (1996). The Origins of Grammar: Evidence
From Early Language Comprehension. Cambridge, MA: MIT.
Hochberg, J. (1988). Learning Spanish stress: Developmental and theoret-
ical perspectives. Language, 64 (4), 683–706.
Hockett, C. (1960). The origin of speech. Scientific American, 203, 89–9.
Hockings, K. J., Anderson, J. R., and Matsuzawa, T. (2006). Road crossing in
chimpanzees: A risky business. Current Biology, 16, R668–R670.
Hoen, M., Golembiowski, M., Guyot, E. et.al. (2003). Training with cognitive
sequences improves syntactic comprehension in agrammatic apha-
sics. Neuroreport, 14 (3), 495–499.
Hoen, M., Pachot-Clouard, M., Segebarth, C., and Dominey, P. F. (2006).
When Broca experiences the Janus syndrome: An ER-fMRI study com-
paring sentence comprehension and cognitive sequence processing.
Cortex, 42 (4), 605–623.
References 595
Hofmann, H. A. (2003). Functional genomics of neural and behavioral
plasticity. Journal of Neurobiology, 54, 272–282.
Hofmeister, P. (2010). Representational complexity and memory retrieval in
language comprehension. Language and Cognitive Processes, 26 (3),
376–405.
Hofmeister, P. and Sag, I. (2010). Cognitive constraints and island effects.
Language, 86, 366–415.
Hogan, P. C. (ed.) (2011). The Cambridge Encyclopedia of the Language Sciences.
Cambridge University Press.
Hohne, E. A. and Jusczyk, P. W. (1994). Two-month-old infants’ sensitivity
to allophonic differences. Perception and Psychophysics, 56, 613–623.
Hoji, H. (2010). Hypothesis testing in generative grammar: Evaluation of
predicted schematic asymmetries. Journal of Japanese Linguistics, 26, 25–52.
Holcomb, P. and Neville, H. (1990). Auditory and visual semantic priming
in lexical decision: A comparison using event-related brain potentials.
Language and Cognitive Processes, 5, 281–312.
Holldobler, B. (1971). Recruitment behavior in Camponotus socius.
Zeitschrift für Vergleichende Physiologie, 75, 123–42.
(1978). Ethological aspects of chemical communication in ants. Advances
in the Study of Behavior, 8, 75–115.
Holloway, R. L. (1983). Human paleontological evidence relevant to lan-
guage behavior. Human Neurobiology, 2, 105–114.
Holt, L. and Lotto, A. (2008). Speech perception within an auditory cognitive
science framework. Current Directions in Psychological Science, 17 (1), 42–46.
Honda, E. and Okanoya, K. (1999). Acoustical and syntactical comparisons
between songs of the white-backed munia (Lonchura striata) and its
domesticated strain, the Bengalese finch (Lonchura striata var. domes-
tica). Zoological Science, 16, 319–326.
Hopcroft, J. E., Motwani, R., and Ullman, J. D. (2001). Introduction to Automata
Theory, Languages, and Computation. Boston, MA: Addison Wesley.
Hornstein, N. and Lightfoot, D. (1981). Introduction. In N. Hornstein and
D. Lightfoot (eds.), Explanation in Linguistics: The Logical Problem of
Language Acquisition (pp. 9–31). London: Longman.
Horwitz, B., Rumsey, J. M., and Donohue, B. C. (1998). Functional connec-
tivity of the angular gyrus in normal reading and dyslexia. Proceedings
of the National Academy of Sciences USA, 95, 8939–8944.
Hosino, T. and Okanoya, K. (2000). Lesion of a higher-order song nucleus
disrupts phrase level complexity in Bengalese finches. NeuroReport, 11,
2091.
Houston, D. M., Santelmann, L. M., and Jusczyk, P. W. (2004). English-
learning infants’ segmentation of trisyllabic words from fluent
speech. Language and Cognitive Processes, 19, 97–136.
Hovers, E., Ilani, S., Bar-Yosef, O., and Vandermeersch, B. (2003). An early
case of color symbolism. Ochre use by modern humans in Qafzeh
Cave. Current Anthropology, 44, 491–522.
596 References
Howard, D. and Franklin, S. (1987). Three ways for understanding written
words, and their use in two contrasting cases of surface dyslexia. In
A. Allport, D. MacKay, W. Prinz, and E. Scheerer (eds.), Language
Perception and Production: Relationships between Listening, Speaking,
Reading and Writing (pp. 340–366). London: Academic Press.
Howard, D. and Gatehouse, C. (2006). Distinguishing semantic and lexical
word retrieval deficits in people with aphasia. Aphasiology, 20, 921–950.
Howard, D., Nickels, L., Coltheart, M., and Cole-Virtue, J. (2006).
Cumulative semantic inhibition in picture naming: Experimental
and computational studies. Cognition, 100, 464–482.
Hsiung, G.-Y. R., Kaplan, B. J., Petryshen, T. L., Lu, S., and Field, L. L. (2004). A
dyslexia susceptibility locus (DYX7) linked to dopamine D4 receptor
(DRD4) region on chromosome 11p15. 5. American Journal of Medical
Genetics, 125B, 112–119.
Hsu, A. and Chater, N. (2010). The logical problem of language acquisition:
A probabilistic perspective. Cognitive Science, 34, 972–1016.
Huang, C-T. J. (1982). Logical relations in Chinese and the theory of gram-
mar. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Huettel, S. A., Song, A. W., and McCarthy, G. (2004). Functional Magnetic
Resonance Imaging. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates.
Humphrey, N. K. (1976). The social function of intellect. In P. P. G. Bateson
and R. A. Hinde (eds.), Growing Points in Ethology (pp. 303–317).
Cambridge University Press.
Humphreys, G. W., Evett, L. J., and Quinlan, P. T. (1990). Orthographic
processing in visual word identification. Cognitive Psychology, 22,
517–560.
Humphreys, G. W. and Forde, E. M. E. (2001). Hierarchies, similarity, and
interactivity in object recognition: “Category-specific” neuropsycho-
logical deficits. Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 24, 453–509.
Humphries, C., Binder, J. R., Medler, D. A., and Liebenthal, E. (2006). Syntactic
and semantic modulation of neural activity during auditory sentence
comprehension. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 18 (4), 665–679.
Humphries, C., Love, T., Swinney, D., and Hickok, G. (2005). Response of
anterior temporal cortex to syntactic and prosodic manipulations
during sentence processing. Human Brain Mapping, 26, 128–138.
Hung, L.-Y., Chen, H.-L., Chang, C.-W., Li, B.-R., and Tang, T. K. (2004).
Identification of a novel microtubule-destabilizing motif in CPAP
that binds to tubulin heterodimers and inhibits microtubule assem-
bly. Molecular Biology of the Cell, 15, 2697–2706.
Hung, L.-Y., Tang, C.-J. C., and Tang, T. K. (2000). Protein 4. 1 R-135 interacts
with a novel centrosomal protein (CPAP) which is associated with the
gamma-tubulin complex. Molecular and Cellular Biology, 20, 7813–7825.
Huotilainen, M., Tiitinen, H., Lavikainen, J. et al. (1995). Sustained fields of
tones and glides reflect tonotopy of the auditory cortex. NeuroReport,
6 (6), 841–844.
References 597
Hurford, J. (1990). Nativist and functional explanations in language acquis-
ition. In I. M. Roca, (ed.), Logical Issues in Language Acquisition (pp. 85–
136). Dordrecht: Foris.
(2000). Social transmission favours linguistic generalization. In
C. Knight, J. R. Hurford, and M. Studdert-Kennedy (eds.), The
Evolutionary Emergence of Language: Social Function and the Origins of
Linguistic Form (pp. 324–352). Cambridge University Press.
(2007). The Origins of Meaning. Oxford University Press.
Hwang, S.-O. K., Monahan, P. J., and Idsardi, W. J. (2010). Underspecification
and asymmetries in voicing perception. Phonology, 27 (2), 205–224.
Hyams, N. (1987). The theory of parameters and syntactic development. In
T. Roeper and E. Williams (eds.), Parameter Setting (pp. 1–22).
Dordrecht: D. Reidel.
Hyltenstam, K. and Abrahamsson, N. (2003). Maturational constraints in
second language acquisition. In C. Doughty and M. H. Long (eds.),
Handbook of Second Language Acquisition (pp. 539–588). Oxford:
Blackwell.
Ikebuchi, M. and Okanoya, K. (2003). Sex differences in song perception
in Bengalese finches measured by the cardiac response. Animal
Behaviour, 65 123–130.
Indefrey, P. (2007). Brain imaging studies of language production. In M. G.
Gaskell (ed.), Oxford Handbook of Psycholinguistics (pp. 547–564). Oxford
University Press.
(2011). The spatial and temporal signatures of word production compo-
nents: a critical update. Frontiers in Psychology, 2, 1–16.
Indefrey, P. and Levelt, W. J. M. (2000). The neural correlates of language
production. In M. Gazzaniga (ed.), The New Cognitive Neurosciences
(pp. 845–865). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Indefrey, P. and Levelt, W. J. M. (2004). The spatial and temporal signatures
of word production components. Cognition, 92, 101–144.
Ingold, T. (1993). Part V. Introduction. Tools, techniques and technology. In
K. R. Gibson and T. Ingold (eds.), Tools, Language and Cognition in Human
Evolution (pp. 337–345). Cambridge University Press.
Inui, T., Ogawa, K., and Ohba, M. (2007). Role of left inferior frontal
gyrus in the processing of particles in Japanese. Neuroreport, 18,
431–434.
Ionin, T. and K. Wexler (2002). Why is “is” easier than “-s”?: Acquisition of
tense/agreement morphology by child L2-English learners. Second
Language Research, 18(2), 95–136.
Isel, F. (2005). First- and second-language processing: Cross-linguistic neu-
rophysiological evidence. Le langage et l’homme, 40, 79–95.
Isler, K. and van Schaik, C. P. (2006). Metabolic costs of brain size evolution.
Biology Letters, 2, 557–560.
Ivanova, I. and Costa, A. (2008). Does bilingualism hamper lexical access in
speech production? Acta Psychologica, 127, 277–288.
598 References
Jablonka, E. and Lamb, M. J. (2005). Evolution in Four Dimensions. Genetic,
Epigenetic, Behavioral, and Symbolic Variation in the History of Life.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Jackendoff, R. (1997). The Architecture of the Language Faculty. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
(2002). Foundations of Language. Brain, Meaning, Grammar, Evolution. New
York: Oxford University Press.
(2009). Parallels and nonparallels between language and music. Music
Perception, 26, 195–204.
Jackendoff, R. and Culicover, P. (1971). A reconsideration of dative move-
ments. Foundations of Language, 7, 397–412.
Jacob, F. (1977). Evolution and tinkering. Science, 196, 1161–1166.
(1978). Darwinism reconsidered. Atlas, January (Translated from Le
Monde, September 6–8, 1977).
(1982). The Possible and the Actual. Seattle: University of Washington Press.
Jacobs, R. A., Jordan, M. I., and Barto, A. (1991). Task decomposition
through competition in a modular connectionist architecture: The
what and where vision tasks. Cognitive Science, 15, 219–250.
Jacobson, P. (1999). Towards a variable-free semantics. Linguistics and
Philosophy, 22, 117–184.
Jacquemot, C., Pallier, C., LeBihan, D., Dehaene, S., and Dupoux, E. (2003).
Phonological grammar shapes the auditory cortex: a functional mag-
netic resonance imaging study. Journal of Neuroscience, 23, 9541–9546.
Jaeger, H., Baronchelli, A., Briscoe, E. et al. (2009). What can mathematical,
computational and robotic models tell us about the origins of syntax?
In D. Bickerton and E. Szathmary (eds.), Biological Foundations and Origin
of Syntax (pp. 385–410). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Jaeger, J. J., Lockwood, A., Kemmerer, D. et al. (1996). A positron emission
tomography study of regular and irregular verb morphology in
English. Language, 72, 451–497.
Jakobson, R., Fant, M., and Halle, M. (1952). Preliminaries to Speech Analysis:
The Distinctive Features and Their Correlates. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Jamain, S., Betancur, C., Quach, H. et al. (2002). Linkage and association
of the glutamate receptor 6 gene with autism. Molecular Psychiatry, 7,
302–310.
Janmaat, K. R. L., Byrne, R. W., and Zuberbühler, K. (2006a). Evidence for a
spatial memory of fruiting states of rainforest trees in wild manga-
beys. Animal Behaviour, 72, 797–807.
Janmaat, K. R. L., Byrne, R. W., and Zuberbühler, K. (2006b). Primates
take weather into account when searching for fruits. Current Biology,
16, 1232–1237.
Janssen, U., Wiese, R., and Schlesewsky, M. (2005). Electrophysiological
responses to violations of morphosyntactic and prosodic features in
derived German nouns. Journal of Neurolinguistics, 19, 466–482.
References 599
January, D., Trueswell, J. C., and Thompson-Schill, S. L. (2009). Co-
localization of Stroop and syntactic ambiguity resolution in Broca’s
area: Implications for the neural basis of sentence processing. Journal
of Cognitive Neuroscience, 21, 2434–2444.
Jarvella, R. J. (1971). Syntactic processing of connected speech. Journal of
Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior, 10, 409–416.
Jarvis, E. (2006). Selection for and against vocal learning in birds and
mammals. Ornithological Science, 5 (1), 5–14.
Javitt, D. C., Schroeder, C. E., Steinschneider, M., Arezzo, J. C., and
Vaughan, H. G., Jr. (1992). Demonstration of mismatch negativity in
the monkey. Electroencephalography and Clinical Neurophysiology, 83 (1),
87–90.
Javitt, D. C., Steinschneider, M., Schroeder, C. E., Vaughan, H. G., and
Arezzo, J. C. (1994). Detection of stimulus deviance within primate
primary auditory cortex: Intracortical mechanisms of mismatch neg-
ativity (MMN) generation. Brain Research, 667 (2), 192–200.
Jenkins, L. (2000). Biolinguistics: Exploring the Biology of Language. Cambridge
University Press.
(ed.) (2004). Variation and Universals in Biolinguistics. Linguistic Variations.
Amsterdam: Elsevier.
(2011). Biolinguistic investigations: Genetics and dynamics. In A. M. Di
Sciullo and C. Boeckx (eds.), The Biolinguistic Enterprise: New Perspectives
on the Evolution and Nature of the Human Language Faculty (pp. 126–134).
Oxford University Press.
Jerison, H. (1973). The Evolution of Brain and Intelligence. New York: Academic
Press.
(1985). Animal intelligence as encephalization. In L. Weiskrantz (ed.),
Animal Intelligence (pp. 21–35). Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Jescheniak, J. D. and Levelt, W. J. M. (1994). Word frequency effects in
speech production: Retrieval of syntactic information and phonolog-
ical form. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory and
Cognition, 20, 824–843.
Jespersen, O. (1922). Language. Its Nature, Development, and Origin. London:
Allen and Unwin.
Joanisse, M. F. and Seidenberg, M. S. (1999). Impairments in verb morphol-
ogy after brain injury: A connectionist model. Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences USA, 96, 7592–7597.
(2005). Imaging the past: Neural activation in frontal and temporal
regions during regular and irregular past-tense processing. Cognitive,
Affective and Behavioral Neuroscience, 5, 282–296.
Johansson, S. (2005). Origins of Language: Constraints on Hypotheses.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Johnson, C. D. (1972). Formal Aspects of Phonological Description. The Hague:
Mouton.
600 References
Johnson, E. K. (2008). Infants use prosodically conditioned acoustic-
phonetic uses to extract words from speech. Journal of the Acoustical
Society of America, 123, EL144–EL148.
Johnson, E. K. and Tyler, M. D. (2010). Testing the limits of statistical learn-
ing for word segmentation. Developmental Science, 13, 339–345.
Johnson, J. S. and Newport, E. L. (1989). Critical period effects in second
language learning: The influence of maturational state on the
acquisition of English as a second language. Cognitive Psychology, 21,
60–99.
Johnson, S. C. and Carey, S. (1998). Knowledge enrichment and conceptual
change in folkbiology: Evidence from Williams syndrome. Cognitive
Psychology, 37 (2), 156–200.
Jonides, J., Lewis, R. L., Nee, D. E. et al. (2008). The mind and brain of short-
term memory. Annual Review of Psychology, 59 (1), 193–224.
Joos, M. (ed.) (1957). Readings in Linguistics. Washington, DC: American
Council of Learned Societies.
Judica, A., De Luca, M., Spinelli, D., and Zoccolotti, P. (2002). Training of
developmental surface dyslexia improves reading performance and
shortens eye fixation duration in reading. Neuropsychological
Rehabilitation, 12, 177–197.
Jurgens, U. (2002). Neural pathways underlying vocal control. Neuroscience
and Biobehavioral Reviews, 26 (2), 235–258.
Jusczyk, P. W. and Aslin, R. N. (1995). Infants’ detection of the sound pat-
terns of words in fluent speech. Cognitive Psychology, 29, 1–23.
Jusczyk, P. W., Friederici, A. D., Wessels, J., Svenkerud, V. Y., and
Jusczyk, A. M. (1993). Infants’ sensitivity to the sound patterns of
native language words. Journal of Memory and Language, 32, 402–420.
Jusczyk, P. W., Hohne, E. A., and Bauman, A. (1999). Infants’ sensitivity to
allophonic cues for word segmentation. Perception and Psychophysics, 61,
1465–1476.
Jusczyk, P. W., Houston, D. M., and Newsome, M. (1999). The beginnings of
word segmentation in English-learning infants. Cognitive Psychology, 39,
159–207.
Jusczyk, P. W., Luce, P. A., and Charles-Luce, J. (1994). Infants’ sensitivity to
phonotactic patterns in the native language. Journal of Memory and
Language, 33, 630–645.
Just, M. and Carpenter, P. A. (1992). A capacity theory of comprehension:
Individual differences in working memory. Psychological Review, 99,
122–149.
Just, M. A., Carpenter, P. A., Keller, T. A., Eddy, W. F., and Thulborn, K. R.
(1996). Brain activation modulated by sentence comprehension.
Science, 274, 114–116.
Kaan, E. and Swaab, T. Y. (2002). The brain circuitry of syntactic compre-
hension. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 6, 350–356.
References 601
Kaas, J. H. (1987). The organization of neocortex in mammals: Implications
for theories of brain function. Annual Review of Psychology, 38, 129–151.
Kaas, J. H. and Collins, C. E. (2001). The organization of sensory cortex.
Current Opinion in Neurobiology, 11 (4), 498–504.
Kable, J. W., Lease-Spellmeyer, J., and Chatterjee, A. (2002). Neural sub-
strates of action event knowledge. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 14
(5), 795–805.
Kadesjö, B. and Gillberg, C. (2001). The comorbidity of ADHD in the general
population of Swedish school-age children. Journal of Child Psychology
and Psychiatry, 42 (4), 487–492.
Kagawa, H., Yamada, H., Mizuta, T. et al. (2012). Ecological correlates of
song complexity in white-rumped munias: The implication of relaxa-
tion of selection as a cause for signal variation in birdsong. Interaction
Studies, 13, 263–284.
Kail, R. (1994). A method for studying the generalized slowing hypothesis
in children with specific language impairment. Journal of Speech and
Hearing Research, 37, 418–421.
Kaiser, G. A. (1994). More about INFLection and agreement: The acquisition
of clitic pronouns in French. In J. M. Meisel (ed.), Bilingual First Language
Acquisition: French and German Grammatical Development (pp. 131–159).
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Kakishita, Y., Sasahara, K., Nishino, T., Takahasi, M., and Okanoya, K. (2008).
Ethological data mining: An automata-based approach to extract behav-
ioral units and rules. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 18 (3), 446–471.
Kako, E. (1999). Elements of syntax in the systems of three language-
trained animals. Animal Learning and Behavior, 27 (1), 1–14.
Kambanaros, M. (2008). The trouble with nouns and verbs in Greek fluent
aphasia. Journal of Communication Disorders, 41, 1–19.
(2010). Action and object naming versus verb and noun retrieval in
connected speech: Comparisons in late bilingual Greek-English
anomic speakers. Aphasiology, 24, 210–230.
Kambanaros, M. and Grohmann, K. K. (2010). Patterns of object and action
naming in Cypriot Greek children with SLI and WFDs. In K. Franich,
L. Keil, K. Iserman, and J. Chandlee (eds.), Proceedings of the 34th Boston
University Child Language Development – Supplement.
Kant, I., Davids, C. A. F. R., and Churton, A. (1899). Kant on Education (Ueber
Paedagogik). London: Kegan Paul, Trench Trübner.
Kanwisher, N. (2000). Domain specificity in face perception. Nature
Neuroscience, 3 (8), 759–763.
Kappelman, J. (1996). The evolution of body mass and relative brain size in
fossil hominids. Journal of Human Evolution, 30, 243–276.
Kaplan, B. J., Wilson, B. N., Dewey, D., and Crawford, S. G. (1998). DCD may
not be a discrete disorder. Human Movement Science, 17, 471–490.
Karmiloff-Smith, A. (1978). A Functional Approach to Child Language.
Cambridge University Press.
602 References
(1992). Beyond Modularity. A Developmental Perspective on Cognitive science.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(1998). Development itself is the key to understanding developmental
disorders. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 2, 389–398.
Kaskan, P. M., and Finlay, B. L. (2001). Encephalization and its developmen-
tal structure: How many ways can a brain get big? In D. Falk and
K. R. Gibson (eds.), Evolutionary Anatomy of the Primate Cerebral Cortex
(pp. 14–19). Cambridge University Press.
Katahira, K., Okanoya, K., and Okada, M. (2007). A neural network model
for generating complex birdsong syntax. Biological Cybernetics, 97 (5–6),
441–448.
Kauffman, S. A. (1993). The Origins of Order: Self-Organization and Selection in
Evolution. Oxford University Press.
(1995). At Home in the Universe: The Search for the Laws of Self-organization and
Complexity. New York: Oxford University Press.
(2000). Investigations. New York: Oxford University Press.
Kaufmann, W. E. and Worley, P. F. (1999). Neural activity and immediate
early gene expression in the cerebral cortex. Ment. Retard. Dev. Disabil.
Res. Rev. 5: 41–50.
Kawachi, K. (2002). Practice effects on speech production planning:
Evidence from slips of the tongue in spontaneous vs preplanned
speech in Japanese. Journal of Psycholinguistic Research, 31 (4), 363–390.
Kawamoto, A. (1988). Interactive processes in the resolution of lexical
ambiguity. In S. Small, G. Cottrell, and M. K. Tannenhaus (eds.),
Lexical Ambiguity Resolution: Computational, Linguistic, and Psychological
Perspectives (pp. 195–228). New York: Morgan Kauffman.
Kayne, R. S. (1983). Connectedness. Linguistic Inquiry, 14, 223–249.
(1989). Notes on English agreement. CIEFL Bulletin, Hyderabad, India.
(1994). The Antisymmetry of Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(2005). Some notes on comparative syntax, with special reference to
English and French. In G. Cinque and R. S. Kayne (eds.), The Oxford
Handbook of Comparative Syntax (pp. 3–69). New York: Oxford University
Press.
(2009). Antisymmetry and the lexicon. Linguistic Variation Yearbook 2008,
1–32.
(2010). On parameters and on principles of pronunciation. In R. S. Kayne
(ed.), Comparisons and Contrasts (pp. 73–81). New York: Oxford
University Press.
Kazanina, N., Phillips, C., and Isardi, W. (2006). The influence of meaning
on the perception of speech sound contrasts. Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences USA, 103, 11381–11386.
Keating, P., Cho, T., Fougeron, C., and Hsu, C.-S. (2003). Domain-initial
articulatory strengthening in four languages. In J. Local, R. Ogden,
and R. Temple (eds.), Papers in Laboratory Phonology, VI: Phonetic
Interpretation (pp. 145–163). Cambridge University Press.
References 603
Kedar, Y., Casasola, M., and Lust, B. (2006). Getting there faster: 18- and 24-
month-old infants’ use of function words to determine reference. Child
Development, 77, 325–338.
Keenan, E. L. (1976). Towards a universal definition of “subject”. In C. N. Li
(ed.), Subject and Topic (pp. 303–333). New York: Academic Press.
Kehayia, E., and Jarema, G. (1991). On agrammatism in Greek. Neuro- und
Patholinguistik, 35, 47–63.
Keller, F. (2000). Gradience in grammar: Experimental and computational
aspects of degrees of grammaticality. Doctoral dissertation, University
of Edinburgh.
Keller, S. S., Crow, T., Faudas, A., Amunts, K., and Roberts, N. (2009). Broca’s
area: Nomenclature, anatomy, typology and asymmetry. Brain and
Language, 109, 29–48.
Keller, T. A., Carpenter, P. A., and Just, M. A. (2001). The neural bases of
sentence comprehension: A fMRI examination of syntactic and lexical
processing. Cerebral Cortex, 11, 223–237.
Kemp, C., Perfors, A., and Tenenbaum, J. (2007). Learning overhypotheses
with hierarchical Bayesian models. Developmental Science, 10 (3), 307–321.
Kempen, G. and Hoenkamp, E. (1987). An incremental procedural gram-
mar for sentence formulation. Cognitive Science, 11, 201–258.
Kempen, G. and Huijbers, P. (1983). The lexicalization process in sentence
production and naming: Indirect election of words. Cognition, 14,
185–209.
Kenstowicz, M. (1994). Phonology in Generative Grammar. Malden, MA: Wiley-
Blackwell.
Kenan, N., Friedmann, N., Schwartz, R., and Shapiro, L. (2007). Lexical-
Syntactic properties of verbs in the language of children with and
without SLI [In Hebrew]. Language and Brain, 6, 29–37.
Kent, R. D. and Minifie, F. D. (1977). Coarticulation in recent speech pro-
duction models. Journal of Phonetics, 5, 115–133.
Kertesz, A. (2003). Pick complex: an integrative approach to frontotempo-
ral dementia: Primary progressive aphasia, corticobasal degeneration,
and progressive supranuclear palsy. Neurologist, 9, 311–317.
Kiehl, K. A., Liddle, P. F., Smith, A. M. et al. (1999). Neural pathways involved
in the processing of concrete and abstract words. Human Brain
Mapping, 7, 225–233.
Kim, K.H., Relkin, N. R., Lee, K.-M., and Hirsch, J. (1997). Distinct cortical areas
associated with native and second languages. Nature, 388, 171–174.
Kimball, J. (1973). Seven principles of surface structure parsing in natural
language. Cognition, 2 (1), 15–47.
Kimball, J. and Aisseu, J. (1971). I think, you think, he think. Linguistic
Inquiry, 2, 241–246.
King, J. W. and Just, M. A. (1991). Individual differences in syntactic pro-
cessing: The role of working memory. Journal of Memory and Language,
30, 580–602.
604 References
King, M. C. and Wilson, A. C. (1975). Evolution at two levels in humans and
chimpanzees. Science, 188 (4184), 107–116.
Kingsbury, M. A. and Finlay, B. L. (2001). The cortex in multidimensional
space: Where do cortical areas come from? Commentary Article.
Developmental Science, 4, 125–156.
Kinno, R., Kawamura, M., Shioda, S., and Sakai, K. L. (2008). Neural corre-
lates of non-canonical syntactic processing revealed by a picture-
sentence matching task. Human Brain Mapping, 29, 1015–1027.
Kirby, S. (2001). Spontaneous evolution of linguistic structure: An iterated
learning model of the emergence of regularity and irregularity. IEEE
Transactions on Evolutionary Computation, 5 (2), 102–110.
(2002). Natural language from artificial life. Artificial Life, 8 (2), 185–215.
Kirby, S., Cornish, H., and Smith, K. (2008). Cumulative cultural evolution
in the laboratory: An experimental approach to the origins of struc-
ture in human language. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
USA, 105 (31), 10681–10686.
Kirby, S. and Hurford, J. (2002). The emergence of linguistic structure: An
overview of the Iterated Learning Model. In A. Cangelosi and D. Parisi,
editors, Simulating the Evolution of Language (pp. 121–148). London:
Springer Verlag.
Kishino, T., Lalande, M., and Wagstaff, J. (1997). UBE3A/E6-AP mutations
cause Angelman syndrome. Nature Genet. 15: 70–73. Erratum: Nature
Genetics, 15: 411.
Kjelgaard, M. M. and Speer, S. R. (1999). Prosodic facilitation and interfer-
ence in the resolution of temporary syntactic closure ambiguity.
Journal of Memory and Language, 40, 153–194.
Klein, R. G. (1995). Anatomy, behavior, and modern human origins. Journal
of World Prehistory, 9, 167–198.
(2000). Archeology and the evolution of human behaviour. Evolutionary
Anthropology, 9, 17–36.
(2003). Whither the Neanderthals? Science, 299, 1525–1527.
(2009). The Human Career. Human Biological and Cultural Origins, 3rd edn.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Klein, R. G. and Edgar, B. (2002). The Dawn of Human Culture. New York: John
Wiley.
Klima, E. S. and Bellugi, U. (1979). The Signs of Language. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press.
Kluender, R. (1991). Cognitive constraints on variables in syntax. PhD
Dissertation. University of California, San Diego.
(1998). On the distinction between strong and weak islands: a processing
perspective. In Syntax and Semantics 29: The Limits of Syntax (pp. 241–279).
(2004). Are subject islands subject to a processing account? In V. Chand,
A. Kelleher, A. J. Rodriguez, and B. Schmeiser (eds.), Proceedings of the
West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics 23 (pp. 101–125). Somerville,
MA: Cascadilla Press.
References 605
Kluender, R. and M. Kutas. (1993). Subjacency as a processing phenom-
enon. Language and Cognitive Processes, 8, 573–633.
Knecht, H., Pike-Tay, A., and White, R. (eds.) (1993). Before Lascaux: The
Complex Record of the Early Upper Paleolithic. Boca Raton: CRC Press.
Knight, C. (1998). Ritual/speech coevolution: A solution to the problem of
deception. In J. R. Hurford, M. Studdert-Kennedy, and C. Knight (eds.),
Approaches to the Evolution of Language (pp. 148–168). Cambridge
University Press.
Kobayashi, K., Uno, H., and Okanoya, K. (2001). Partial lesions in the
anterior forebrain pathway affect song production in adult
Bengalese finches. NeuroReport, 12 (2), 353.
Koechlin, E., Ody, C., and Kouneiher, F. (2003). The architecture of cogni-
tive control in the human prefrontal cortex. Science, 302, 1181–1185.
Koechlin, E. and Summerfield, C. (2007). An information theoretical
approach to prefrontal executive function. Trends in Cognitive Sciences,
11, 229–235.
Koelsch, S., Gunter, T. C., von Cramon, D. Y. et al. (2002). Bach speaks: A
cortical “language-network” serves the processing of music.
NeuroImage, 17, 956–966.
Koenigs, M. and Tranel, D. (2007). Irrational economic decision-making
after ventromedial prefrontal damage: Evidence from the Ultimatum
Game. Journal of Neuroscience, 27 (4), 951–956.
Kogan, J. A. and Margoliash, D. (1998). Automated recognition of bird song
elements from continuous recordings using dynamic time warping
and hidden Markov models: A comparative study. The Journal of the
Acoustical Society of America, 103, 2185–2196.
Kohn, S. and Melvold, J. (2000). Effects of morphological complexity on
phonological output deficits in fluent and nonfluent aphasia. Brain and
Language, 73, 323–346.
Kohonen, T. (1980). Content Addressable Memories. New York: Springer-
Verlag.
(1984). Self-Organization and Associative Memory. New York: Springer-
Verlag.
Koizumi, H. (2004). The concept of “developing the brain”: A new natural
science for learning and education. Brain and Development, 26, 434–441.
Kojima, S. and Kiritani, S. (1989). Vocal-auditory functions in the chimpan-
zee: Vowel perception. International Journal of Primatology, 10, 199–213.
Kojima, S., Tatsumi, I., Kiritani, S., and Hirose, H. (1989). Vocal-auditory
functions in the chimpanzee: Consonant perception. Human Evolution
4, 403–416.
Komarova, N. L. and Nowak, M. A. (2003). Language dynamics in finite
populations. Journal of Theoretical Biology, 3, 445–457.
Konishi, M. (1965). The role of auditory feedback in the control of vocal-
ization in the white-crowned sparrow. Zeitschrift für Tierpsychologie, 22
(7), 770–783.
606 References
Konopka, G., Bomar, J. M., and Winden, K. (2009). Human-specific tran-
scriptional regulation of CNS development genes by FOXP. Nature, 462,
213–218.
Kosik, K. S. (2003). Beyond phrenology, at last. Nature Reviews Neuroscience,
4, 234–239.
Kouneiher, F., Charron, S., and Koechlin, E. (2009). Motivation and cognitive
control in the human prefrontal cortex. Nature Neuroscience, 12, 939–947.
Kouprina, N., Pavlicek, A., and Mochida, G. H. (2004). Accelerated evolution
of the ASPM gene controlling brain size begins prior to human brain
expansion. PLoS Biology, 2, e126.
Kovács, A. M. and Mehler, J. (2009). Cognitive gains in 7-month-old bilin-
gual infants. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 106 (16),
6556–6560.
Kratzer, A. (1996). Severing the external argument from its verb. In
J. Rooryck and L. Zaring (eds.), Phrase Structure and the Lexicon
(pp. 109–137). Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Krause, J., Lalueza-Fox, C., Orlando, L. et al. (2007). The derived FOXP2
variant of modern humans was shared with Neandertals. Current
Biology, 17, 1908–1912.
Kroffke, S., Rothweiler, M., and Babur, E. (2007). Turkish-German succes-
sive bilingual children: Age of onset and the development of German
V2. Paper presented at the 6th International Symposium on Bilingualism.
Hamburg, May 2007.
Kroodsma, D. E. (1976). Reproductive development in a female songbird:
Differential stimulation by quality of male song. Science, 192, 574–575.
Krubitzer, L. A. (2000). How does evolution build a complex brain? Novartis
Foundation Symposium, 228, 206–220; discussion 220–206.
Krueger, F., Barbey, A. K., and Grafman, J. (2009). The medial prefrontal
cortex mediates social event knowledge. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 13,
103–109.
Kuhl, P. K. (1989). On babies, birds, modules, and mechanisms: a compara-
tive approach to the acquisition of vocal communication. In
R. Dooling and S. Hulse (eds.), The Comparative Psychology of Audition
(pp. 379–422). Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Kuhl, P. K. and Miller, J. D. (1975). Speech perception by the chinchilla:
Voiced-voiceless distinction in alveolar plosive consonants. Science,
190, 69–72.
Kuhl, P. K. and Padden, D. M. (1983). Enhanced discriminability at the
phonetic boundaries for the place feature in macaques. Journal of the
Acoustic Society of America, 73 (3), 1003–1010.
Kuhn, S. L. and Stiner, M. C. (2006). What’s a mother to do? The division of
labor among Neandertals and Modern Humans in Eurasia. Current
Anthropology, 47 (6), 953–963.
Kuida, K., Zheng, T. S., and Na, S. (1996). Decreased apoptosis in the brain
and premature lethality in CPP32-deficient mice. Nature, 384, 368–372.
References 607
Kuno, S. (1973). Constraints on internal clauses and sentential subjects.
Linguistic Inquiry, 4, 363–85.
Kutas, M. and Hillyard, S. A. (1980). Reading senseless sentences: brain
potentials reflect semantic incongruity. Science, 207, 203–205.
(1983). Event-related brain potentials to grammatical errors and seman-
tic anomalies. Memory and Cognition, 11, 539–550.
Kutas, M., Van Petten, C., and Kluender, R. (2006). Psycholinguistics elec-
trified II (1994–2005). In M. Traxler and M. A. Gernsbacher (eds.),
Handbook of Psycholinguistics, 2nd edn. (pp. 659–724). London: Elsevier.
Kuzniecky, R., Andermann, F., and Guerrini, R. (1993). Congenital bilateral
perisylvian syndrome: Study of 31 patients. Lancet, 341, 608–612.
Kwasnicka-Crawford, D. A., Carson, A. R., Roberts, W. et al. (2005).
Characterization of a novel cation transporter ATPase gene (ATP13A4)
interrupted by 3q25-q29 inversion in an individual with language
delay. Genomics, 86, 182–194.
Kwisthout, J. (2006). Joint attention, language evolution, and development.
Master’s thesis, Radboud University, Nijmegen.
Labov, William. (1996). When intuitions fail. Chicago Linguistic Society: Papers
from the Parasession on Theory and Data in Linguistics, 32, 76–106.
Ladefoged, P. and Broadbent, D. (1960). Perception of sequence in auditory
events. Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology, 12, 162–170.
Ladusaw, W. (1979). Polarity sensitivity as inherent scope relations. Ph. D. dis-
sertation, University of Texas at Austin.
(1980). On the notion “Affective” in the analysis of negative polarity
items. Journal of Linguistic Research, 1, 1–23.
(1983), Logical Form and conditions on grammaticality. Linguistics and
Philosophy, 6, 373–392.
Laganaro, M. (2005). Syllable frequency effect in speech production:
Evidence from aphasia. Journal of Neurolinguistics, 18, 221–235.
(2008). Is there a syllable frequency effect in aphasia or in apraxia of
speech or both? Aphasiology, 22, 1191–1200.
Lahey, M. and Edwards, J. (1999). Naming errors of children with specific
language impairment. Journal of Speech Hearing and Language Research,
42, 195–205.
Lahiri, A. and Reetz, H. (2002). Underspecified recognition. Laboratory
Phonology (Vol. VII, pp. 637–675). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
(2010). Distinctive features: Phonological underspecification in repre-
sentation and processing. Journal of Phonetics, 38 (1), 44–59.
Lai, C. S., Fisher, S. E., Hurst, J. A., Vargha-Khadem, F., and Monaco, A. P.
(2001). A forkhead-domain gene is mutated in a severe speech and
language disorder. Nature, 413, 519–523.
Lai, C. S., Gerrelli, D., Monaco, A. P., Fisher, S. E., and Copp, A. J. (2003).
FOXP2 expression during brain development coincides with adult
sites of pathology in a severe speech and language disorder. Brain,
126, 2455–2462.
608 References
Laiacona, M., Luzzatti, C., Zonca, G., Guarnaschelli, C., and Capitani, E.
(2001). Lexical and semantic factors influencing picture naming in
aphasia. Brain and Cognition, 46, 184–187.
Laine, M., Niemi, J., Koivuselkä-Sallinen, P., and Hyönä, J. (1995).
Morphological processing of polymorphemic nouns in a highly
inflecting language. Cognitive Neuropsychology, 12, 457–502.
Laine, M., Rinne, J. O., Krause, B. J., Teräs, M., and Sipilä, H. (1999). Left
hemisphere activation during processing of morphologically complex
word forms in adults. Neuroscience Letters, 271, 85–88.
Laitman, J. T. and Heimbuch, R. C. (1982). The basicranium of Plio-
Pleistocene hominids as an indicator of their upper respiratory sys-
tems. American Journal of Physical Anthropology, 59, 323–344.
Laitman, J. T., Heimbuch, R. C., and Crelin, E. S. (1978). Developmental
changes in a basicranial line and its relationship to the upper respi-
ratory system in living primates. American Journal of Anatomy, 152,
467–482.
Laitman, J. T., Heimbuch, R. C., and Crelin, E. S. (1979). The basicranium of
fossil hominids as an indicator of their upper respiratory systems.
American Journal of Physical Anthropology, 51, 15–34.
Laitman, J. T., Reidenberg, J. S., Gannon, P. J. et al. (1990). The Kebara hyoid:
What can it tell us about the evolution of the hominid vocal tract?
American Journal of Physical Anthropology, 81, 254.
Lakoff, G. and Johnson, M. (1980). Metaphors We Live By. University of
Chicago Press.
Lambon Ralph, M. A., Sage, K., and Roberts, J. (2000). Classical anomia: A
neuropsychological perspective on speech production. Neuropsychologia,
38, 186–202.
Landau, B. and Jackendoff, R. (1993). “What” and “where” in spatial lan-
guage and spatial cognition. Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 16, 217–265.
Lander, E. and Kruglyak, L. (1995). Genetic dissection of complex traits:
Guidelines for interpreting and reporting linkage results. Nature
Genetics, 11, 241–247.
Langendoen, D. T., Kalish-Landon, N., and Dore, J. (1973). Dative questions:
A study in the relation of acceptability to grammaticality of an English
sentence type. Cognition, 2, 451–477.
Langers, D. R., Backes, W. H., and van Dijk, P. (2007). Representation of
lateralization and tonotopy in primary versus secondary human audi-
tory cortex. NeuroImage, 34 (1), 264–273.
Langner, G., Sams, M., Heil, P., and Schulze, H. (1997). Frequency and
periodicity are represented in orthogonal maps in the human auditory
cortex: Evidence from magnetoencephalography. Journal of
Comparative Physiology A: Neuroethology, Sensory, Neural and Behavioral
Physiology, 181 (6), 665–676.
Laporte, M. N. C. and Zuberbühler, K. (2010). Vocal greeting behaviour in
wild chimpanzee females. Animal Behaviour, 80, 467–473.
References 609
Larson, R. K., Déprez, V., and Yamakido, H. (eds.) (2010). The Evolution of
Human Language: Biolinguistic Perspectives. Cambridge University Press.
Lasnik, H. (2007). Verbal morphology: Syntactic Structures meet the
Minimalist Program. In H. Campos and P. Kempinsky (eds.), Evolution
and Revolution in Linguistic Theory (pp. 251–268). Washington, DC:
Georgetown University Press.
Lau, E. F., Phillips, C., and Poeppel, D. (2008). A cortical network for seman-
tics: (De) constructing the N400. Nature Reviews. Neuroscience, 9,
920–933.
Laurence, S. and Margolis, E. (2001). The poverty of the stimulus argument.
British Journal for the Philosophy of Science, 52 (2), 217–276.
Le May, M. (1975). The language capability of Neandertal man. American
Journal of Physical Anthropology, 42 (1), 9–14.
Leakey, R. E. (1981). The Making of Mankind. New York: E. P. Dutton.
Learmonth, A. E., Nadel, L., and Newcombe, N. S. (2002). Children’s use of
landmarks: Implications for modularity theory. Psychological Science, 13
(4), 337–341.
Leask, S. J. and Crow, T. J. (2001). Word acquisition reflects lateralization of
hand skill. Trends in Cognitive Science, 5, 513–516.
Leboyer, M., Bellivier, F., Nosten-Bertrand, M. et al. (1998). Psychiatric
genetics: Search for phenotypes. Trends in Neuroscience, 21, 102–105.
Legate, J. A. and C. Yang. (2007). Morphosyntactic learning and the develop-
ment of tense. Language Acquisition, 14 (3), 315–344.
Lehtonen, M., Vorobyev, V.A., Hughdal, K., Tuokkola, T., and Laine, M.
(2006). Neural correlates of morphological decomposition in a morpho-
logically rich language: An fMRI study. Brain and Language, 98, 182–193.
LeMay, M. and Geschwind, N. (1975). Hemispheric differences in the brains
of great apes. Brain, Behavior, and Evolution, 11, 48–52.
Lenerz, J. (1977). Zur Abfolge nominaler Satzglieder im Deutschen. Tübingen:
Gunter Narr Verlag.
Lenneberg, E. H. (1962). Understanding language without ability to speak:
A case report. Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology 65, 419–425.
(1967). Biological Foundations of Language. New York: Wiley and Sons.
Leonard, L. (1989). Language learnability and specific language impair-
ment in children. Applied Psycholinguistics, 10, 179–202.
(1998). Children with Specific Language Impairment. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
(2002). Children with Specific Language Impairment. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Leonardo, A., and Fee, M. S. (2005). Ensemble coding of vocal control in
birdsong. Journal of Neuroscience, 25 (3), 652–666.
Lerdahl, F. and Jackendoff, R. (1983). A Generative Theory of Tonal Music.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Leu, T. (2008). The internal syntax of determiners. PhD dissertation,
New York University.
610 References
Levelt, W. J. M. (1989). Speaking: From Intention to Articulation. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
(1992). Accessing words in speech production: Stages, processes and
representations. Cognition, 42, 1–22.
Levelt, W. J. M., Praamstra, P., Meyer, A. S., Helenius, P., and Salmelin, R.
(1998). An MEG study of picture naming. Journal of Cognitive
Neuroscience, 10, 553–567.
Levelt, W. J. M., Roelofs, A., and Meyer, A. S. (1999). A theory of lexical
access in speech production. Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 22, 1–38.
Levelt, W. J. M., Schriefers, H., Voberg, D. et al. (1991). The time course of
lexical access in speech production: A study of picture naming.
Psychological Review, 98, 122–142.
Leventer, R. J., Cardoso, C., Ledbetter, D. H., and Dobyns, W. B. (2001). LIS1
missense mutations cause milder lissencephaly phenotypes including
a child with normal IQ. Neurology, 57, 416–422.
Levinson, S. C. and Jaisson, P. (eds.) (2006). Evolution and Culture. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Levitin, D. J. and Menon, V. (2003). Musical structure is processed in “lan-
guage” areas of the brain: A possible role for Brodmann area 47 in
temporal coherence. NeuroImage, 20, 2142–2152.
Lewicki, M. S. and Konishi, M. (1995). Mechanisms underlying the sensi-
tivity of songbird forebrain neurons to temporal order. Proceedings
of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 92 (12),
5582–5586.
Lewis, R. L. (1996). Interference in short-term memory: The magical num-
ber two (or three) in sentence processing. Journal of Psycholinguistic
Research, 25 (1), 93–115.
Lewis-Williams, D. (2002). The Mind in the Cave. Consciousness and the Origins of
Art. London: Thames and Hudson.
Lewontin, R. (1998). The evolution of cognition: Questions we will never
answer. In D. Scarborough and S. Sternberg (eds.), An Invitation to
Cognitive Science, Vol. IV (pp. 107–132). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Li, G., Wang, J., Rossiter, S. J., Jones, G., and Zhang, S. (2007). Accelerate
FoxP2 evolution in echolocating bats. PLoS ONE, 2 (9), e900.
Li, M. and Vitanyi, P. (1997). An Introduction to Kolmogorov Complexity and Its
Applications. New York: Springer.
Liberman, A. M. (1996). Speech: A Special Code. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Liberman, A. M., Cooper, F. S., Shankweiler, D. P., and Studdert-Kennedy,
M. (1967). Perception of the speech code. Psychological Review, 74 (6),
431–461.
Liberman, A. M., Delattre, P. C., and Cooper, F. S. (1958). Some cues for the
distinction between voiced and voiceless stops in initial position.
Language and Speech, 1 (3), 153–167.
Liberman, A. M. and Mattingly, I. G. (1985). The motor theory of speech
perception revised. Cognition, 21 (1), 1–36.
References 611
Lidz, J. and Gleitman, L. R. (2004). Argument structure and the child’s
contribution to language learning. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 8 (4),
157–161.
Lidz, J., Waxman, S., and Freedman, J. (2003). What infants know about
syntax but couldn’t have learned: Experimental evidence for syntactic
structure at 18 months, Cognition, 89, B65–B73.
Lieberman, D. E. and McCarthy, R. C. (1999). The ontogeny of cranial base
angulation in humans and chimpanzees and its implications for
reconstructing pharyngeal dimensions. Journal of Human Evolution, 36,
487–517.
Lieberman, D. E., McCarthy, R. C., Hiiemae, K. M., and Palmer, J. B. (2001).
Ontogeny of postnatal hyoid and laryngeal descent: Implications for
deglutition and vocalization. Archives of Oral Biology, 46, 117–128.
Lieberman, P. (1968). Primate vocalizations and human linguistic ability.
Journal of the Acoustic Society of America, 44, 1574–1584.
(1984). The Biology and Evolution of Language. Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press.
(1989). Some biological constraints on universal grammar and learnabil-
ity. In M. Rice and R. L. Schiefelbusch (eds.), The Teachability of Language
(pp. 199–225). Baltimore, MD: Paul H. Brookes Pub. Co.
(1991). Uniquely Human. The Evolution of Speech, Thought, and Selfless Behavior.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
(2000). Human Language and Our Reptilian Brain. The Subcortical Bases of
Speech, Syntax and Thought. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
(2002). On the nature and evolution of the neural bases of human
language. American Journal of Physical Anthropology, Suppl 35, 36–62.
(2003). Motor control, speech, and the evolution of human language. In
M. Christiansen and S. Kirby (eds.), Language Evolution (pp. 255–271).
New York: Oxford University Press.
(2006). Toward an Evolutionary Biology of Language. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press.
(2007a). The evolution of human speech. Its anatomical and neural
bases. Current Anthropology, 48 (1), 39–66.
(2007b). Current views on Neanderthal speech capabilities: A reply to
Boë et al. (2002). Journal of Phonetics, 35 (4), 552–563.
Lieberman, P. and Crelin, E. S. (1971). On the speech of Neanderthal man.
Linguistic Inquiry, 2, 203–222.
Lieberman, P., Crelin, E. S., and Klatt, D. H. (1972). Phonetic ability and
related anatomy of the newborn and adult human, Neanderthal
man, and the chimpanzee. American Anthropologist, 74 (3), 287–307.
Lieberman, P., Klatt, D. H., and Wilson, W. H. (1969). Vocal tract limitations
on the vowel repertoires of rhesus monkey and other nonhuman
primates. Science, 164, 1185–1187.
Lieberman, P., Laitman, J. T., Reidenberg, J. S., Landahl, K., and Gannon, P. J.
(1989). Folk physiology and talking hyoids. Nature, 342, 486–487.
612 References
Lightfoot, D. (1989). The child’s trigger experience: degree-0 learnability.
Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 12, 321–334.
(1991). Subjacency and sex. Language and Communication, 11, 67–69.
(1999). The Development of Language. Acquisition, Change, and Evolution.
Oxford: Blackwell.
Linebarger, M. C., Schwartz, M., and Saffran, E. (1983). Sensitivity to gram-
matical structure in so-called agrammatic aphasics. Cognition, 13,
361–393.
Lisker, L. and Abramson, A. (1964). A cross-language study of voicing in
initial stops: Acoustical measurements. Word, 20, 385–422.
Liu, J., Yao, F., Wu, R. et al. (2002). Mediation of the DCC apoptotic signal by
DIP13α. Journal of Biological Chemistry, 277, 26281–26285.
Liu, Q., Dwyer, N. D., and O’Leary, D. D. (2000). Differential expression
of COUP-TFI, CHL1, and two novel genes in developing neocortex
identified by differential display PCR. Journal of Neuroscience, 20 (20),
7682–7690.
Livingstone, M. S., Rosen, G. D., Drislane, F. W., and Galaburda, A. M. (1991).
Physiological and anatomical evidence for a magnocellular defect in
developmental dyslexia. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
USA, 88, 7943–7947.
Lo Nigro, C., Chong, S. S., Smith, A. C. M. et al. (1997). Point mutations and
an intragenic deletion in LIS1, the lissencephaly causative gene in
isolated lissencephaly sequence and Miller-Dieker syndrome. Human
Molecular Genetics, 6, 157–164.
Locke, J. L. (1997). A theory of neurolinguistic development. Brain and
Language, 58, 265–326.
Logan, G. D. (1985). Executive control of thought and action. Acta
Psychologica, 60, 193–210.
Long, M. (1990). Maturational constraints on language development.
Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 12, 251–285.
Longa, V. M. (2008). Una visión crı́tica sobre la noción de “programa gené-
tico” desde la Biologı́a y la Lingüı́stica: consecuencias para la concep-
tualización de la ontogenia del lenguaje [A critical view of the notion
“genetic program” from a biological and linguistic perspective: impli-
cations for a conceptualization of the ontogeny of language]. Verba.
Anuario Galego de Filoloxı́a, 35, 347–385.
(2009). En el origen. Técnica y creatividad en la prehistoria. Ludus Vitalis.
Revista de Filosofı́a de las Ciencias de la Vida, XVII/31, 227–231.
Lorenzo, G. (2001). Comprender a Chomsky. Introducción y comentarios a la
filosofı́a chomskyana sobre el lenguaje y la mente [Understanding Chomsky:
Introduction and Commentaries to Chomskyan Philosophy of Language and
Mind]. Madrid: Antonio Machado Libros.
(2004). Lingüı́stica evolutiva: hacia un enfoque modular e internista
[Evolutionary Linguistics: towards a modular and internist approach].
Ludus Vitalis 12 (22): 153–171.
References 613
Lorenzo, G. and Longa, V. (2003). Minimizing the genes for grammar. The
minimalist program as a biological framework for the study of lan-
guage. Lingua, 113, 643–657.
(2009). El sueño de Jespersen. Diálogos sobre la posición del cambio
lingüı́stico en un modelo de evolución multidimensional. In J. Rafel
Cufı́ (ed.), Diachronic Linguistics (pp. 47–63). Girona: Universitat de
Girona.
Love, T. and Swinney, D. (1996). Co-reference processing and levels of
analysis in object-relative constructions: Demonstration of antece-
dent reactivation with the cross-modal priming paradigm. Journal of
Psycholinguistic Research, 25, 5–24.
Lovegrove, W. J., Bowling, A., Badcock, D., and Blackwood, M. (1980).
Specific reading disability: Differences in contrast sensitivity as a
function of spatial frequency. Science, 210, 439–440.
Luce R. D. (1986). Response Times: Their Role in Inferring Elementary Mental
Organization. New York: Oxford University Press.
Lück, M., Hahne, A., and Clahsen, H. (2006). Brain potentials to morpholog-
ically complex words during listening. Brain Research, 1077, 144–152.
Luck, S. J. (2005). An Introduction to the Event-Related Potential Technique.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Ludwig, K. U., Roeske, D., and Schumacher, J. (2008). Investigation of inter-
action between DCDC2 and KIAA0319 in a large German dyslexia
sample. Journal of Neural Transmission, 115, 1587–1589.
Luk, G., Anderson, J. A. E., Craik, F. I. M., Grady, C., and Bialystok, E. (2010).
Distinct neural correlates for two types of inhibition in bilinguals:
Response inhibition versus interference suppression. Brain and
Cognition, 74, 347–357.
Luke, K.-K., Liu, H.-L., Wai, Y.-Y., Wan, Y.-L., and Tan, L. H. (2002). Functional
anatomy of syntactic and semantic processing in language compre-
hension. Human Brain Mapping, 16, 133–145.
Luo, L., Luk, G., and Bialystok, E. (2010). Effect of language proficiency and
executive control on verbal fluency performance in bilinguals.
Cognition, 114, 29–41.
Luria, A. R. (1973). The Working Brain. New York: Basic.
Luzzatti, C., Mondini, S., and Semenza, C. (2001). Lexical representation
and processing of morphologically complex words: Evidence from the
reading performance of an Italian agrammatic patient. Brain and
Language, 79, 345–359.
Lyon, G., Shaywitz, S., and Shaywitz, B. (2003). A definition of dyslexia.
Annals of Dyslexia, 53, 1–14.
MacMillan, N. A. and Creelman, C. D. (1991). Detection Theory: A User’s Guide.
Cambridge University Press.
MacNeilage, P. F. (1998). The frame/content theory of evolution of speech
production. Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 21, 499–511.
(2008). The Origin of Speech. New York: Oxford University Press.
614 References
Maess, B., Friederici, A. D., Damian, M., Meyer, A. S., and Levelt, W. J. M.
(2002). Semantic category interference in overt picture naming:
Sharpening current density localization by PCA. Journal of Cognitive
Neuroscience, 14, 455–462.
Maess, B., Koelsch, S., Gunter, T. C., and Friederici, A. D. (2001). “Musical
syntax” is processed in Broca’s area: an MEG study. Nature Neuroscience,
4, 540–545.
Magenis, R. E., Toth-Fejel, S., Allen, L. J. et al. (1990). Comparison of the 15q
deletions in Prader-Willi and Angelman syndromes: specific regions,
extent of deletions, parental origin, and clinical consequences.
American Journal of Medical Genetics, 35, 333–349.
Magno, E. (2006). The anterior cingulate and error avoidance. Journal of
Neuroscience, 26 (18), 4769–4773.
Maguire, E. A., Frith, C. D., and Morris, R. G. (1999). The functional neuro-
anatomy of comprehension and memory: The importance of prior
knowledge. Brain, 122, 1839–1850.
Maguire, E. A., Gadian, D. G., Johnsrude, I. S. et al. (2000). Navigation-related
structural changes in the hippocampi of taxi drivers. Proceedings of the
National Academy of America, 97, 4398–4403.
Maher, B. (2008). The case of the missing heritability. Nature, 456, 18–21.
Mahlev, R. W. (1988). Apolipoprotein E: Cholesterol transport protein with
expanding role in cell biology. Science, 240, 622–630.
Mahon, B. Z. and Caramazza, A. (2006). The organisation of conceptual
knowledge in the brain: The future’s past and some future directions.
Cognitive Neuropsychology, 23, 13–38.
Maina, J. N. (2002). Structure, function and evolution of the gas exchang-
ers: Comparative perspectives. Journal of Anatomy, 201 (4), 281–304.
Makin, K., McDonald, B., Nickels, L., Taylor, C., and Moses, M. (2004).
The facilitation of word production in aphasia: What can it do for the
clinician. Acquiring Knowledge in Speech, Language, and Hearing, 6, 90–92.
Makuuchi, M., Bahlmann, J., Anwander, A., and Friederici, A. D. (2009).
Segregating the core computational faculty of human language from
working memory. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 106,
8362–8367.
Manika, S., Varlokosta, S., and Wexler, K. (2011). The lack of omission of
clitics in Greek children with SCI: an experimental study. Proceedings of
BUCLD 35, 427–439.
Manolio, T. A., Collins, F. S. Cox, N. J. et al. (2009). Finding the missing
heritability of complex diseases. Nature, 461, 747–753.
Marangolo, P., Incoccia, C., Pizzamiglio, L. et al. (2003). The right hemi-
sphere involvement in morphologically derived words. Journal of
Cognitive Neuroscience, 15, 364–371.
Marangolo, P. and Piras, F. (2008). Dissociations in processing derivational
morphology: The right basal ganglia involvement. Neuropsychologia, 46,
196–205.
References 615
(2010). Language and its interacting components: The right hemisphere
hypothesis in derivational morphology. Brain Research, 1320, 114–122.
Marangolo, P., Piras, F., Galati, G., and Burani, C. (2006). Functional anat-
omy of derivational morphology. Cortex, 42, 1093–1106.
Marchman, V. A., Wulfeck, B., and Ellis Weismer, S. (1999). Morphological
productivity in children with normal language and SLI: a study of the
English past tense. Journal of Speech, Language, and Hearing Research, 42,
206–219.
Marcus, G. F. (2001). The Algebraic Mind: Integrating Connectionism and Cognitive
Science. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(2004a). Before the word. Nature, 431 (7010), 745.
(2004b). The Birth of the Mind: How A Tiny Number of Genes Creates the
Complexities of Human Thought. New York: Basic Books.
(2006). Cognitive architecture and descent with modification. Cognition,
101, 443–465.
Marcus, G. F. and Fisher, S. E. (2003). FOXP2 in focus: What can genes tell us
about speech and language? Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 7, 257–262.
Margoliash, D., and Konishi, M. (1985). Auditory representation of autoge-
nous song in the song system of white-crowned sparrows. Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences USA, 82 (17), 5997.
Margoliash, D. and Nusbaum, H. C. (2009). Language: the perspective from
organismal biology. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 13 (12), 505–510.
Margulies, E. H., Kardia, S. L., and Innis, J. W. (2001). A comparative
molecular analysis of developing mouse forelimbs and hindlimbs
using serial analysis of gene expression (sage). Genome Research, 11
(10), 1686–1698.
Mariën, P., Abutalebi, J., Engelborghs, S., and De Deyn, P. (2005).
Pathophysiology of language switching and mixing in an early bilin-
gual child with subcortical aphasia. Neurocase, 11 385–398.
Marigo, V., Roberts, D. J., Lee, S. M. K. et al. (1995). Cloning, expression, and
chromosomal location of SHH and IHH: Two human homologues of
the Drosophila segment polarity gene hedgehog. Genomics, 28, 44–51.
Marinis, T. (2007). On-line processing of passives in L1 and L2 children. In
A. Belikova, L. Meroni, and M. Umeda (eds.), Proceedings of the 2nd
Conference on Generative Approaches to Language Acquisition North America
(GALANA) (pp. 265–276). Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Proceedings
Project.
Marinis, T., Roberts, L., Felser C., and Clahsen, H. (2005). Gaps in second
language sentence processing. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 27
(1), 53–78.
Markson, L. and Bloom, P. (1997). Evidence against a dedicated system for
word learning in children. Nature, 385, 813–815.
Marler, P. (2000). Origins of music and speech: Insights from animals. In
N. L. Wallin, B. Merker, and S. Brown (eds.), The Origins of Music
(pp. 31–48). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
616 References
Marler, P. and Peters, S. (1981). Birdsong and speech: Evidence for special
processing. Perspectives on the Study of Speech, 75–112.
Marr, D. (1977). Artificial Intelligence: A Personal View. Artificial Intelligence,
9, 37–48.
(1982). Vision: A Computational Investigation into the Human Representation and
Processing of Visual Information. San Francisco, CA: W. H. Freeman and Co.
Marsden, C. D. and Obeso, J. A. (1994). The functions of the basal ganglia
and the paradox of sterotaxic surgery in Parkinson’s disease. Brain,
117, 877–897.
Marshack, A. (1991). The Roots of Civilization. Mt. Kisko, NY: Moyer Bell.
Marshall, J. C. and Newcombe, F. (1973). Patterns of paralexia: A psycholin-
guistic approach. Journal of Psycholinguistic Research, 2, 175–199.
Marslen-Wilson, W. D. (1975). Sentence perception as an interactive paral-
lel process. Science, 189, 226–228.
Martin A. and Chao L. L. (2001). Semantic memory and the brain: structure
and processes. Current Opinion in Neurobiology, 11, 194–201.
Martin, A. E. and McElree, B. (2008). A content-addressable pointer mech-
anism underlies comprehension of verb-phrase ellipsis. Journal of
Memory and Language, 58, 879–906.
(2009). Memory operations that support language comprehension:
Evidence from verb-phrase ellipsis. Journal of Experimental Psychology:
Learning, Memory and Cognition, 35, 1231–1239.
Martin, R. C. (2003). Language processing: functional organization and
neuroanatomical basis. Annual Review of Psychology, 54, 55–89.
Martin, R. C., Breedin, S. D., and Damian, M. F. (1999). The relation of
phoneme discrimination, lexical access, and short-term memory: A
case study and interactive account. Brain and Language, 70, 437–482.
Martin-Rhee, M. M. and Bialystok, E. (2008). The development of two types
of inhibitory control in monolingual and bilingual children.
Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 11 (1), 81–93.
Martı́nez, I. and Arsuaga, J. L. (2009). El origen del lenguaje: la evidencia
paleontológica. Munibe Antropologia-Arkeologia, 60, 5–16.
Martı́nez, I., Quam, R., Rosa, M. et al. (2008). Auditory capacities of human
fossils: a new approach to the origin of speech. Proceedings of the
Conference Acoustics ’08 Paris, 4177–4182.
Martı́nez, I., Rosa, M., Arsuaga, J. L. et al. (2004). Auditory capacities in
Middle Pleistocene humans from the Sierra de Atapuerca in Spain.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America,
101 (27), 9976–9981.
Mason, R. A., Just, M. A., Keller, T. A., and Carpenter, P. A. (2003). Ambiguity
in the brain: what brain imaging reveals about the processing of
syntactically ambiguous sentences. Journal of Experimental Psychology:
Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 29, 1319–1338.
Masterson, J. (2000). Developmental surface dyslexia. In E. Funnell (ed.),
Neuropsychology of Reading (pp. 123–148). Hove: Psychology Press.
References 617
Matsunaga, E. and Okanoya, K. (2008). Expression analysis of cadherins in
the songbird brain: Relationship to vocal system development. The
Journal of Comparative Neurology, 508, 329–342.
Matsunaga, E., Suzuki, K., Kato, S., Kurotani, T., Kobayashi, K., and
Okanoya, K. (2011). Dynamic expression of cadherins regulates vocal
development in a song bird. PLoS ONE, 6, e25272.
Mattick, J. S. and Gagen, M. J. (2001). The evolution of controlled multi-
tasked gene networks: The role of introns and other noncoding RNAs
in the development of complex organisms. Molecular Biology and
Evolution, 18, 1611–1630.
Mattys, S. L. and Jusczyk, P. W. (2001). Phonotactic cues for segmentation of
fluent speech by infants. Cognition, 78, 91–121.
Mayley, G. (1996). Landscapes, learning costs, and genetic assimiliation,
Evolutionary Computation, 4 (3), 213–234.
Mazoyer, B. M., Dehaene, S., Tzourio, N. et al. (1993). The cortical represen-
tation of speech. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 4, 467–479.
McArthur, G. M. and Bishop, D. V. M. (2001). Auditory perceptual process-
ing in people with reading and oral language impairments: Current
issues and recommendations. Dyslexia, 7, 150–170.
McBrearty, S. and Brooks, A. S. (2000). The revolution that wasn’t: a new
interpretation of the origin of modern human behavior. Journal of
Human Evolution, 39, 453–563.
McCarthy, J. J. (1988). Feature geometry and dependency: A review.
Phonetica, 45 (1), 84–108.
McCarthy, R. and Warrington, E. K. (1985). Category specificity in an
agrammatic patient: The relative impairment of verb retrieval and
comprehension. Neuropsychologia, 23, 709–727.
McCracken, J. T., Smalley, S. L., McGough, J. J. et al. (2000). Evidence for
linkage of a tandem duplication polymorphism upstream of the dop-
amine D4 receptor gene (DRD4) with attention deficit hyperactivity
disorder (ADHD). Molecular Psychiatry, 5, 531–536.
McDonald, B., Makin, K., Nickels, L., Moses, M., and Taylor, C. (2006). Does
repetition improve word retrieval in speakers with aphasia? Brain
impairment: Abstracts from Aphasiology Symposium of Australia, 7, 269.
McElree, B. (1993). The locus of lexical preference effects in sentence
comprehension: A time-course analysis. Journal of Memory and
Language, 32, 536–571.
(1996). Accessing short-term memory with semantic and phonological
information: A time-course analysis. Memory and Cognition, 24 (2), 173–87.
(1998). Attended and nonattended states in working memory: Accessing
categorized structures. Journal of Memory and Language, 38, 225–52.
(2001). Working memory and focal attention. Journal of Experimental
Psychology: Learning, Memory and Cognition, 27, 817–35.
(2006). Accessing recent events. The Psychology of Learning and Motivation,
46 (6), 155–200.
618 References
McElree, B. and Dosher, B. A. (1989). Serial position and set size in short-
term memory: The time course of recognition. Journal of Experimental
Psychology: General, 118, 346–73.
(1993). Serial retrieval processes in the recovery of order information.
Journal of Experimental Psychology: General, 122, 291–315.
McElree, B., Foraker, S., and Dyer, L. (2003). Memory structures that
subserve sentence comprehension. Journal of Memory and Language,
48 (1), 67–91.
McElree, B. and Griffith, T. (1995). Syntactic and thematic processing in
sentence comprehension: Evidence for a temporal dissociation. Journal
of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 21, 134–157.
(1998). Structural and lexical constraints on filling gaps during sentence
processing: A time-course analysis. Journal of Experimental Psychology:
Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 24, 432–460.
McFarland, D. (1991). Defining motivation and cognition in animals.
International Studies in the Philosophy of Science, 5.
McGeogh, J. A. (1936). Studies in retroactive inhibition: VII. Retroactive
inhibition as a function of the length and frequency of presentation
of the interpolated lists. Journal of Experimental Phonology, 19, 674–693.
(1942). The Psychology of Human Learning. New York: Longmans, Green.
McGinn, C. (1993). The Limits of Inquiry. Oxford: Blackwell.
McGrath, L. M., Smith, S. D., and Pennington, B. F. (2006). Breakthroughs
in the search for dyslexia candidate genes. Trends in Molecular Medicine,
12, 333–341.
McGregor, K. K. (1994). Use of phonological information in a word-finding
treatment for children. Journal of Speech Hearing and Language Research,
37, 1381–1393.
(1997). The nature of word-finding errors of preschoolers with and with-
out word-finding deficits. Journal of Speech Hearing and Language Research,
40, 1232–1244.
McGregor, K. K., Friedman, R. M., Reilly, R. M., and Newman, R. M. (2002).
Semantic representation and naming in young children. Journal of
Speech, Language, and Hearing Research, 45, 332–346.
McGrew, W. (1992). Chimpanzee Material Culture: Implications for Human
Evolution. Cambridge University Press.
McKinney, M.L. (2000). Evolving behavioral complexity by extending devel-
opment. In S.T. Parker, J. Langer, and M. L. McKinney (eds.), Biology,
Brains, and Behavior. The Evolution of Human Development (pp. 25–40).
Santa Fe and Oxford: School of American Research Press/James Currey.
McKinnon, R., Allen, M., and Osterhout, L. (2003). Morphological decom-
position involving non-productive morphemes: ERP evidence.
Neuroreport, 14, 883–886.
McMahon, L. (1963). Grammatical analysis as part of understanding a
sentence. PhD dissertation. Harvard University.
Medeiros, D. (2012). Economy of command. PhD, University of Arizona.
References 619
Medeiros, D. P. (2008). Optimal growth in phrase structure. Biolinguistics
2 (2–3), 152–195.
Medina, T. N., Trueswell, J., Snedeker, J., and Gleitman, L. R. (2011). How
words can and cannot be learned by observation. Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences, 108, 9014–9019.
Meisel, J. M. (2004). The bilingual child. In T. K. Bhatia and W. C. Ritchie
(eds.), The Handbook of Bilingualism (pp. 91–113). Oxford: Blackwell.
(2008). Child second language acquisition or successive first language
acquisition? In B. Haznedar and E. Gavruseva (eds.), Current Trends
in Child Second Language Acquisition: A Generative Perspective (pp. 55–80).
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
(2009). Second language acquisition in early childhood. Zeitschrift für
Sprachwissenschaft, 28, 5–34.
(2011). First and Second Language Acquisition: Parallels and Differences.
Cambridge University Press.
Meister, I. G., Wilson, S. M., Deblieck, C., Wu, A. D., and Iacoboni, M. (2007).
The essential role of premotor cortex in speech perception. Current
Biology, 17, 1692–1696.
Mekel-Bobrov, N., Gilbert, S. L., Evans, P. D. et al. (2005). Ongoing adaptive
evolution of ASPM, a brain size determinant in Homo sapiens. Science,
309, 1720–1722.
Mekel-Bobrov, N., Posthuma, D., Gilbert, S. L. et al. (2007). The ongoing
adaptive evolution of ASPM and Microcephalin is not explained by
increased intelligence. Human Molecular Genetics, 16, 600–608.
Mellars, P. (1989). Major issues in the emergence of modern humans.
Current Anthropology, 30, 349–385.
(1994). The Upper Palaeolithic revolution. In B. Cunliffe (ed.), Oxford
Illustrated Prehistory of Europe (pp. 42–78). Oxford University Press.
(1996a). Symbolism, language, and the Neanderthal mind. In P. Mellars
and K. R. Gibson (eds.), Modelling the Early Human Mind (pp. 15–32).
Cambridge: McDonald Institute for Archaeological Research.
(1996b). The Neanderthal Legacy: An Archaeological Perspective from Western
Europe. Princeton University Press.
(1998). Neanderthals, modern humans and the archaeological evidence
for language. In N. Jablonski and L. C. Aiello (eds.), The Origin and
Diversification of Language (pp. 89–115). San Francisco, CA: California
Academy of Sciences.
(2002). Archaeology and the origins of modern humans: European and
African perspectives. In T. J. Crow (ed.), The Speciation of Modern Homo
Sapiens (pp. 31–47). Oxford University Press.
(2005). The impossible coincidence. A single-species model for the ori-
gins of modern human behavior. Evolutionary Anthropology, 14, 12–27.
(2010). Neanderthal symbolism and ornament manufacture: The burst-
ing of a bubble? Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA 107
(47), 20147–20148.
620 References
Mellars, P. and Stringer, C. (eds.) (1989). The Human Revolution: Behavioral and
Biological Perspectives on the Origins of Modern Humans. Edinburgh
University Press.
Meng, H., Smith, S. D., Hager, K. et al. (2005). DCDC2 is associated with
reading disability and modulates neural development in the brain.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA, 102, 17053–17058.
Menzel, C. R. (1991). Cognitive aspects of foraging in Japanese monkeys.
Animal Behaviour, 41, 397–402.
Mercer, A., Ronnholm, H., Holmberg, J. et al. (2004). PACAP promotes
neural stem cell proliferation in adult mouse brain. Journal of
Neuroscience Research, 76, 205–215.
Merinero, B., Perez-Cerda, C., Font, L. M. et al. (1995). Variable clinical and
biochemical presentation of seven Spanish cases with glutaryl-CoA-
dehydrogenase deficiency. Neuropediatrics, 26, 238–242.
Merriman, W. and Tomasello, M. (1995). Introduction: Verbs are words too.
In M. Tomasello and W. E. Merriman (eds.), Beyond Names for Things
(pp. 1–18). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Mersad, K. and Nazzi, T. (2010). When Mommy comes to the rescue of
statistics. Paper presented at the 17th Biennal Meeting of the
International Society for Infant Studies, Baltimore, MD, March 10–14.
Meteyard, L., Cuadrado, S. R., Bahrami, B., and Vigliocco, G. (2010). Coming
of age: a review of embodiment and the neuroscience of semantics.
Cortex, doi:10.1016/j.cortex.2010.11.002.
Meyer, A. S. (1992). Investigation of phonological encoding through speech
error analyses: Achievements, limitations, and alternatives. Cognition,
42, 181–211.
Meyer, D. E., Abrams, R. A., Kornblum, S. et al. (1988). Optimality in human
motor performance: Ideal control of rapid aimed movements.
Psychological Review, 95 (3), 340–370.
Miceli, G., Amitrano, A., Cappaso, R., and Caramazza, A. (1996). The treat-
ment of anomia resulting from output lexicon damage: Analysis of
two cases. Brain and Language, 52, 150–174.
Miceli, G., Silveri, M. C., Villa, G., and Caramazza, A. (1984). On the basis of
the agrammatics’ difficulty in producing main verbs. Cortex, 20,
207–220.
Miceli, G., Silveri, M., Nocentini, U., and Caramazza, A. (1988). Patterns of
dissociation in comprehension and production of nouns and verbs.
Aphasiology, 2, 351–358.
Mielke, J. (2008). The Emergence of Distinctive Features. Oxford University
Press.
Miikkulainen, R. (1993). Subsymbolic Natural Language Processing. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Mikhail, John (2010). Elements of Moral Cognition: Rawls’ Linguistic Analogy and
the Cognitive Science of Moral and Legal Judgment. Cambridge University
Press.
References 621
Miller, C., Kail, R., Leonard, L., and Tomblin, B. (2001). Speed of processing
in children with specific language impairment. Journal of Speech,
Language and Hearing Research, 44, 416–433.
Miller, G. A. (1956). The magical number seven, plus or minus two: Some
limits on our capacity for processing information. Psychological Review,
63, 81–97.
(1962). Some psychological studies of grammar. American Psychologist, 17,
784–762.
Miller, G. A. and Chomsky, N. (1963). Finitary models of language users. In
R. Luce, R. Bush, and E. Galanter (eds.), Handbook of Mathematical
Psychology, Vol II (pp. 419–491). New York: Wiley and Sons.
Miller, G. A. and McKean, K. (1964). A chronometric study of some rela-
tions between sentences. Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology,
16, 297–308.
Miller, G. F. (1997). Mate choice: From sexual cues to cognitive adaptations.
In G. Cardew (ed.), Characterizing Human Psychological Adaptations, Ciba
Foundation Symposium 208 (pp. 71–87). New York: Wiley.
(2000). The Mating Mind: How Sexual Choice Shaped the Evolution of Human
Nature. New York: Doubleday Books.
Millotte, S., Frauenfelder, U. H., and Christophe, A. (2007). Phrasal prosody
constrains lexical access. Paper presented at the 13th Annual
Conference on Architectures and Mechanisms for Language
Processing, Turku, Finland, August, 24–27.
Millotte, S., Morgan, J., Margules, S. et al. (2010). Phrasal prosody constrains
word segmentation in French 16-month-olds. Journal of Portuguese
Linguistics, 9, 67–86.
Millotte, S., René, A., Wales, R., and Christophe, A. (2008). Phonological
phrase boundaries constrain the on-line syntactic analysis of spoken
sentences. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning Memory and
Cognition, 34, 874–885.
Millotte, S., Wales, R., and Christophe, A. (2007). Phrasal prosody disam-
biguates syntax. Language and Cognitive Processes, 22, 898–909.
Millotte, S., Wales, R., Dupoux, E., and Christophe, A. (2006). Can prosodic
cues and function words guide syntactic processing and acquisition?
In R. Hoffmann and H. Mixdorff (eds.), Speech Prosody: 3rd International
Conference (pp. 399–402). Dresden: TUD Press.
Minelli, A. (2007). Forme del Divenire, Torino: Einaudi (English version, Forms
of Becoming: The Evolutionary Biology of Development. Princeton University
Press, 2009).
Mirković, J., Seidenberg, M.S., and Joanisse, M. F. (2011). Rules vs. Statistics:
Insights from a highly inflected language. Cognitive Science, 35, 638–681.
Mitani, J. C. (1992). Singing behavior of male gibbons: Field observations
and experiments. In T. Nishida, W. McGrew, P. Marler, M. Pickford,
and F. DeWaal (eds.), Topics in Primatology (pp. 199–210). University of
Tokyo Press.
622 References
Mithen, S. (1996). The Prehistory of the Mind. A Search for the Origins of Art,
Religion, and Science. London: Thames and Hudson.
(2005). The Singing Neanderthals: The Origin of Language, Music, Body and Mind.
London: Weidenfeld and Nicolson.
(2007a). How the evolution of the human mind might be reconstructed.
In S. W. Gangestad and J. A. Simpson (eds.), The Evolution of Mind.
Fundamental Questions and Controversies (pp. 60–66). New York and
London: The Guilford Press.
(2007b). General intellectual ability. In S. W. Gangestad and J. A. Simpson
(eds.), The Evolution of Mind. Fundamental Questions and Controversies
(pp. 319–324). London: The Guilford Press.
Mitterer, H. and Blomert, L. (2003). Coping with phonological assimilation
in speech perception: Evidence for early compensation. Perception and
Psychophysics, 65 (6), 956–969.
Mohr, J. P., Pessin, M. S., and Finkelstein, S. (1978). Broca’s aphasia:
Pathological and clinical. Neurology, 28, 311–324.
Monahan, C. M. (1996). New zooarchaeological data from Bed II, Olduvai
Gorge, Tanzania: implications for hominid behavior in the early
Pleistocene. Journal of Human Evolution, 31, 93–128.
Monahan, P. J., Hwang, S.-O., and Idsardi, W. J. (2008). Neural correlates of
voicing mismatch in obstruent consonant clusters using MEG. Poster
presented at Society for Neuroscience. Washington, DC: November
15–19.
Monchi, O., Petrides, P., Petre, V., Worsley, K., and Dagher, A. (2001).
Wisconsin Card Sorting revisited: Distinct neural circuits participat-
ing in different stages of the task identified by eventrelated functional
magnetic resonance imaging. Journal of Neuroscience, 21, 7733–7741.
Monjauze, C., Tuller, L., Hommet, C., Barthez, M. A., and Khomsi, A. (2005).
Language in benign childhood epilepsy with centro-temporal spikes
abbreviated form: Rolandic epilepsy and language. Brain and Language,
92, 300–308.
Monsell, S.(1987).Ontherelationbetweenlexicalinput andoutput pathways
for speech. In A. Allport, D. MacKay, W. Prinz, and E. Scheerer (eds.),
Language Perception and Production (pp. 273–311). London: Academic Press.
Montague, R. (1970). Universal grammar. Theoria, 36, 373–398.
Mooney, R. (2004). Synaptic mechanisms for auditory-vocal integration
and the correction of vocal errors. Annals of the New York Academy of
Sciences, 1016 (1), 476–494.
(2009). Neurobiology of song learning. Current Opinion in Neurobiology,
19 (6), 654–660.
Moore, B. C. J. (1989). An Introduction to the Psychology of Hearing. 3rd edn.
London: Academic Press.
Morgan, M. J. and M. C. Corballis (1978). On the biological basis of human
laterality: II. The mechanism of inheritance. Behavioral and Brain
Sciences 2, 270–277.
References 623
Morisaka, T., Katahira, K., and Okanoya, K. (2008). Variability in preference
for conspecific songs with syntactical complexity in female Bengalese
Finches: Towards an understanding of song evolution. Ornithological
Science, 7 (1), 75–84.
Moro, A. (2008). The Boundaries of Babel: The Brain and the Enigma of Impossible
Languages. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Moro, A., Tettamanti, M., Perani, D. et al. (2001). Syntax and the brain:
Disentangling grammar by selective anomalies. NeuroImage, 13, 110–118.
Morris, C. (1938). Foundations of the theory of signs. In O. Neurath (ed.),
International Encyclopedia of Unified Science (pp. 77–138). Chicago:
University of Chicago Press.
Morris, C. A. and Mervis, C. B. (2000). Williams syndrome and related dis-
orders. Annual Review of Genomics and Human Genetics, 1, 461–484.
Morris, J. and Holcomb, P. (2005). Event-related potentials to violations of
inflectional verb morphology in English. Cognitive Brain Research, 25,
963–981.
Morton, J. B. and Harper, S. N. (2007). What did Simon say? Revisiting the
bilingual advantage. Developmental Science, 10 (6), 719–726.
Mottonen, R. and Watkins, K. E. (2009). Motor representations of articula-
tors contribute to categorical perception of speech sounds. Journal of
Neuroscience, 29 (31), 9819–9825.
Mueller, J. L., Hahne, A., Fujii, Y., and Friederici, A. D. (2005). Native and
nonnative speakers’ processing of a miniature version of Japanese as
revealed by ERPs. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 17, 1229–1244.
Mueller, J. L., Hirotani, M., and Friederici, A. D. (2007). ERP evidence for
different strategies in the processing of case markers in native speak-
ers and non-native learners. BMC Neuroscience, 8, 18.
Mukhopadhyay, M., Pelka, P., and DeSousa, D. (2002). Cloning, genomic
organization and expression pattern of a novel Drosophila gene, the
disco-interacting protein 2 (dip2) and its murine homolog. Gene, 293,
59–65.
Mulcahy, N. J., and Call, J. (2006). Apes save tools for future use. Science, 312,
1038–1040.
Müller, G. (1999). Optimality, markedness and word order in German.
Linguistics, 37, 777–818.
Müller, R.-A. and Basho, S. (2004). Are nonlinguistic functions in “Broca’s
area” prerequisites for language acquisition? FMRI findings from an
ontogenetic viewpoint. Brain and Language, 329–336).
Müller, R.-A., Behen, M. E., Rothermel, R. D. et al. (1999). Brain organization
for language in children, adolescents, and adults with left hemisphere
lesion: A PET study. Progress in Neuropsychopharmacology and Biological
Psychiatry, 23, 657–668.
Müller, R.-A., Kleinhans, N., and Courchesne, E. (2003). Linguistic theory
and neuroimaging evidence: An fMRI study of Broca’s area in lexical
semantics. Neuropsychologia, 41, 1199–1207.
624 References
Mummery, C. J., Patterson, K., Hodges, J. R., and Price, C. J. (1998).
Functional neuroanatomy of the semantic system: Divisible by
what? Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 10, 766–777.
Munnich, E., Landau, B., and Dosher, B. A. (2001). Spatial language and
spatial representation: A cross-linguistic comparison. Cognition, 81 (3),
171–207.
Münte, T. F., Matzke, M., and Johannes, S. (1997). Brain activity associated
with syntactic incongruencies in words and pseudo-words. Journal of
Cognitive Neuroscience, 9, 318–329.
Münte, T. F., Rodriguez-Fornells, A., and Kutas, M. (1999a). One, two or
many mechanisms? The brain’s processing of complex words.
Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 22, 131–132.
Münte, T. F., Say, T., Clahsen, H., Schiltz, K., and Kutas, M. (1999b).
Decomposition of morphologically complex words in English: Evidence
from event-related brain potentials. Cognitive Brain Research, 7, 241–253.
Murdock, B. B. (1982). A theory for the storage and retrieval of item and
associative information. Psychological Review, 89, 609–626.
Musso, M., Moro, A., Glauche, V. et al. (2003). Broca’s area and the language
instinct. Nature Neuroscience, 6 (7), 774–781.
Myers, J. (2009a). Syntactic judgment experiments. Language and Linguistics
Compass, 3 (1), 406–423.
(2009b). The design and analysis of small-scale syntactic judgment
experiments. Lingua, 119, 425–444.
Näätänen, R. (1992). Attention and Brain Function. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
(2001). The perception of speech sounds by the human brain as reflected
by the mismatch negativity (MMN) and its magnetic equivalent
(MMNm). Psychophysiology, 38 (1), 1–21.
Näätänen, R. and Alho, K. (1995). Generators of electrical and magnetic
mismatch responses in humans. Brain Topography, 7 (4), 315–320.
Näätänen, R., Jacobsen, T., and Winkler, I. (2005). Memory-based or affer-
ent processes in mismatch negativity (MMN): A review of the evidence.
Psychophysiology, 42 (1), 25–32.
Näätänen, R., Lehtokoski, A., Lennes, M. et al. (1997). Language-specific
phoneme representations revealed by electric and magnetic brain
responses. Nature, 385 (6615), 432–434.
Näätänen, R., Lehtokoski, A., Lennes, M. et al. (1997). Anatomic localization
and quantitative analysis of gradient refocused echo-planar fMRI sus-
ceptibility artifacts. NeuroImage, 6, 156–67.
Näätänen, R., Paavilainen, P., Rinne, T., and Alho, K. (2007). The mismatch
negativity (MMN) in basic research of central auditory processing: A
review. Clinical Neurophysiology, 118 (12), 2544–2590.
Nadel, L. (1999). Down syndrome in cognitive neuroscience perspec-
tive. Neurodevelopmental disorders. In H. Tager-Flusberg (ed.),
Neurodevelopmental disorders: Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience
(pp. 197–221). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
References 625
Nairne, J. S. (2006). Modeling distinctiveness: Implications for several
memory theory. In R. R. Hunt and J. B. Worthen (eds.), Distinctiveness
and Memory (pp. 27–46). Oxford University Press.
Nathaniel-James, D. A. and Frith, C. D. (2002). The role of the dorsolateral
prefrontal cortex: Evidence from the effects of contextual constraint
in a sentence completion task. NeuroImage, 16, 1094–1102.
Nazzi, T., Iakimova, I., Bertoncini, J., Frédonie, S., and Alcantara, C. (2006).
Early segmentation of fluent speech by infants acquiring French:
Emerging evidence for crosslinguistic differences. Journal of Memory
and Language, 54, 283–299.
Nazzi, T., Nelson, D. G. K., Jusczyk, P. W., and Jusczyk, A. M. (2000). Six-
month-olds’ detection of clauses embedded in continuous speech:
effects of prosodic well-formedness. Infancy, 1, 123–147.
Negus, V. E. (1949). The Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of the Larynx.
New York: Hafner.
Nelson, C. A. (1995). The ontogeny of human memory: A cognitive neuro-
science perspective. Developmental Psychology, 31, 723–738.
Nelson, K. (1973). Structure and strategy in learning to talk. Monographs of
the Society for Research in Child DeveIopment, 38, 1–2.
Nespor, M. and Vogel, I. (1986). Prosodic Phonology. Dordrecht: Foris.
Neville, H. J., Nicol, J., Barss, A., Forster, K., and Garrett, M. F. (1991).
Syntactically based sentence processing classes: Evidence from
event-related potentials. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 6, 233–255.
Nevins, A., Dillon, B., Malhotra, S., and Phillips, C. (2007). The role of
feature-number and feature-type in processing Hindi verb agreement
violations. Brain Research, 1164, 81–94.
Newbury, D. F., Fisher, S. E., and Monaco, A. P. (2010). Recent advances in
the genetics of language impairment. Genome Medicine, 2, 6.
Newbury, D. F. and Monaco, A. P. (2002). Molecular genetics of speech and
language disorders. Current Opinions in Pediatrics, 14, 679–701.
Newcombe, F. and Marshall, J. C. (1981). On psycholinguistic classifications
of the acquired dyslexias. Bulletin of the Orton Society, 31, 29–46.
(1984). Varieties of acquired dyslexia: A linguistic approach. Seminars in
Neurology, 4, 181–195.
(1985). Reading and writing by letter sounds. In K. E. Patterson,
J. C. Marshall, and M. Coltheart (eds.), Surface Dyslexia: Cognitive and
Neuropsychological Studies of Phonological Reading (pp. 15–34). London:
Erlbaum.
Newman, S. D., Just, M. A., Keller, T. A., Roth, J., and Carpenter, P. A. (2003).
Differential effects of syntactic and semantic processing on the sub-
regions of Broca’s area. Cognitive Brain Research, 16, 297–307.
Newmeyer, F. J. (1983). Grammatical Theory: Its Limits and Its Possibilities.
University of Chicago Press.
(1991). Functional explanation in linguistics and the origins of language.
Language and Communication, 11, 3–28.
626 References
(2005). Possible and Probable Languages: A Generative Perspective on Linguistic
Typology. Oxford University Press.
(1997). Genetic dysphasia and linguistic theory. Journal of Neurolinguistics,
10, 47–73.
(2007). Commentary on Sam Featherston, “Data in generative grammar:
The stick and the carrot.” Theoretical Linguistics, 33 (3), 395–399.
Newport, E., Gleitman, H., and Gleitman, L. (1977). Mother, I’d rather do it
myself. Some effects and non-effects of maternal speech style. In
C. E. Snow and C. A. Ferguson. (eds.), Talking to Children (pp. 109–150).
New York: Cambridge University Press.
Nichols, J. (1992). Linguistic Diversity in Space and Time. University of Chicago
Press.
(1997). Modeling ancient population structures and movement in
Linguistics. Annual Review of Anthropology, 26, 359–384.
Nickels, L. A. (1995). Getting it right: Using aphasic naming errors to eval-
uate theoretical models of spoken word recognition. Language and
Cognitive Processes, 10, 13–45.
(1997). Spoken Word Production and Its Breakdown in Aphasia. Hove:
Psychology Press.
(2002). Therapy for naming disorders: Revisiting, revising, and review-
ing. Aphasiology, 16, 935–979.
Nickels, L. A. and Howard, D. (1994). A frequent occurrence: Factors affect-
ing the production of semantic errors in aphasic naming. Cognitive
Neuropsychology, 11, 289–320.
Nickels, N., Howard, D., and Best, W. (1997). Fractionating the articulatory
loop: Dissociations and associations in phonological recoding in apha-
sia. Brain and Language, 56, 161–182.
Nicol, J. and Swinney, D. (1989). The role of structure in coreference assign-
ment during sentence comprehension. Journal of Psycholinguistic
Research, 18, 5–19.
Nicolson, R. I. and Fawcett, A. J. (2006). Do cerebellar deficits underlie
phonological problems in dyslexia? Developmental Science, 9, 259–262.
Nieuwland, M. S., Martin, A., and Carreiras, M. (in press). Brain regions that
process case: Evidence from Basque. Human Brain Mapping.
doi:10.1002/hbm.21377.
Nieuwland, M. S., Petersson, K. M., and Van Berkum, J. J. A. (2007). On sense
and reference: Examining the functional neuroanatomy of referential
processing. NeuroImage, 37 (3), 993–1004.
Nishikawa, J., Okada, M., and Okanoya, K. (2008). Population coding of
song element sequence in the Bengalese finch HVC. European Journal of
Neuroscience, 27 (12), 3273–3283.
Niyogi, P. (2006). The Computational Nature of Language Learning and Evolution.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Niyogi, P. and Berwick, R. (1996). A language learning model for finite
parameter spaces. Cognition, 61, 161–193.
References 627
Noble, J. (1999). Cooperation, conflict and the evolution of communica-
tion. Adaptive behavior, 7 (3/4), 349–370.
Nobre, A. C. and Plunkett, K. (1997). The neural system of language: struc-
ture and development. Current Opinion in Neurobiology, 7, 262–266.
Nopola-Hemmi, J., Myllyluoma, B., and Haltia, T. (2001). A dominant gene
for developmental dyslexia on chromosome 3. Journal of Medical
Genetics, 38, 658–664.
Norbury, C. F. (1995). Barking up the wrong tree? Lexical ambiguity reso-
lution in children with language impairments and autistic spectrum
disorders. Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 90, 142–171.
Norris, D., McQueen, J. M., and Cutler, A. (1995). Competition and segmen-
tation in spoken word recognition. Journal of Experimental Psychology:
Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 21, 1209–1228.
Norris, R. (2000). Acquisition of the T and C system in clausal comple-
ments. MS thesis, MIT.
Novick, J.M., Trueswell, J. C., and Thompson-Schill, S.L. (2005). Cognitive
control and parsing: Reexamining the role of Broca’s area in sentence
comprehension. Cognitive, Affective and Behavioral Neuroscience, 5, 263–281.
Novick, J. M., Trueswell, J. C., and Thompson-Schill, S. L. (2010). Broca’s
area and language processing: evidence for the cognitive control con-
nection. Language and Linguistics Compass, 4, 906–924.
Novogrodsky, R., Kreiser, V., and Friedmann, N. (2010). The heterogeneity
within the lexical deficit in SLI. Presented at the 31st annual Symposium
on Research in Child Language Disorders, Madison, Wisconsin.
Nowak, M. A., Komarova, N. L., and P. Niyogi (2002). Computational and
evolutionary aspects of language. Nature, 417, 611–617.
Nowicki, S., Peters, S., and Podos, J. (1998). Song learning, early nutrition
and sexual selection in songbirds. Integrative and Comparative Biology,
38 (1), 179–190.
Nunez, P. L. (1981). Electric Fields of the Brain. New York: Oxford University
Press.
O’Connor, N. and Hermelin, B. (1994). Two autistic savant readers. Journal of
Autism and Developmental Disorders, 24, 501–515.
O’Connell, J. F. and Allen, J. (2007). Pre-LGM Sahul (Pleistocene Australia-
New Guinea) and the archaeology of early modern humans. In
P. Mellars, K. Boyle, O. Bar-Yosef, and C. Stringer (eds.), Rethinking the
Human Revolution: New Behavioural and Biological Perspectives on the Origin
and Dispersal of Modern Humans (pp. 395–410). Cambridge: McDonald
Institute for Archaeological Research.
O’Donnell, T. J., Hauser, M. D., and Fitch, W. T. (2005). Using mathematical
models of language experimentally. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 9 (6),
284–289.
Oberauer, K. (2002). Access to information in working memory: exploring
the focus of attention. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning,
Memory and Cognition, 28, 411–21.
628 References
(2006). Is the focus of attention in working memory expanded through
practice? Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory and
Cognition, 32, 197–214.
Oberauer, K. and Lewandowsky, S. (2008). Forgetting in mediate serial recall:
Decay, temporal distinctiveness, or interference? Psychological Review,
115, 544–576.
Obleser, J., Boecker, H., and Drzezga, A. (2006). Vowel sound extrac-
tion in anterior superior temporal cortex. Human Brain Mapping,
27, 562–671.
Obleser, J., Lahiri, A., and Eulitz, C. (2003). Auditory-evoked magnetic field
codes place of articulation in timing and topography around 100
milliseconds post syllable onset. NeuroImage, 20, 1839–1847.
Obleser, J., Lahiri, A., and Eulitz, C. (2004). Magnetic brain response mirrors
extraction of phonological features from spoken vowels. Journal of
Cognitive Neuroscience, 16 (1), 31–39.
Odling-Smee, F. J., Laland, K. N., and Feldman, M. W. (2003). Niche
Construction: The Neglected Process in Evolution. Princeton University Press.
Ojemann, J. G., Akbudak, E., Snyder, A. Z. et al. (1997). Anatomic localiza-
tion and quantitative analysis of gradient refocused echo-planar fmri
susceptibility artifacts. NeuroImage, 6(3), 156–167.
Okanoya, K. (2002). Sexual display as a syntactical vehicle: The evolution of
syntax in birdsong and human language through sexual selection. In
A. Wray (ed.), The Transition to Language (pp. 46–63). New York: Oxford
University Press.
(2004a). The Bengalese finch: A window on the behavioral neurobiology
of birdsong syntax. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, 1016 (1),
724–735.
(2004b). Song syntax in Bengalese finches: Proximate and ultimate
analyses. Advances in the Study of Behaviour, 34, 297–346.
(2007). Language evolution and an emergent property. Current Opinion in
Neurobiology, 17 (2), 271–276.
Okanoya, K. and Takashima, A. (1997). Auditory preference of the female as
a factor directing the evolution of Bengalese finch songs. Trans. Tech.
Comm. Psychol. Physiol. Acoust, 27 (81), 1–6.
Okanoya, K., Ikebuchi, M., Uno, H., and Watanabe, S. (2001). Left-side
dominance for song discrimination in Bengalese finches (Lonchura
striata var. domestica). Animal Cognition, 4 (3–4), 241–245.
Oldham, M. C., Horvath, S., and Geschwind, D. H. (2006). Conservation and
evolution of gene coexpression networks in human and chimpanzee
brains. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA, 103,
17973–17978.
Oliphant, M. (1996). The dilemma of Saussurean communication.
Biosystems, 37 (1–2), 31–38.
Ölveczky, B. P. and Gardner, T. J. (2011). A bird’s eye view of neural circuit
formation. Current Opinion in Neurobiology, 21, 124–131.
References 629
Onifer, W. and Swinney, D. (1981). Accessing lexical ambiguities during
sentence comprehension: Effects of frequency-of-meaning and con-
textual bias. Memory and Cognition, 9, 225–236.
Osterhout, L. and Holcomb, P. (1992). Event-related brain potentials elicited
by syntactic anomaly. Journal of Memory and Language, 31, 785–806.
Osterhout, L. and Nicol, J. (1999). On the distinctiveness, independence,
and time course of the brain response to syntactic and semantic
anomalies. Language and Cognitive Processes, 14, 283–317.
Ouattara, K., Lemasson, A., and Zuberbühler, K. (2009a). Campbell’s mon-
keys use affixation to alter call meaning. PLoS One, 4, e7808.
Ouattara, K., Lemasson, A., and Zuberbühler, K. (2009b). Wild Campbell’s
monkeys concatenate vocalizations into context-specific call sequences.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America,
106, 22026–22031.
Oudeyer, P-Y. (2006). Self-Organization in the Evolution of Speech. Oxford
University Press.
Owen, A. M. (1997). The functional organization of working memory pro-
cesses within human lateral frontal cortex: The contribution of func-
tional neuroimaging. European Journal of Neuroscience, 9, 1329–1339.
Owen, R. (1843). Lectures on the Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of the
Invertebrate Animals. London: Longman, Brown, Green and Longmans.
(1848). On the Archetype and Homologies of the Vertebrate Skeleton. London:
John Van Voorst.
Oyama, S. (2000). The Ontogeny of Information. Developmental Systems and
Evolution. Durham, NC: Duke University Press.
Oyama, S., Griffiths, P. E., and Gray, R. D. (eds.) (2001). Cycles of Contingency.
Developmental Systems and Evolution. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Öztekin, I. and McElree, B. (2007). Retrieval dynamics of proactive inter-
ference: PI slows retrieval by eliminating fast assessments of familiar-
ity. Journal of Memory and Language, 57, 126–149.
Öztekin, I., McElree, B., Staresina, B. P., and Davichi, L. (2008). Working
memory retrieval: Contributions of left prefrontal cortex, left poste-
rior parietal cortex and hippocampus. Journal of Experimental Psychology:
General, 138, 64–87.
Pakulak, E. and Neville, H. J. (2010). Proficiency differences in syntactic
processing of monolingual native speakers indexed by event-related
potentials. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 22, 2728–2744.
Pallier, C., Devauchelle, A. D., and Dehaene, S. (2011). Cortical representa-
tion of the constituent structure of sentences. Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences, 108 (6), 2522–2527.
Palmer, S. (1999). Vision Science: From Photons to Phenomenology. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Palumbo, C. L., Alexander M. P., and Naeser, M. A. (1992). CT scan lesion
sites associated with conduction aphasia. In S. E. Kohn, (ed.),
Conduction Aphasia (pp. 51–75). Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
630 References
Pandya, D. N. (1995). Anatomy of the auditory cortex. Revue Neurologique,
151, 486–494.
Pantev, C., Hoke, M., Lutkenhoner, B., and Lehnertz, K. (1989). Tonotopic
organization of the auditory cortex: Pitch versus frequency represen-
tation. Science, 246 (4929), 486–488.
Papworth, S., Böse, A.-S., Barker, J., and Zuberbühler, K. (2008). Male blue
monkeys alarm call in response to danger experienced by others.
Biology Letters, 4, 472–475.
Paracchini, S., Thomas, A., Castro, S. et al. (2006). The chromosome 6p22
haplotype associated with dyslexia reduces the expression of
KIAA0319, a novel gene involved in neural migration. Human
Molecular Genetics, 15: 1659–1666.
Parker, S. T. and McKinney, M. L. (1999). Origins of Intelligence. The Evolution of
Cognitive Development in Monkeys, Apes, and Humans. Baltimore, MD: The
Johns Hopkins University Press.
Parsons, T. (1990). Events in the Semantics of English: A Study of Subatomic
Semantics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Partee, B. H. and Rooth, M. (1983). Generalized conjunction and type ambi-
guity. In R. Bäuerle, C. Schwarze, and A. von Stechow (eds.), Meaning,
Use, and Interpretation of Language (pp. 361–383). Berlin: Walter de
Gruyter.
Pate, D. S., Saffran, E. M., and Martin, N. (1987). Specifying the nature of the
production impairment in a conduction aphasic: A case study.
Language and Cognitive Processes, 2, 43–84.
Patel, A. D. (2003). Language, music, syntax and the brain. Nature
Neuroscience, 6, 674–681.
(2008). Music, Language, and the Brain. New York: Oxford University
Press.
Patel, A. D., Gibson, E., Ratner, J., Besson, M., and Holcomb, P. (1998).
Processing syntactic relations in language and music: An event-related
potential study. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 10, 717–733.
Patterson, K. and Shewell, C. (1987). Speak and spell: Dissociation and
word-class effects. In M. Coltheart, R. Job, and G. Sartori (eds.), The
Cognitive Neuropsychology of Language (pp. 273–294). Hove: Erlbaum.
Patthy, L. (2003). Modular assembly of genes and the evolution of new
functions. Genetica, 118 (2–3), 217–231.
Paulesu, E., Demonet, J.-F., Fazio, F. et al. (2001). Dyslexia: Cultural diversity
and biological unity. Science, 291, 2165–2167.
Pearl, L. (2007). Necessary bias in natural language learning. Unpublished
PhD dissertation, University of Maryland, College Park.
(2008). Putting the emphasis on unambiguous: The feasibility of data
filtering for learning English metrical phonology. In H. Chan, H. Jacob,
and E. Kapia (eds.), BUCLD 32: Proceedings of the 32nd Annual Boston
University Conference on Child Language Development (pp. 390–401).
Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
References 631
(2009). Learning English metrical phonology: When probability distri-
butions are not enough. In J. Crawford, K. Otaki, and M. Takahashi
(eds.), Proceedings of the 3rd Conference on Generative Approaches to Language
Acquisition North America (GALANA 2008) (pp. 200–211). Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla Press.
(2011). When unbiased probabilistic learning is not enough: Acquiring
a parametric system of metrical phonology. Language Acquisition, 18
(2), 87–120.
Pearl, L. and Lidz, J. (2009). When domain-general learning fails and when
it succeeds: Identifying the contribution of domain-specificity.
Language Learning and Development, 5 (4), 235–265.
Pearl, L., Goldwater, S., and Steyvers, M. (2010). How ideal are we?
Incorporating human limitations into Bayesian models of word seg-
mentation. BUCLD 34: Proceedings of the 34th Annual Boston University
Conference on Child Language Development (pp. 315–326). Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla Press, 315–326.
(2011). Online learning mechanisms for Bayesian models of word seg-
mentation. Research on Language and Computation, 8(2), 107–132.
Pearl, L. and Mis, B. (2011). How far can indirect evidence take us?
Anpahoric one revisited. In L. Carlson, C. Hölscher, and T. Shipley
(eds.), Proceedings of the 33rd Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science
Society (pp. 879–894). Austin, TX: Cognitive Science Society.
Pearl, L. and Weinberg, A. (2007). Input filtering in syntactic acquisition:
Answers from language change modeling. Language Learning and
Development, 3 (1), 43–72.
Pearlmutter, N. J., Garnsey, S. M., and Bock, K. (1999). Agreement pro-
cesses in sentence comprehension. Journal of Memory and Language,
456, 427–456.
Pelucchi, B., Hay, J.F., and Saffran, J. R. (2009). Statistical learning in a
natural language by 8-month-old infants. Child Development, 80, 674–685.
Peña-Meilán, A., Rosas, A., Garcı́a-Tabernero, A., Bastir, M., and De la
Rasilla, M. (2011). Paleoneurology of two new neandertal occipitals
from El Sidrón (Asturias, Spain) in the context of homo endocranial
evolution. The Anatomical Record: Advances in Integrative and Evolutionary
Biology, 294 (8), 1370–1381.
Penfield, W. and Roberts, L. (1959). Speech and Brain Mechanisms. New York:
Athenaeum.
Penke, M., Weyerts, H., Gross, M. et al. (1997). How the brain processes
complex words: An event-related potential study of German verb
inflections. Cognitive Brain Research, 6, 37–52.
Pennington, B. F. (1994). The working memory function of the prefrontal
cortices: Implications for developmental and individual differences in
cognition. In M. M. Haith, J. Benson, R. Roberts, and B. F. Pennington
(eds.), Future-oriented Processes in Development (pp. 243–289). University
of Chicago Press.
632 References
Peressotti, F. and Grainger, J. (1995). Letter position coding in random
consonant arrays. Perception and Psychophysics, 37, 875–890.
Peretz, I. and Coltheart, M. (2003). Modularity of music processing. Nature
Neuroscience, 6 (7), 688–691.
Peretz, I., Kolinsky, R., Tramo, M. et al. (1994). Functional dissociations
following bilateral lesions of auditory cortex. Brain, 117 (6), 1283–
1301.
Perfors, A., Tenenbaum, J., and Regier, T. (2006). Poverty of the stimulus? A
rational approach. In R. Sun and N. Miyake (eds.), Proceedings of the 28th
Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society (pp. 663–668). Austin, TX:
Cognitive Science Society.
(2011). The learnability of abstract syntactic principles. Cognition, 118,
306–338.
Perfors, A., Tenenbaum, J., and Wonnacott, E. (2010). Variability, negative
evidence, and the acquisition of verb argument constructions. Journal
of Child Language, 37, 607–642.
Perruchet, P. and Rey, A. (2005). Does the mastery of center-embedded
linguistic structures distinguish humans from nonhuman primates.
Psychonomic Bulletin and Review, 12, 307–313.
Petersen, S. E., Fox, P. T., Posner, M. I., Mintun, M., and Raichle, M. E. (1988).
Positron emission tomographic studies of the cortical anatomy of
single-word processing. Nature, 331 (6157), 585–9.
(1989). Positron emission tomographic studies of the processing of singe
words. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 1 (2), 153–170.
Petersson, K. M., Folia, V., and Hagoort, P. (2010). What artificial grammar
learning reveals about the neurobiology of syntax. Brain and Language,
doi: 10.1016/j.bandl.2010.08.003.
Petrides, M. and Pandya, D. N. (1999). Dorsolateral prefrontal cortex:
Comparative cytoarchitectonic analysis in human and macaque
brain and cortico-cortical connection patterns. European Journal of
Neuroscience, 11, 1011–1036.
(2001). Comparative cytoarchitectonic analysis of the human and
the macaque ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and corticocortical
connection patterns in the monkey. European Journal of Neuroscience
16: 291–310.
Pfeiffer, J. E. (1982). The Creative Explosion: An Inquiry into the Origins of Art and
Religion. New York: Harper and Row.
Phillips, C. (1996). Order and structure. Unpublished doctoral dissertation,
MIT.
(2001). Levels of representation in the electrophysiology of speech per-
ception. Cognitive Science, 25 (5), 711–731.
(2003). Linear order and constituency. Linguistic Inquiry, 34, 37–90.
(2009). Should we impeach armchair linguists? In S. Iwasaki, H. Hoji,
P. Clancy, and S.-O. Sohn (eds.), Japanese/Korean Linguistics 17 (pp. 49–72).
Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications.
References 633
(2011). Some arguments and non-arguments for reductionist accounts of
syntactic phenomena. Language and Cognitive Processes, doi: 10.1080/
01690965.2010.530960.
Phillips, C., Kazanina, N., and Abada, S. H. (2005). ERP effects of the pro-
cessing of syntactic long-distance dependencies. Cognitive Brain
Research, 22, 407–428.
Phillips, C. and Lasnik, H. (2003). Linguistics and empirical evidence: Reply
to Edelman and Christiansen. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 7, 61–62.
Phillips, C., Pellathy, T., Marantz, A. et al. (2000). Auditory cortex accesses
phonological categories: an MEG mismatch study. Journal of Cognitive
Neuroscience, 12 (6), 1038–1055.
Phillips, C., Wagers, M. W., and Lau, E. F. (2011). Grammatical illusions and
selective fallibility in real-time language comprehension. In J.T.
Runner (ed.), Experiments at the Interfaces (pp. 147–180). Bingley:
Emerald.
Piatigorsky, J. and Z. Kozmik (2004). Cubozoan jellyfish: an Evo/Devo
model for eyes and other sensory systems. International Journal of
Developmental Biology, 48, 719–729.
Piattelli-Palmarini, M. (1974). A Debate on Bio-linguistics, Endicott House,
Dedham, MA (May 20–21, 1974). Paris: Centre Royaumont pour une
Science de l’Homme.
(ed.) (1980). Language and Learning: The Debate Between Jean Piaget and Noam
Chomsky. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
(1994). Ever since language and learning: Afterthoughts on the Piaget-
Chomsky debate. Cognition, 50, 315–346.
Piattelli-Palmarini, M. and Uriagereka, J. (2005). The evolution of the nar-
row faculty of language: the skeptical view and a reasonable conjec-
ture. Lingue e Linguaggio, 4(1), 27–79.
(2008). Still a bridge too far? Biolinguistic questions for grounding lan-
guage on brains. Physics of Life Reviews, 5, 207–224.
(2011). A geneticist’s dream, a linguist’s nightmare: The case of FOXP2.
In A. M. Di Sciullo and C. Boeckx (eds.), The Biolinguistic Enterprise: New
Perspectives on the Evolution and Nature of the Human Language Faculty
(pp. 100–125). Oxford University Press.
Piattelli-Palmarini, M., Uriagereka, J., and Salaburu, P. (eds.) (2009). Of Minds
and Language: A Dialogue with Noam Chomsky in the Basque Country. New
York: Oxford University Press.
Pick, A. (1913). Die agrammatischen Sprachstörungen. Berlin: Springer Verlag.
Pickles, J. O. (1988). An Introduction to the Physiology of Hearing, 2nd edn.
London: Academic Press.
Pierce, A. (1992). Language Acquisition and Syntactic Theory: A comparative
Analysis of French and English Child Grammars. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Pierrehumbert, J. (2002). Word-specific phonetics. In C. Gussenhoven and
N. Warner (eds.), Laboratory Phonology VII (pp. 101–139). Berlin: Mouton
de Gruyter.
634 References
Pietroski, P. (2002). Function and concatenation. In G. Preyer and G. Peters
(eds.), Logical Form and Language. New York: Oxford University Press.
(2004). Events and Semantic Architecture. New York: Oxford University
Press.
(2006). Interpreting concatenation and concatenates. Philosophical Issues,
16, 221–45.
Pigliucci, M. (2009). An extended synthesis for evolutionary biology? Annals
of the New York Academy of Sciences, 1168 (The Year in Evolutionary
Biology 2009), 218–228.
Pinker, S. (1989). Learnability and Cognition: The Acquisition of Argument
Structure. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(1994). The Language Instinct. New York: William Morrow and Company.
(1997). How the Mind Works. New York: Norton.
(1998). Words and rules. Lingua, 106, 219–242.
Pinker, S. and Bloom, P. (1990). Natural language and natural selection.
Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 13, 707–784.
Pinker, S. and Jackendoff, R. (2005). The faculty of language: What’s special
about it? Cognition, 95, 201–236.
Pinker, S. and Prince, A. (1988). On language and connectionism: Analysis
of a parallel distributed processing model of language acquisition.
Cognition, 28, 73–193.
(1994). Regular and irregular morphology and the psychological status
of rules of grammar. In S. D. Lima, R. L. Corrigan, and G. K. Iverson
(eds.), The Reality of Linguistic Rules (pp. 321–351). Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Plaitakis, A., Spanaki, C., Mastorodemos, V., and Zaganas, I. (2003). Study of
structure-function relationships in human glutamate dehydrogenases
reveals novel molecular mechanisms for the regulation of the
nerve tissue-specific (GLUD2) isoenzyme. Neurochemistry International,
43, 401–410.
Plaut, D. C. (1997). Structure and function in the lexical system: Insights
from distributed models of word reading and lexical decision.
Language and Cognitive Processes, 12, 765–805.
Plaut, D. C. and Gonnerman, L. M. (2000). Are non-semantic morphological
effects incompatible with a distributed connectionist approach to
lexical processing? Language and Cognitive Processes, 15, 445–485.
Plunkett, K. and Marchman, V. (1993). From rote learning to system build-
ing: Acquiring verb morphology in children and connectionist nets.
Cognition, 48, 21–69.
Pocklington, A. J., Cumiskey, M., Armstrong, J. D., and Grant, S. G. (2006).
The proteomes of neurotransmitter receptor complexes form modu-
lar networks with distributed functionality underlying plasticity and
behaviour. Molecular Systems Biology, 2, 2006.0023.
Poelmans, G,. Engelen, J. J., Van Lent-Albrechts, J. et al. (2009). Identification
of novel dyslexia candidate genes through the analysis of a
References 635
chromosomal deletion. American Journal of Medical Genetics Part B:
Neuropsychiatric Genetics, 150B, 140–147.
Poeppel, D. (1996). A critical review of PET studies of phonological process-
ing Brain and Language, 55 (3), 317–351; discussion 352–385.
(2001). Pure word deafness and the bilateral processing of the speech
code. Cognitive Science, 21, 679–693.
(2003). The analysis of speech in different temporal integration win-
dows: cerebral lateralization as “asymmetric sampling in time.”
Speech Communication, 41, 245–255.
Poeppel, D. and Embick, D. (2005). The relation between linguistics and
neuroscience. In A. Cutler (ed.), Twenty-First Century Psycholinguistics:
Four Cornerstones (pp. 103–120). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Poeppel, D. and Hickok, G. (2004). Towards a new functional anatomy of
language. Cognition, 92 (1–2), 1–12.
Poeppel, D., Idsardi, W. J., and van Wassenhove, V. (2008). Speech percep-
tion at the interface of neurobiology and linguistics. Philosophical
Transactions of the Royal Society of London. Series B, Biological Sciences, 363
(1493), 1071–1086.
Poeppel, D. and Monahan, P. J. (2011). Feedforward and feedback in speech
perception: Revisiting analysis by synthesis. Language and Cognitive
Processes, 26 (7), 935–951.
Poliak, S., Gollan, L., Martinez, R. et al. (1999). Caspr2, a new member of the
neurexin superfamily, is localized at the juxtaparanodes of myeli-
nated axons and associates with K+ channels. Neuron, 24, 1037–1047.
Pollard, C. and Sag, I. (1994). Head-driven Phrase Structure Grammar.
University of Chicago Press.
Ponting, C. and Jackson, A. P. (2005). Evolution of primary microcephaly
genes and the enlargement of primate brains. Current Opinion in Genetics
and Development, 15, 241–248.
Postal, P. M. (1974). On Raising. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Potkin, S. G., Turner, J. A., Guffanti, G. et al. (2009). Genome-wide strat-
egies for discovering genetic influences on cognition and cognitive
disorders: Methodological considerations. Cognitive Neuropsychiatry,
14 (4–5), 391–418.
Potter, M. C. (1988). Rapid serial visual presentation (RSVP): A method for
studying language processing. In D. E. Kieras and M. A. Just (eds.), New
Methods in Reading Comprehension Research (pp. 91–118). Hillsdale, NJ:
Lawrence Erlbaum.
Poulin-Dubois, D., Blaye, A., Coutya, J., and Bialystok, E. (2011). The effects
of bilingualism on toddlers’ executive functioning. Journal of
Experimental Child Psychology, 108, 567–579.
Poulisse, N. and Bongaerts, T. (1994). First language use in second language
production. Applied Linguistics, 15, 36–57.
Povinelli, D. J. and Giambrone, S. (2001). Reasoning about beliefs: a human
specialization? Child Development, 72 (3), 691–695.
636 References
Prasad, C., Prasad, A. N., Chodirker, B.N. et al. (2000). Genetic evaluation of
pervasive developmental disorders: The terminal 22q13 deletion syn-
drome may represent a recognizable phenotype. Clinical Genetics, 57,
103–109.
Prather, J. F., Peters, S., Nowicki, S., and Mooney, R. (2008). Precise audi-
tory–vocal mirroring in neurons for learned vocal communication.
Nature, 451 (7176), 305–310.
Preißler, A.-K. (2011). Subject clitics in child L2 acquisition of French. In
E. Rinke and T. Kupisch (eds.), The Development of Grammar: Language
Acquisition and Diachronic Change (pp. 75–103). Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Preuss, T. M. (2000). Taking the measure of diversity: Comparative alter-
natives to the model-animal paradigm in cortical neuroscience. Brain,
Behavior and Evolution, 55 (6), 287–299.
Preuss, T. M. and Goldman-Rakic, P. S. (1991a). Architectonics of the parie-
tal and temporal association cortex in the strepsirhine primate Galago
compared to the anthropoid primate Macaca. Journal of Comparative
Neurology, 310, 475–506.
(1991b). Ipsilateral cortical connections of granular frontal cortex in the
strepsirhine primate Galago, with comparative comments on anthro-
poid primates. Journal of Comparative Neurology, 310, 507–549.
Prevost, P. (1997). Truncation in second language acquisition. Doctoral
dissertation, McGill University.
Prevost, P. and L. White (1999). Finiteness and variability in SLA: More
evidence for missing surface inflection. BUCLD, 23, 575–586.
Price, C. J. (2010). The anatomy of language: A review of 100 fMRI studies
published in 2009. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, 1191, 62–88.
Price, C. J. and Devlin, J. T. (2003). The myth of the visual word form area.
Neuroimage, 19, 145–159.
Prince, A. and Smolensky, P. (2004). Optimality Theory: Constraint Interaction in
Generative Grammar. Malden, MA: Wiley-Blackwell.
Prior, A. and Gollan, T. H. (2011). Good language-switchers are good task-
switchers: Evidence from Spanish-English and Mandarin-English
bilinguals. Journal of International Neuropsychological Society, 17, 1–10.
Prior, A. and MacWhinney, B. (2010). A bilingual advantage in task switch-
ing. Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 13 (2), 253–262.
Pritchett, B. and Whitman, J. (1993). Grammatical and perceptual complex-
ity: The DTC in current syntax. Ms. Carnegie Mellon University and
Cornell University.
Proctor, R. N. (2007). Material metaphors. Review of Origins and Revolutions:
Human Identity in Earliest Prehistory by Clive Gamble. Nature, 448,
752–753.
Ptak, S., Enard, W., Wiebe, V. et al. (2009). Linkage disequilibrium extends
across putative selected sites in FOXP2. Molecular Biology and Evolution,
26 (10), 2181–2184.
References 637
Pullum, G. K. and Scholz, B. C. (2002). Empirical assessment of stimulus
poverty arguments. The Linguistic Review, 19, 9–50.
Pulvermüller, F. and Fadiga, L. (2010). Active perception: sensorimotor
circuits as a cortical basis for language. Nature Reviews Neuroscience,
11, 351–360.
Pulvermüller, F. and Shtyrov, Y. (2006). Language outside the focus of
attention: the mismatch negativity as a tool for studying higher cog-
nitive processes. Progress in Neurobiology, 79 (1), 49–71.
Purvis, K. L. and Tannock, R. (1997). Language abilities in children with
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, reading disabilities, and nor-
mal controls. Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 25, 133–144.
Pustejovsky, J. (1995). The Generative Lexicon. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Pylkkänen, L. (2008). Mismatching meanings in brain and behavior.
Language and Linguistics Compass, 2 (4), 712–738.
Pylkkänen, L. and McElree, B. (2006). The syntax-semantic interface: On-
line composition of sentence meaning. In M. Traxler and
M. A. Gernsbacher (eds.), Handbook of Psycholinguistics, 2nd edn.
(pp. 537–577). New York: Elsevier.
(2007). An MEG study of silent meaning. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience,
19, 1905–1921.
Pylkkänen, L., Martin, A. E., McElree, B., and Smart, A. (2009). The anterior
midline field: Coercion or decision making? Brain and Language, 108,
184–190.
Pylkkänen, L., Oliveri, B., and Smart, A. (2009). Semantics vs. world knowl-
edge in prefrontal cortex. Language and Cognitive Processes, 24, 1313–1334.
Quine, W. V. O. (1960). Word and Object. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Raaijmakers, J. G. W. (2003). A further look at the “language-as-fixed-effect
fallacy.” Canadian Journal of Experimental Psychology, 57 (3), 141–151.
Rabaglia, C. D. and Salthouse, T. A. (2011). Natural and constrained lan-
guage production as a function of age and cognitive abilities. Language
and Cognitive Processes, 26 (10), 1505–1531.
Raber, J., Huang, Y., and Ashford, J. W. (2004). ApoE genotype accounts for
the vast majority of AD risk and AD pathology. Neurobiology of Aging, 25,
641–650.
Radford, A., Atkinson, M., Britain, D., Clahsen, H., and Spencer, A. (2009).
Linguistics: An Introduction. Cambridge University Press.
Raff, R. A. (2000). Evo-devo: the evolution of a new discipline. Nature Reviews
Genetics, 1 (1), 74–79.
Raichle, M. E. (1998). Behind the scenes of functional brain imaging: a
historical and physiological perspective. Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences USA, 95 (3), 765–772.
Rakic, P. and Kornack, D. R. (2001). Neocortical expansion and elaboration
during primate evolution: A view from neurobiology. In D. Falk and
K. R. Gibson (eds.), Evolutionary Anatomy of the Primate Cerebral Cortex
(pp. 30–56). Cambridge University Press.
638 References
Rameau, J.-P. (1737). Génération Harmonique, ou Traité de Musique Théorique et
Pratique. Paris: Prault Fils.
Ramón y Cajal, S., DeFelipe, J., and Jones, E. G. (1988). Cajal on the Cerebral
Cortex: An Annotated Translation of the Complete Writings. New York:
Oxford University Press.
Ramsay, M. (2000). Communication genes clustered on 7q31. Molecular
Medicine Today 6: 380–381.
Ramscar, M. (2002). The role of meaning in inflection: Why the past tense
does not require a rule. Cognitive Psychology, 45, 45–94.
Ramus, F. (2004). Neurobiology of dyslexia: A reinterpretation of the data.
Trends in Neuroscience, 27 (12), 720–726.
(2006). Genes, brain, and cognition: a roadmap for the cognitive scien-
tist. Cognition, 101, 247–269.
Rapin, I. and Allen, D. A. (1983). Developmental language disorders:
Nosologic considerations. In U. Kirk (ed.), Neuropsychology of
Language, Reading and Spelling. New York: Academic Press,
pp. 155–184.
Ratcliff, R. (1978). A theory of memory retrieval. Psychological Review, 85,
59–108.
(1988). A note on the mimicking of additive reaction time models. Journal
of Mathematical Psychology, 21, 178–184.
(2006). Modeling response signal and response time data. Cognitive
Psychology, 53, 195–237.
Raymer, A. M., Thompson, C. K., Jackobs, B., and Le Grand, H. R. (1993).
Phonological treatment of naming deficits in aphasia: Model-based
generalization analysis. Aphasiology, 7, 27–53.
Rayner, K. (1998). Eye movements in reading and information processing:
20 years of research. Psychological Bulletin, 124, 372–422.
Reber, A. S. and Anderson, J. R. (1970). The perception of clicks in linguistic
and nonlinguistic messages. Attention, Perception, and Psychophysics, 8 (2),
81–89.
Redies, C. and Puelles, L. (2001). Modularity in vertebrate brain develop-
ment and evolution. Bioessays, 23 (12), 1100–1111.
Reed, A. (1973). Speed-accuracy trade-off in recognition memory. Science,
181 (4099), 574–576.
(1976). List length and the time course of recognition in immediate
memory. Cognition, 4 (1), 16–30.
Regier, T. and Gahl, S. (2004). Learning the unlearnable: the role of missing
evidence. Cognition, 93, 147–155.
Reiner, A., Perkel, D. J., Bruce, L. L. et al. (2004). Revised nomenclature for
avian telencephalon and some related brainstem nuclei. Journal of
Comparative Neurology, 473 (3), 377–414.
Reiner, O., Carrozzo, R., Shen, Y. et al. (1993). Isolation of a Miller-Dieker
lissencephaly gene containing G protein beta-subunit-like repeats.
Nature, 364, 717–721.
References 639
Renfrew, C. and Morley, I. (eds.) (2009). Becoming Human. Innovation in
Prehistoric Material and Spiritual Culture. Cambridge University Press.
Restall, R. (1996). Munias and Mannikins. Mountfield: Pica Press.
Reuland, E. J. (2011). Anaphora and Language Design. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Reynolds, V. (2005). The Chimpanzees of the Budongo Forest: Ecology, Behaviour,
and Conservation. Oxford University Press.
Rice, M. L. (2000). Grammatical symptoms of specific language impair-
ment. In D. V. M. Bishop and L. B. Leonard (eds.), Speech and Language
Impairments in Children: Causes, Characteristics, Intervention and Outcome
(pp. 17–34). Hove: Psychology Press.
Rice, M. L., Haney, K. R., and Wexler, K. (1998). Family histories of children
with SLI who show extended optional infinitives. Journal of Speech,
Language and Hearing Research, 41, 419–432.
Rice, M. L., Hoffman, L., and Wexler, K. (2009). Judgments of omitted BE
and DO in questions as extended finiteness clinical markers of specific
language impairment (SLI) to 15 years: A study of growth and asymp-
tote. Journal of Speech, Language and Hearing Research, 52(6), 1417–1433.
Rice, M. L. and Wexler, K. (1996). Toward tense as a clinical marker of
specific language impairment in English-speaking children. Journal of
Speech, Language and Hearing Research, 39, 1239–1257.
(2001). Rice/Wexler Test of Early Grammatical Impairment. San Antonio, TX:
Psychological Corporation.
Rice, M. L., Wexler, K., and Cleave, P. L. (1995). Specific language impair-
ment as a period of extended optional infinitive. Journal of Speech,
Language and Hearing Research, 38(4), 850–863.
Rice, M., Wexler, K., and Hershberger, S. (1998). Tense over time: The
longitudinal course of tense acquisition in children with specific
language impairment. Journal of Speech, Language and Hearing
Research, 41, 1412–1431.
Richards, N. (1999). Dependency formation and directionality of tree con-
struction. In V. Lin, C. Krause, B. Bruening, and K. Arregi (eds.), Papers
on Morphology and Syntax, Cycle Two (MIT Working Papers in Linguistics 34)
(pp. 67–105). Cambridge, MA: MITWPL.
Richerson, P. J. and Boyd, R. (2004). The Nature of Cultures. University of
Chicago Press.
Riparbelli, M. G., Callaini, G., Glover, D. M., and Avides, M. d .C. (2002). A
requirement for the abnormal spindle protein to organise microtu-
bules of the central spindle for cytokinesis in Drosophila. Journal of Cell
Science, 115, 913–922.
Rips, L. J. and Medin, D. L. (2005). Concepts, categories, and semantic mem-
ory. In K. Holyoak and R. Morrison (eds.), Cambridge Handbook of
Thinking and Reasoning (pp. 37–72). Cambridge University Press.
Risch, N. and Merikangas, K. R. (1996). The future of genetic studies of
complex human diseases. Science, 273, 1516–1517.
640 References
Ritchie, G. R. S. and Kirby, S. (2007). A possible role for selective masking in
the evolution of complex, learned communication systems. In
C. Lyon, C. Nehaniv, and A. Cangelosi (eds.), Emergence of
Communication and Language (pp. 387–401), Berlin: Springer.
Ritter, W., Paavilainen, P., Lavikainen, J. et al. (1992). Event-related potentials
to repetition and change of auditory stimuli. Electroencephalography and
Clinical Neurophysiology, 83 (5), 306–321.
Ritter, W. and Ruchkin, D. S. (1992). A review of event-related potential
components discovered in the context of studying P3. Annals of the New
York Academy of Sciences, 658, 1–32.
Rizzi, L. (1982). Issues in Italian Syntax. Dordrecht: Foris.
Rizzi, L. (ed.) (2004). The Structure of CP and IP: The Cartography of Syntactic
Structures, Vol. II. New York: Oxford University Press.
Rizzolatti, G. and Arbib, M. A. (1998). Language within our grasp. Trends in
Neurosciences, 21, 188–194.
Rizzolatti, G. and Craighero, L. (2004). The Mirror-Neuron System. Annual
Review of Neuroscience, 27 (1), 169–192.
Roberts, T. (1997). Evidence for the optional tense hypothesis: tense in
subordinate clauses in the acquisition of English. Unpublished ms.,
MIT.
Robinson, W. P., Bottani, A., Yagang, X. et al. (1991). Molecular, cytogenetic,
and clinical investigations of Prader-Willi syndrome patients. American
Journal of Human Genetics, 49, 1219–1234.
Rodd, J. M., Davis, M. H., and Johnsrude, I. S. (2005). The neural mecha-
nisms of speech comprehension: fMRI studies of semantic ambiguity.
Cerebral Cortex 15, 1261–1269.
Röder, B., Stock, O., Neville, H., Bien, S., and Rösler, F. (2002). Brain activa-
tion modulated by the comprehension of normal and pseudo-word
sentences of different processing demands: A functional magnetic
resonance imaging study. Neuroimage, 15, 1003–1014.
Rodriguez-Fornells, A., Clahsen, H., Lleó, C., Zaake, W., and Münte, T. F.
(2001). Event-related brain responses to morphological violations in
Catalan. Cognitive Brain Research, 11, 47–58.
Rodriguez-Fornells, A., Münte, T. F., and Clahsen, H. (2002). Morphological
priming in Spanish verb forms: An ERP repetition priming study.
Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 14, 443–454.
Roehm, D., Bornkessel, I., Haider, H., and Schlesewsky, M. (2005). When case
meets agreement: Event-related potential effects for morphology-based
conflict resolution in human language comprehension. Neuroreport, 16,
875–878.
Roelink, H., Augsburger, A., Heemskerk, J. et al. (1994). Floor plate and
motor neuron induction by vhh-1, a vertebrate homolog of hedgehog
expressed by the notochord. Cell, 76, 761–775.
Roelofs, A. (1992). Spreading-activation theory of lemma retrieval in speak-
ing. Cognition, 42, 107–142.
References 641
Roessler, E., Belloni, E., Gaudenz, K. et al. (1996). Mutations in the human sonic
hedgehog gene cause holoprosencephaly. Nature Genetics, 14, 357–360.
Rogalsky, C. and Hickok, G. (2008). Selective attention to semantic and
syntactic features modulates sentence processing networks in ante-
rior temporal cortex. Cerebral Cortex, 19, 786–796.
(2011). The role of Broca’s area in sentence comprehension. Journal of
Cognitive Neuroscience, 23(7), 1664–1680.
Rogalsky, C., Matchin, W., and Hickok, G. (2008). Broca’s area, sentence
comprehension, and working memory: An fMRI Study. Frontiers in
Human Neuroscience, 2, 14.
Rogers, J., Heinz, J., Bailey, G. et al. (2010). On languages piecewise testable
in the strict sense. The Mathematics of Language, 255–265.
Rohde, D. and Gibson, E. (2003). The on-line processing of active and
passive structures in English. CUNY Conference 2003.
Roll, P., Rudolf, G., Pereira, S. et al. (2006). SRPX2 mutations in disorders of
language cortex and cognition. Human Molecular Genetics, 15, 1195–1207.
Roll, P., Vernes, S. C., Bruneau, N. et al. (2010). Molecular networks impli-
cated in speech-related disorders: FOXP2 regulates the SRPX2/uPAR
complex. Human Molecular Genetics, 19, 4848–4860.
Roman, T., Schmitz, M., Polanczyk, G. et al. (2001). Attention-deficit hyper-
activity disorder: A study of association with both the dopamine trans-
porter gene and the dopamine D4 receptor gene. American Journal of
Medical Genetics, 105, 471–478.
Rosch, E. (1975). Cognitive representations of semantic categories. Journal
of Experimental Psychology: General, 104, 192–233.
(1978). Principles of categorization. In E. Rosch and B. B. Lloyd (eds.),
Cognition and Categorization (pp. 27–48). Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Rosch, E. and Mervis, C. B. (1975). Family resemblances: Studies in the
internal structure of categories. Cognitive Psychology, 7 (4), 573–605.
Rosch,E.,Mervis, C.B., Gray, W.D.,Johnson,D.M., and Boyes-Braem, P.(1976).
Basic objects in natural categories. Cognitive Psychology, 8(3). 382–439.
Rosen, G. D., Bai, J., Wang, Y. et al. (2007). Disruption of neural migration by
RNAi of Dyx1c1 results in neocortical and hippocampal malforma-
tions. Cerebral Cortex, 17, 2562–2572.
Ross, M .D., Owren, M. J., and Zimmermann, E. (2009). Reconstructing the
evolution of laughter in great apes and humans. Current Biology, 19,
1106–1111.
Rouder, J. N., Specman, P. L., Sun, D., Morey, R. D., and Iverson, G. (2009).
Bayesian t tests for accepting and rejecting the null hypothesis.
Psychonomic Bulletin and Review, 16, 225–237.
Rousseau, J.J. and Singh, N.K. (2006). Discourse on the Origin and the Foundations
of Inequality among Men. New Delhi: Global Vision Publishing Ho.
Rowe, A. D., Bullock, P. R., Polkey, C. E., and Morris, R. G. (2001). “Theory of
mind” impairments and their relationship to executive functioning
following frontal lobe excisions. Brain, 124, 600–616.
642 References
Ruben, R. J. (1997). A time frame of critical/sensitive periods of language
development. Acta Otolaryngologica, 117, 202–205.
Rubinsztein, D. C., Leggo, J., Chiano, M. et al. (1997). Genotypes at the GluR6
kainate receptor locus are associated with variation in the age of onset
of Huntington disease. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA
94: 3872–3876.
Ruhlen, M. (1994a). The Origin of Language. Tracing the Evolution of the Mother
Tongue. New York: John Wiley.
(1994b). On the Origin of Languages. Studies in Linguistic Taxonomy. Stanford
University Press.
Rumelhart, D. E. and McClelland, J. L. (1986). On learning the past tenses of
English verbs. In J. L. McClelland and D. E. Rumelhart (eds.), Parallel
Distributed Processing (Vol. 2): Psychological and Biological Models (pp. 216–
271). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Russell, B. (1948). Human Knowledge, Its Scope and Limits. New York: Simon
and Schuster.
Russell, J. (1996). Development and evolution of the symbolic function:
The role of working memory. In P. Mellars and K. R. Gibson (eds.),
Modelling the Early Human Mind (pp. 159–170). Cambridge: McDonald
Institute for Archaeological Research.
Ruvolo, M. (2004). Comparative primate genomics: The year of the chim-
panzee. Current Opinion Genetics and Development, 14 (6), 650–656.
Sachs, J. S. (1967). Recognition memory for syntactic and semantic aspects
of connected discourse. Perception and Psychophysics, 2, 437–442.
Saddy, D., Drenhaus, H., and Frisch, S. (2004). Processing polarity items:
Contrastive licensing costs. Brain and Language, 90, 495–502.
Saffran, J. R., Aslin, R. N., and Newport, E. L. (1996). Statistical learning by 8-
month-old infants. Science, 274 (5294), 1926–1928.
Safir, K. (1987). Comments on Wexler and Manzini. In T. Roeper and E.
Williams (eds.), Parameter Setting (pp. 77–90). Dordrecht: D. Reidel.
Sakai, K. L., Noguchi, Y., Takeuchi, T., and Watanabe, E. (2002). Selective
priming of syntactic processing by event-related transcranial mag-
netic stimulation of Broca’s area. Neuron, 35, 1177–1182.
Sakas, W. G. (2003). A word-order database for testing computational mod-
els of language acquisition. Proceedings of the 41st Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics, 415–422.
Sakas, W. G. and Fodor, J. D. (2001). The structural triggers learner. In
S. Bertolo (ed.), Language Acquisition and Learnability (pp. 172–233).
Cambridge University Press.
Sakas, W. G. and Nishimoto, E. (2002). Search, structure or statistics? A
comparative study of memoryless heuristics for syntax acquisition. In
Proceedings of the 24th Annual conference of the Cognitive Science Society
(pp. 786–791). Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Salie, R., Niederkofler, V., and Arber, S. (2005). Patterning molecules; multi-
tasking in the nervous system. Neuron, 45, 189–192.
References 643
Sams, M., Paavilainen, P., Alho, K., and Näätänen, R. (1985). Auditory
frequency discrimination and event-related potentials. Electroence-
phalography and Clinical Neurophysiology, 62 (6), 437–448.
Samuels, B. (2011). Phonological Architecture: A Biolinguistic Perspective. Oxford:
University Press.
Sanchidrián, J. L. (2001). Manual de arte prehistórico. Barcelona: Ariel.
Sanford, A. J. (2002). Context, attention, and depth of processing during
interpretation. Mind and Language, 17, 188–206.
Sano, T. and Hyams, N. (1994). Agreement, finiteness and the development
of null arguments. Proceedings of NELS 24, 1–16.
Santi, A. and Grodzinsky, Y. (2007a). Taxing working memory with
syntax: Bihemispheric modulations. Human Brain Mapping, 28,
1089–1097.
Santi, A. and Grodzinsky, Y. (2007b). Working memory and syntax interact
in Broca’s area. NeuroImage, 37, 8–17.
(2010). fMRI adaptation dissociates syntactic complexity dimensions.
NeuroImage, 51, 1285–1293.
Sargent, C. A., Briggs, H., and Chalmers, I. J. (1996). The sequence organ-
ization of Yp/proximal Xq homologous regions of the human sex
chromosomes is highly conserved. Genomics, 32, 200–209.
Sato, K., Sakamoto, K. Q., Katsumata, N. et al. (2008). The maximum and
minimum stroke frequencies of flying birds: Implication for the max-
imum size of flying animals. 3rd International Biologging Science
Symposium. Pacific Grove, CA: 67.
Sato, K., Sakamoto, K. Q., Watanuki, Y. et al. (2009). Scaling of soaring
seabirds and implications for flight abilities of giant pterosaurs. PLoS
One, 4(4), e5400. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0005400.
Sato, M., Brisebois, A., Grabski, K. et al. (2011). Articulatory bias in speech
categorization: Evidence from use-induced motor plasticity. Cortex, 47
(8), 1001–1003.
Saur, D., Baumgärtner, A., Möhring, A. et al. (2009). Word order processing
in the bilingual brain. Neuropsychologia, 47, 158–168.
Scharff, C. and Nottebohm, F. (1991). A comparative study of the behav-
ioral deficits following lesions of various parts of the zebra finch song
system: Implications for vocal learning. Journal of Neuroscience, 11 (9),
2896.
Scharff, C. and Haesler, S. (2005). An evolutionary perspective on
FoxP2: strictly for the birds? Current Opinion in Neurobiology, 15,
694–703.
Scharinger, M., Merickel, J., Riley, J., and Idsardi, W. (2010). Neuromagnetic
evidence for a featural distinction of English consonants: Sensor- and
source-space data. Brain and Language, 116 (2), 71–82.
Scharinger, M., Poe, S., and Idsardi, W. J. (2011). A three-dimensional cort-
ical map of vowel space: Evidence from Turkish. Journal of Cognitive
Neuroscience, 23(12), 3972–3982.
644 References
Scheffer, I. E., Jones, L., Pozzebon, M. et al. (1995). Autosomal dominant
rolandic epilepsy and speech dyspraxia: A new syndrome with antici-
pation. Annals of Neurology, 38, 633–642.
Scherg, M., Vajsar, J., and Picton, T. W. (1989). A source analysis of the late
human auditory evoked potentials. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 1
(4), 336–355.
Schick, K. D. and Toth, N. (1993). Making Silent Stones Speak: Human Evolution
and the Dawn of Technology. New York: Simon and Schuster.
Schlesewsky, M. and Bornkessel, I. (2004). On incremental interpretation:
Degrees of meaning accessed during language comprehension. Lingua,
114, 1213–1234.
Schlosser, G. (2004). The role of modules in development and evolution. In
G. Schlosser and G. P. Wagner (eds.), Modularity in Development and
Evolution (pp. 519–582). The University of Chicago Press.
Schlosser, G. and Wagner, G. P. (2004). Modularity in Development and
Evolution. University of Chicago Press.
Schlyter, S. (2011). Tense and aspect in early French development in aL2,
2L1 and cL2 learners. In E. Rinke and T. Kupisch (eds.), The Development
of Grammar: Language Acquisition and Diachronic Change (pp. 47–74).
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Schmelz, M., Josep Call, J., and Tomasello, M. (2011). Chimpanzees know
that others make inferences. Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences USA, 108(7), 3077–3079.
Schmidt, L. A., Fox, N. A., Perez-Edgar, K., Hu, S., and Hamer, D. H. (2001).
Association of DRD4 with attention problems in normal childhood
development. Psychiatric Genetics, 11, 25–29.
Schnupp, J., Nelkin, I., and King, A. (2010). Auditory Neuroscience: Making
Sense of Sound. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Schoenbaum, G., Roesch, M. R., and Stalnaker, T. A. (2006). Orbitofrontal
cortex, decision-making and drug addiction. Trends in Neuroscience, 29,
116–124.
Schreuder, R. and Baayen, R. H. (1995). Modeling morphological process-
ing. In L. B. Feldman (ed.), Morphological Aspects of Language Processing
(pp. 131–154). Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Schriefers, H. (1993). Syntactic processes in the production of noun
phrases. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Language, Memory, and
Cognition, 19, 841–850.
Schriefers, H., Meyer, A. S., and Levelt, W. J. M. (1990). Exploring the time
course of lexical access in language production: Picture-word interfer-
ence studies. Journal of Memory and Cognition, 29, 86–102.
Schroer, R. J., Phelan, M. C., Michaelis, R. C. et al. (1998). Autism and mater-
nally derived aberrations of chromosome 15q. Amercian Journal of
Medical Genetics, 76, 327–336.
Schubotz, R. I. and Fiebach, C. J. (2006). Integrative Models of Broca’s area
and the ventral premotor cortex. Cortex, 42, 461–463.
References 645
Schuele, M. and Tolbert, L. (2001). Omissions of obligatory relative markers
in children with specific language impairment. Clinical Linguistics and
Phonetics, 15 (4), 257–274.
Schütze, C. T. (1996). The Empirical Base of Linguistics: Grammaticality Judgments
and Linguistic Methodology. University of Chicago Press.
Schütze, C. T. and Sprouse, J. (in press). Judgment data. In D. Sharma and
R. Podesva (eds.), Research Methods in Linguistics. Cambridge University
Press.
Schütze, C. T. and Wexler, K. (1996). Subject case licensing and English root
infinitives. In Proceedings of the 20th Boston University Conference on
Language Development, 670–681.
Schwartz, B. D. (2004). On child L2 development of syntax and morphology.
Lingue e Linguaggio, 3, 97–132.
Schwartz, B. D. and Sprouse, R. A. (1996). L2 cognitive states and the Full
Transfer/Full Access model. Second Language Research, 12, 40–77.
Schwartz, M. F., Kimberg, D. Y., Walker, G. M. et al. (2009). Anterior
temporal involvement in semantic word retrieval: Voxel-based
lesion-symptom mapping evidence from aphasia. Brain, 132,
3411–3427.
Schwartz, R. J. and Olson, E. N. (1999). Building the heart piece by piece:
Modularity of cis-elements regulating Nkx2–5 transcription
Development, 126 (19), 4187–4192.
Schweizer, T. A., Ware, J., Fischer, C. E., Craik, F. I. M., and Bialystok, E. (in
press). Bilingualism as a contributor to cognitive reserve: Evidence
from brain atrophy in Alzheimer’s disease. Cortex.
Scott-Phillips, T. C. and Kirby, S. (2010). Language evolution in the labora-
tory. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 14 (9), 411–417.
Scott, S. K., Blank, C. C., Rosen, S., and Wise, R. J. (2000). Identification of a
pathway for intelligible speech in the left temporal lobe. Brain, 123
(12), 2400–2406.
Searcy, W. A. (1992). Song repertoire and mate choice in birds. Integrative
and Comparative Biology, 32 (1), 71–80.
Seidenberg, M. S. (1997). Language acquisition and use: Learning and apply-
ing probabilistic constraints. Science, 275, 1599–1604.
Seidenberg, M. S. and Arnoldussen, A. (2003). The brain makes a distinction
between hard and easy stimuli: Comments on Beretta et al. Brain and
Language, 85, 527–530.
Seidenberg, M. S. and Gonnerman, L. M. (2000). Explaining derivational
morphology as the convergence of codes. Trends in Cognitive Sciences,
4, 353–361.
Seidenberg, M. S. and Hoeffner, J. H. (1998). Evaluating behavioral and
neuroimaging data on past tense processing. Language, 74, 104–122.
Seidenberg, M. S. and McClelland, J. L. (1989). A distributed, developmental
model of word recognition and naming. Psychological Review, 96,
523–568.
646 References
Seidl, A. and Johnson, E. K. (2006). Infant word segmentation revisited:
Edge alignment facilitates target extraction. Developmental Science, 9,
565–573.
Seki, Y., Suzuki, K., Takahasi, M., and Okanoya, K. (2008). Song motor
control organizes acoustic patterns on two levels in Bengalese
Finches (Lonchura striata var. domestica). Journal of Comparative
Physiology A, 194, 533–543.
Seliger, H. W. (1978). Implications of a multiple critical periods hypothesis.
In W. Ritchie (ed.), Second Language Acquisition Research (pp. 11–19). New
York: Academic Press.
Semenza, C., Mondini, S., and Cappelletti, M. (1997). The grammatical
properties of mass nouns: An aphasia case study. Neuropsychologia, 24,
558–564.
Shallice, T., Rumiati, I. R., and Zadini, A. (2000). The selective impairment of
the phonological output buffer. Cognitive Neuropsychology, 17, 517–546.
Shallice, T. and Warrington, E. K. (1977). Auditory-verbal short-term mem-
ory impairment and conduction aphasia. Brain and Language, 4,
479–491.
Shamay-Tsoory S. G., Tibi-Elhanany Y., and Aharon-Peretz J. (2006). The
ventromedial prefrontal cortex is involved in understanding affective
but not cognitive theory of mind stories. Social Neuroscience, 1, 149–66.
Shamay-Tsoory, S. G., Tomer, R., and Aharon-Peretz, J. (2005). The neuro-
anatomical basis of understanding sarcasm and its relationship to
social cognition. Neuropsychology, 19, 288–300.
Shankle, W. R., Romney, A. K., Landing, B. H., and Hara, J. (1998).
Developmental patterns in the cytoarchitecture of the human cere-
bral cortex from birth to 6 years examined by correspondence analy-
sis. Proceedings of the National Academys of Sciences USA, 95 (7), 4023–4028.
Shao, Y., Cuccaro, M. L., Hauser, E. R. et al. (2003). Fine mapping of autistic
disorder to chromosome 15q11-q13 by use of phenotypic subtypes.
American Journal of Human Genetics, 72, 539–548.
Shapiro, K. A., Moo, L. R., and Caramazza, A. (2006). Cortical signatures of
noun and verb production. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
USA, 103, 1644–1649.
Shapiro, K. A., Shelton, J., and Caramazza, A. (2000). Grammatical class in
lexical production and morphological processing: Evidence from a
case of fluent aphasia. Cognitive Neuropsychology 17, 665–682.
Shapiro, K. A. and Caramazza, A. (2003). Grammatical processing of nouns
and verbs in left frontal cortex? Neuropsychologia, 41, 1189–1198.
Shapiro, K. A., Pascual-Leone, A., Mottaghy, F., Gangitano, M., and
Caramazza, A. (2001). Grammatical distinctions in the left frontal
cortex. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 13, 713–720.
Shapiro, L. P., Brookins, B., Gordon, B., and Nagel, N. (1991). Verb effects
during sentence processing. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning,
Memory, and Cognition, 17, 983–996.
References 647
Shapiro, L. P., Gordon, B., Hack, N., and Killackey, J. (1993). Verb-argument
structure processing in Broca’s and Wernicke’s aphasia. Brain and
Language, 45, 423–447.
Shapiro, L. P. and Levine, B. A. (1990). Verb processing during sentence
comprehension in aphasia. Brain and Language, 38, 21–47.
Shapiro, L. P., Zurif, E., and Grimshaw, J. (1987). Sentence processing and
the mental representation of verbs. Cognition, 27, 219–246.
(1989). Verb processing during sentence comprehension: Contextual
impenetrability. Journal of Psycholinguistic Research, 18, 223–243.
Sharma, A. and Dorman, M. F. (1999). Cortical auditory evoked potential
correlates of categorical perception of voice-onset time. Journal of the
Acoustical Society of America, 106 (2), 1078–1083.
(2000). Neurophysiologic correlates of cross-language phonetic percep-
tion. Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, 107 (5), 2697–2703.
Shatil, E. and Share, D. L. (2003). Cognitive antecedents of early reading
ability: A test of the modularity hypothesis. Journal of Experimental Child
Psychology, 86 (1), 1–31.
Shattuck-Hufnagel, S. (1992). The role of word structure in segmental serial
ordering. Cognition, 42, 213–259.
Shattuck-Hufnagel, S. and Turk, A. E. (1996). A prosody tutorial for inves-
tigators of auditory sentence processing. Journal of Psycholinguistic
Research, 25 (2), 193–247.
Shaywitz S., Morris, R., and Shaywitz B. (2008). The education of dyslexic
children from childhood to young adulthood. Annual Review of
Psychology, 59, 451–475.
Shaywitz, B. A., Fletcher, J., and Shaywitz, S. E. (1995). Defining and classi-
fying learning disabilities and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.
Journal of Child Neurology, 10, S50–S57.
Shaywitz, S. E. (1998). Dyslexia. New England Journal of Medicine, 338,
307–3012.
Shaywitz, S. E. and Shaywitz, B. A. (2005). Dyslexia (Specific Reading
Disability). Biological Psychiatry, 57, 1301–1309.
Shaywitz, S. E., Shaywitz, B. A., Pugh, K. R. et al. (1998). Functional disrup-
tion in the organization of the brain for reading in dyslexia. Proceedings
of the National Academy of Sciences USA, 95, 2636–2641.
Shetreet, E. and Friedmann, N. (2012). Stretched, jumped, and fell: An fRMI
investigation of reflexive verbs and other intransitives. Neuroimage, 60,
1800–1806.
Shetreet, E., Friedmann, N., and Hadar, U. (2009a). An fMRI study of syn-
tactic layers: Sentential and lexical aspects of embedding. NeuroImage,
48, 707–716.
(2009b). The neural correlates of linguistic distinctions: Unaccusative
and unergative verbs. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 22, 2306–2315.
(2010). Cortical representation of verbs with optional complements: The
theoretical contribution of fMRI. Human Brain Mapping, 31, 770–785.
648 References
Shetreet, E., Palti, D., Friedmann, N., and Hadar, U. (2007). Cortical repre-
sentation of verb processing in sentence comprehension: Number of
complements, subcategorization, and thematic frames. Cerebral
Cortex, 17, 1958–1969.
Shettleworth, S. J. 1998. Cognition, Evolution, and Behavior. Oxford University
Press.
Shi, R. and Gauthier, B. (2005). Recognition of function words in 8-month-
old French-learning infants. Journal of Acoustical Society of America, 117
(4), 2426–2427.
Shi, R. and Lepage, M. (2008). The effect of functional morphemes on word
segmentation in preverbal infants. Developmental Science, 11, 407–413.
Shi, R. and Melançon, A. (2010). Syntactic categorization in French-
learning infants. Infancy, 15, 517–533.
Shi, R., Werker, J. F., and Cutler, A. (2006). Recognition and representation
of function words in English-learning infants. Infancy, 10, 187–198.
Short, R. A., Graff-Radford, N. R., Adamson, J., Baker, M., and Hutton, M.
(2002). Differences in tau and apolipoprotein E polymorphism fre-
quencies in sporadic frontotemporal lobar degeneration syndromes.
Archives of Neurology, 59, 611–615.
Shriberg, L.D., Ballard, K. J., Tomblin, J.B. et al. (2006). Speech, prosody, and
voice characteristics of a mother and daughter with a 7, 13 transloca-
tion affecting FOXP2. Journal of Speech Language, and Hearing Research, 49,
500–525.
Shriberg, L. D., Tomblin, J. B. and McSweeny, J. L. (1999). Prevalence of
speech delay in 6-year-old children and comorbidity with lan-
guage impairment. Journal of Speech, Language Hearing Research, 42,
1461–1481.
Shtyrov, Y. and Pulvermüller, F. (2002a). Memory traces for inflectional
affixes as shown by mismatch negativity. The European Journal of
Neuroscience, 15 (6), 1085–1091.
(2002b). Neurophysiological evidence of memory traces for words in the
human brain. Neuroreport, 13 (4), 521–525.
Shtyrov, Y., Pulvermüller, F., Näätänen, R., and Ilmoniemi, R. J. (2003).
Grammar processing outside the focus of attention: An MEG study.
Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 15 (8), 1195–1206.
Shu, T., Ayala, R., Nguyen, M.-D. et al. (2004). Ndel1 operates in a common
pathway with LIS1 and cytoplasmic dynein to regulate cortical neuro-
nal positioning. Neuron, 44, 263–277.
Shu, W., Cho, J. Y., Jiang, Y. et al. (2005). Altered ultrasonic vocalization in
mice with a disruption in Foxp2 gene. Proceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences USA, 102, 9643–9648.
Shu, W., Yang, H., Zhang, L., Lu, M. M., and Morrisey, E. E. (2001).
Characterization of a new subfamily of wingedhelix/forkhead (Fox)
genes that are expressed in the lung and act as transcriptional repress-
ors. Journal Biological Chemistry, 276, 27488–27497.
References 649
Shubin, N. (2008). Your Inner Fish. A Journey into the 3.5-Billion-Year History of the
Human Body. New York: Pantheon Books.
Shubin, N., Tabin, C., and Carroll, S. (1997). Fossils, genes, and the evolu-
tion of animal limbs. Nature, 388, 639–648.
(2009). Deep homology and the origins of evolutionary novelty. Nature,
457, 818–823.
Sigurjonsdottir, S. (1999). Root infinitives and null subjects in early
Icelandic. In A. Greenhill, H. Littlefield, and C. Tano (eds.), Proceedings
of the 23rd Annual Boston University Conference on Language Development,
630–641.
Silveri, M. C. and Gainotti, G. (1988). Interaction between vision and lan-
guage in category-specific semantic impairment. Cognitive
Neuropsychology, 5, 677–709.
Silverman, D. (2006). Critical Introduction to Phonology: Of Sound, Mind, and
Body. Continuum.
Silverstein, M. (1976). Hierarchy of features and ergativity. In
R. M. W. Dixon (ed.), Grammatical Categories in Australian Languages
(pp. 112–171). New Jersey: Humanities Press.
Sinex, D. G. and McDonald, L. P. (1988). Average discharge rate representa-
tion of voice onset time in the chinchilla auditory nerve. The Journal of
the Acoustical Society of America, 83 (5), 1817–1827.
(1989). Synchronized discharge rate representation of voice-onset time
in the chinchilla auditory nerve. The Journal of the Acoustical Society of
America, 85 (5), 1995–2004.
SLI Consortium (2002). A genomewide scan identifies two novel loci
involved in specific language impairment. American Journal of Human
Genetics, 70, 384–398.
(2004). Highly significant linkage to the SLI1 locus in an expanded sample
of individuals affected by specific language impairment. American
Journal of Human Genetics, 74, 1225–1238.
Slocombe, K. E., Kaller, T., Turman, L. et al. (2010). Production of food-
associated calls in wild male chimpanzees is dependent on the com-
position of the audience. Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology, 65.
Slocombe, K. E. and Zuberbühler, K. (2007). Chimpanzees modify recruit-
ment screams as a function of audience composition. Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences USA, 104, 17228–17233.
Smith, A. D. M. (2005). The inferential transmission of language. Adaptive
behavior, 13 (4), 311–324.
Smith, D. S., Niethammer, M., Ayala, R. et al. (2000). Regulation of cytoplas-
mic dynein behaviour and microtubule organization by mammalian
Lis1. Nature Cell Biology, 2, 767–775.
Smith, E. E. and Jonides, J. (1999). Storage and executive processes in the
frontal lobes. Science, 283, 1657–1661.
Smith, E. E. and Medin, D. L. (1981). Categories and Concepts. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press.
650 References
Smith, K. (2002). The cultural evolution of communication in a population
of neural networks. Connection Science, 14 (1), 65–84.
(2008). Is a holistic protolanguage a plausible precursor to language? A test
case for a modern evolutionary linguistics. Interaction Studies, 9 (1), 1–17.
Smith, K. and Kirby, S. (2008). Cultural evolution: Implications for under-
standing the human language faculty and its evolution. Philosophical
Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences, 363 (1509), 3591– 3603.
Smith, L. B., Colunga, E., and Yoshida, H. (2010). Knowledge as process:
Contextually-cued attention and early word learning. Cognitive Science,
34, 1–28.
Smith, N. V. (2005). Is there a gene for linguists? Language, Frogs, and Savants:
More Linguistic Problems, Puzzles, and Polemics. Oxford: Blackwell.
Smith, N. V. and Law, A. (2009). On parametric (and non-parametric) varia-
tion. Biolinguistics, 3 (4), 332–343.
Smith, N. V. and Tsimpli, I. M. (1995). The Mind of a Savant: Language Learning
and Modularity. Oxford: Blackwell.
Smith, N. V., Tsimpli, I. M., Morgan, G., and Woll, B. (2011). The Signs of a
Savant: Language against the Odds. Cambridge University Press.
Smith, S.D. (2007). Genes, language development, and language disorders.
Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilites Research Reviews, 13, 96–105.
Smith, S. D., Gilger, J. W., and Pennington, B. F. (1996). Dyslexia and other
specific learning disorders. In D. L. Rimo, J. M. Connor, and
R. E. Pyeritz, (ed.), Principles and Practice of Medical Genetics (pp. 1767–
1789). New York: Churchill Livingstone.
Smuts, B. B., Cheney, D. L., Seyfarth, R. M., Wrangham, R. M., and
Struhsaker, T. T. (1987). Primate societies. University of Chicago Press.
Snijders, T. M., Vosse, T., Kempen, G. et al. (2009). Retrieval and unification
of syntactic structure in sentence comprehension: An fMRI study
using word category ambiguity. Cerebral Cortex, 19, 1493–1503.
Soderstrom, M., Seidl, A., Kemler Nelson, D. G., and Jusczyk, P. (2003). The
prosodic bootstrapping of phrases: Evidence from prelinguistic
infants. Journal of Memory and Language, 49, 249–267.
Soma, M., Saito, D. S., Hasegawa, T., and Okanoya, K. (2007). Sex-specific
maternal effect on egg mass, laying order, and sibling competition in
the Bengalese finch (Lonchura striata var. domestica). Behavioral Ecology
and Sociobiology, 61 (11), 1695–1705.
Sopata, A. (2009). Erwerbstheoretische und glottodidaktische Aspekte des frühen
Zweitspracherwerbs: Sprachentwicklung der Kinder im natürlichen und schuli-
schen Kontext. Poznań: Wydawnictwo Naukowe UAM.
Sopata, A. (2011). Placement of infinitives in successive child language
acquisition. In E. Rinke and T. Kupisch (eds.), The Development of
Grammar: Language Acquisition and Diachronic Change (pp. 105–121).
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Sorace, A. and Keller, F. (2005). Gradience in linguistic data. Lingua, 115
(11), 1497–1524.
References 651
Sorger, B., Goebel, R., Schiltz, C., and Rossion, B. (2007). Understanding the
functional neuroanatomy of acquired prosopagnosia. Neuroimage, 35,
836–852.
Spelke, E. S. (1983). Cognition in infancy. Unpublished paper.
(1998). Nativism, empiricism, and the origins of knowledge. Infant
Behavior and Development, 21, 181–200.
Spencer, A. (1991). Morphological Theory. Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
Spencer, N. J. (1973). Differences between linguists and nonlinguists in
intuitions of grammaticality-acceptability. Journal of Psycholinguistic
Research, 2 (2), 83–98.
Sperber, D. (2001). In defense of massive modularity. In D. Emmanuel (ed.),
Language, Brain, and Cognitive Development: Essays in Honor of Jacques Mehler
(pp. 47–57). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Sperber, D. and Wilson, D. (1995). Relevance: Communication and Cognition.
Oxford: Blackwell.
Spiteri, E., Konopka, G., Coppola, G. et al. (2007). Identification of the
transcriptional targets of FOXP2, a gene linked to speech and language,
in developing human brain. American Journal of Human Genetics, 81,
1144–1157.
Spivey, M. J., Tanenhaus, M. K., Eberhard, K. M., and Sedivy, J.C. (2002). Eye
movements and spoken language comprehension: effects of visual
context on syntactic ambiguity resolution. Cognitive Psychology, 45 (4),
447–481.
Sporns, O. and Kotter, R. (2004). Motifs in brain networks. PLoS Biology, 2
(11), e369.
Sporns, O., Tononi, G., and Edelman, G. M. (2002). Theoretical neuroanat-
omy and the connectivity of the cerebral cortex. Behavioral Brain
Research, 135 (1–2), 69–74.
Sprouse, J. (2007a). A program for experimental syntax. Doctoral disserta-
tion, University of Maryland.
(2007b). Continuous acceptability, categorical grammaticality, and
experimental syntax. Biolinguistics, 1, 118–129.
(2008). The differential sensitivity of acceptability to processing effects.
Linguistic Inquiry, 39 (4), 686–694.
(2011a). A validation of Amazon Mechanical Turk for the collection of
acceptability judgments in linguistic theory. Behavior Research Methods,
43 (1), 155–167.
(2011b). A test of the cognitive assumptions of Magnitude Estimation:
Commutativity does not hold for acceptability judgments. Language,
87 (2), 274–288.
Sprouse, J. and Almeida, D. (2012). Assessing the reliability of textbook data
in syntax: Adger’s Core Syntax. Journal of Linguistics.
(submitted). Power in acceptability judgment experiments and the reli-
ability of data in syntax.
652 References
(in press). The empirical status of data in syntax: a reply to Gibson and
Fedorenko.
Sprouse, J., Wagers, M., and Phillips, C. (2012). A test of the relation
between working memory capacity and syntactic island effects.
Language, 88 (1), 82–123.
Sprouse, J., Fukuda, S., Ono, H., and Kluender, R. (2011). Reverse island
effects and the backward search for a licensor in multiple wh-
questions. Syntax, 14 (2), 179–203.
Sprouse, J. and Lau, E. (2012). Syntax and the brain. In M. den Dikken (ed.),
The Handbook of Generative Grammar. Cambridge University Press.
Sprouse, J., Schütze, C., and Almeida, D. (submitted). Assessing the reli-
ability of journal data in syntax: Linguistic Inquiry 2001–2010.
Stankiewicz, P. and Lupski, J. R. (2006). The genomic basis of disease,
mechanisms and assays for genomic diosrders. Genome Dynamics, 11,
1–16.
Starke, M. (2009). Nanosyntax. A short primer to a new approach to lan-
guage. Nordlyd, 36, 1–6.
Stedman, H. H., Kozyak, B. W., and Nelson, A. (2004). Myosin gene muta-
tion correlates with anatomical changes in the human lineage. Nature,
428, 415–418.
Steedman, M. (1996). Surface Structure and Interpretation. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
(2002). Plans, affordances, and combinatory grammar. Linguistics and
Philosophy, 25, 723–752.
Steels, L. (2003). Evolving grounded communication for robots. Trends in
Cognitive Sciences, 7 (7), 308–312.
(2010). Modeling the formation of language: Embodied experiments. In
S. Nolfi and M. Mirolli (eds.), Evolution of Communication and Language in
Embodied Agents, (pp. 235–262). Berlin: Springer.
Stein, C. M., Millard, C., Kluge, A. et al. (2006). Speech sound disorder
influenced by a locus in 15q14 region. Behavior Genetics, 36, 858–868.
Stein, C. M., Schick, J. H., Taylor, H. G. et al. (2004). Pleiotropic effects of a
chromosome 3 locus on speech-sound disorder and reading. American
Journal of Human Genetics, 74, 283–297.
Stein, J. and Walsh, V. (1997). To see but not to read: The magnocellular
theory of dyslexia. Trends in Neuroscience, 201, 147–152.
Steinhauer, K. and J. Drury (2012). On the early left-anterior negativity
(ELAN) in syntax studies. Brain and Language, 120, 135–162.
Steinhauer, K., Drury, J. E., Portner, P., Walenski, M., and Ullman, M. T.
(2010). Syntax, concepts, and logic in the temporal dynamics of lan-
guage comprehension: Evidence from event-related potentials.
Neuropsychologia, 48(6), 1525–1542.
Steinschneider, M., Schroeder, C. E., Arezzo, J. C., and Vaughan, H. G., Jr.
(1995). Physiologic correlates of the voice onset time boundary in
References 653
primary auditory cortex (A1) of the awake monkey: Temporal
response patterns. Brain and Language, 48 (3), 326–340.
Stemmer, B. and H. A. Whitaker (eds.) (2008). Handbook of the Neuroscience of
Language. Amsterdam: Academic Press/Elsevier.
Stephens, D. W. and Krebs, J. R. (1986). Optimal Foraging Theory. Princeton
University Press.
Sternberg, S. (1966). High-speed scanning in human memory. Science, 152,
652–654.
(1975). Memory-scanning: New findings and current controversies.
Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology, 27, 1–32.
Stevens, K. N. (2002). Toward a model for lexical access based on acoustic
landmarks and distinctive features. Journal of the Acoustical Society of
America, 111 (4), 1872–1891.
Stevens, S. S. (1957). On the psychophysical law. Psychological Review, 64,
153–181.
Stevenson, J., Graham, P., Fredman, G., and McLoughlin, V. (1987). A twin
study of genetic influences on reading and spelling ability and disabil-
ity. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, 229–247.
Stowe, L. A., Broere, C. A., Paans, A. M. et al. (1998). Localizing components
of a complex task: Sentence processing and working memory.
Neuroreport, 9 (13), 2995–2999.
Stowe, L. A., Haverkort, M., and Zwarts, F. (2005). Rethinking the neuro-
logical basis of language. Lingua, 115, 997–1042.
Stowe, L. A., Paans, A. M. J., Wijers, A. A., and Zwarts, F. (2004). Activations
of “motor” and other non-language structures during sentence com-
prehension. Brain and Language, 89, 290–299.
Strausfeld, N. J., Homberg, U., and Kloppenburg, P. (2000). Parallel organ-
ization in honey bee mushroom bodies by peptidergic Kenyon cells.
Journal of Comparative Neurology, 424, 179–95.
Striedter, G. F. (2005). Principles of Brain Evolution. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer
Associates.
Stromswold, K. (1998). Genetics of spoken language disorders. Human
Biology, 70, 293–320.
(1999). Cognitive and neural aspects of language acquisition. In
E. Lepore and Z. Pylyshyn (eds.), What Is Cognitive Science? Oxford:
Blackwell.
(2001). The heritability of language: A review and metaanalysis of twin,
adoption and linkage studies. Language, 77, 647–723.
(2006). Why aren’t identical twins linguistically identical: Genetic, pre-
natal and postnatal factors. Cognition, 101 (2), 333–384.
Stromswold, K., Caplan, D., Alpert, N., and Rauch, S. (1996). Localization of
syntactic comprehension by positron emission tomography. Brain and
Language, 52, 452–473.
Stroop, J. R. (1935). Studies of interference in serial verbal reactions. Journal
of Experimental Psychology, 18, 643–662.
654 References
Studdert-Kennedy, M. (1998). The particulate origins of language genera-
tivity: From syllable to gesture. In J. Hurford, M. Studdert-Kennedy,
and C. Knight (eds.), Approaches to the Evolution of Language. Social and
Cognitive Bases (pp. 202–221). Cambridge University Press.
Sturt, P. (2003). The time-course of the application of binding constraints
in reference resolution. Journal of Memory and Language, 48, 542–562.
Stuss, D. T. and Benson, F. (1984). Neuropsychological studies of the frontal
lobes. Psychological Bulletin, 95, 3–28.
Stuss, D. T. and Benson, F. (1987). The frontal lobes and control of cognition
and memory. In E. Perceman (ed.), The Frontal Lobes Revisited
(pp. 141–158). New York: IRBN.
Suge, R. and Okanoya, K. (2009). Perceptual chunking in the self-produced
songs of Bengalese finches (Lonchura striata var. domestica). Animal
Cognition, 13 (3), 515–523.
Sundaresan, V., Roberts, I., Bateman, A. et al. (1998). The DUTT1 gene, a
novel NCAM family member is expressed in developing murine neural
tissues and has an unusually broad pattern of expression. Molecular and
Cellular Neuroscience, 11, 29–35.
Swanson, H. L., Howard, C. B., and Saez, L. (2006). Do different components
of working memory underlie different subgroups of reading disabil-
ities? Journal of Learning Disabilities, 39, 252–269.
Swinney, D. (1979). Lexical access during sentence comprehension:
(Re) consideration of context effects. Journal of Verbal Learning and
Verbal Behavior, 18, 645–660.
Swinney, D., Ford, M., Frauenfelder, U., and Bresnan, J. (1988). On the
temporal course of gap-filling and antecedent assignment (during
sentence comprehension). In B. Grosz, R. Kaplan, M. Macken, and
I. Sag (eds.), Language and Structure Processing. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Swinney, D., Zurif, E., and Nicol, J. (1989). The effects of focal brain damage
on sentence processing: An examination of the neurological organi-
zation of a mental module. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 1, 25–37.
Szterman, R. and Friedmann, N. (2003). The deficit in comprehension of
movement-derived sentences in children with hearing impairment [in
Hebrew]. Lir’ot et hakolot, 2, 20–29.
Sztriha, L., Al-Gazali, L. I., Varady, E., Goebel, H. H., and Nork, M. (1999).
Autosomal recessive micrencephaly with simplified gyral pattern,
abnormal myelination and arthrogryposis. Neuropediatrics, 30, 141–145.
Taft, M. and Forster, K. I. (1975). Lexical storage and retrieval of prefixed
words. Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior, 14, 638–647.
Taft, M. and Kougious, P. (2004). The processing of morpheme-like units in
monomorphemic words. Brain and Language, 90, 9–16.
Tager-Flusberg, H. (2006). Defining language phenotypes in autism. Clinical
Neuroscience Reasearch, 6, 219–224.
Taipale, M., Kaminen, N., Nopola-Hemmi, J. et al. (2003). A candidate gene
for developmental dyslexia encodes a nuclear tetratricopeptide repeat
References 655
domain protein dynamically regulated in brain. Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences USA, 100, 11553–11558.
Taka-Tsukasa. (1917). Companion Birds (in Japanese). Tokyo: Shoka-bo.
Takahasi, M. and Okanoya, K. (2010). Song learning in wild and domesti-
cated strains of white-rumped munia, lonchura striata, compared by
cross-fostering procedures: Domestication increases song variability
by decreasing strain-specific bias. Ethology, 116 (5), 396–405.
Takahasi, M., Yamada, H., and Okanoya, K., (2010). Statistical and prosodic
cues for song segmentation learning by Bengalese finches (Lonchura
striata var. domestica). Ethology, 116 (6), 481–489.
Talavage, T. M., Ledden, P. J., Benson, R. R., Rosen, B. R., and Melcher, J. R.
(2000). Frequency-dependent responses exhibited by multiple regions
in human auditory cortex. Hearing Research, 150, 225–244.
Tallal, P. (2003). Language learning disabilities. Current Directions in
Psychological Science, 12 (6), 206–211.
Tallerman, M. (2007). Did our ancestors speak a holistic protolanguage?
Lingua, 117 (3), 579–604.
Tanenhaus, M. K., Spivey-Knowlton, M. J., Eberhard, K. M., and Sedivy, J. C.
(1995). Integration of visual and linguistic information in spoken
language comprehension. Science, 268 (5217), 1632–1634.
Tardif, T. (1996). Nouns are not always learned before verbs: Evidence from
Mandarin speakers’ early vocabularies. Developmental Psychology, 32 (3),
492–504.
Tarr, M. J. and Gauthier, I. (2000). FFA: a flexible fusiform area for
subordinate-level visual processing automatized by expertise. Nature
Neuroscience, 3 (8), 764–769.
Tattersall, I. (1998). Becoming Human: Evolution and Human Uniqueness. New
York: Harcourt Brace.
Tavabi, K., Elling, L., Dobel, C., Pantev, C., and Zwitserlood, P. (2009).
Effects of place of articulation changes on auditory neural activity: A
magnetoencephalography study. PLoS ONE, 4 (2), e4452.
Teichmann, M., Dupoux, E., Kouider, S. et al. (2005). The role of the stria-
tum in rule application: The model of Huntington’s disease at early
stage. Brain, 128, 1155–1167.
Temple, C. M. (1997). Developmental Cognitive Neuropsychology. Hove:
Psychology Press.
Temple, E., Poldrack, R. A., Protopapas, A. et al. (2000). Disruption of the
neural response to rapid acoustic stimuli in dyslexia: Evidence from
functional MRI. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA, 97,
13907–13912.
Ten Donkelaar, H. J. (2000). Major events in the development of the fore-
brain. European Journal of Morphology, 38, 301–308.
Tenenbaum, J., Griffiths, T., and Kemp, C. (2006). Theory-based Bayesian
models of inductive learning and reasoning. Trends in Cognitive Sciences,
10 (7), 309–318.
656 References
Tentler, D., Johannesson, T., Johansson, M. et al (2003). A candidate region
for Asperger syndrome defined by two 17p breakpoints. European
Journal of Human Genetics, 11, 189–95.
Teramitsu, I. and White, S. A. (2006). FoxP2 regulation during undirected
singing in adult songbirds. Journal of Neuroscience, 26 (28), 7390.
Terrace, H. S., Petitto, L. A., Sanders, R. J., and Bever, T. G. (1980). On the
grammatical capacity of apes. In K. E. Nelson (ed.), Children’s Language,
Vol. II (pp. 371–443). New York: Gardner Press.
(1981). Ape language. Science, 211, 87–88.
Terzi, A. and Wexler, K. (2002). A-chains and S-homophones in children’s
grammar: Evidence from Greek passives. NELS, 32, 519–537.
Tettamanti, M., Alkadhi, H., Moro, A., et al. (2002). Neural correlates for the
acquisition of natural language syntax. NeuroImage, 17, 700–709.
Tettamanti, M., Moro, A., and Messa, C. (2005). Basal ganglia and language:
Phonology modulates dopaminergic release. Neuroreport, 16, 397–401.
Tettamanti, M., Rotondi, I., Perani, D. et al. (2009). Syntax without lan-
guage: Neurobiological evidence for cross-domain syntactic computa-
tions. Cortex, 45, 825–838.
Theios, J. (1973). Reaction time measurement in the study of memory
processes: Theory and data. In G. H. Bower (ed.), The Psychology of
Learning and Motivation, Vol. VII (pp. 44–85). New York: Academic Press.
Thomas, C., Altenmiller, E., Marchmann, G., Kahrs, J., and Dichgans, J.
(1997). Language processing in aphasia: Changes in lateralization
patterns during recovery reflect cerebral plasticity in adults.
Electroencephalography and Clinical Neurophysiology, 102, 86–97.
Thomas, M. and Karmiloff-Smith, A. (2002). Are developmental disorders like
cases of adult brain damage? Implications from connectionist model-
ling. Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 25 (6), 727–750; discussion 750–787.
Thompson-Schill, S. L. (2003). Neuroimaging studies of semantic memory:
Inferring “how” from “where”. Neuropsychologia, 41 (3), 280–292.
Thompson-Schill, S. L., Bedny, M., and Goldberg, R. F. (2005). The frontal
lobes and the regulation of mental activity. Current Opinion in
Neurobiology, 15, 219–224.
Thompson-Schill, S. L., d’Esposito, M., Aguirre, G. K., and Farah, M. J. (1997).
Role of left inferior prefrontal cortex in retrieval of semantic knowl-
edge: a reevaluation. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA,
94, 14792–14797.
Thompson, C. K. and Shapiro, L. P. (2005). Treating agrammatic aphasia
within a linguistic framework: Treatment of underlying forms.
Aphasiology, 19, 10–11.
Thompson, D. (1917/1942/1992). On growth and form. John Tyler Bonner,
(ed.); foreword by Stephen Jay Gould. Cambridge University Press.
Threlkeld, S. W., McClure, M. M., Bai, J. et al. (2007). Developmental dis-
ruptions and behavioral impairments in rats following in utero RNAi
of Dyx1c1. Brain Research Bulletin, 71, 508–514.
References 657
Tiitinen, H., May, P., Reinikainen, K., and Näätänen, R. (1994). Attentive
novelty detection in humans is governed by pre-attentive sensory
memory. Nature, 372 (6501), 90–92.
Tobias, P. V. (1983). Recent advances in the evolution of the hominids with
special reference to brain and speech. Pontificial Academy of Sciences.
Scripta Varia, 50, 840–951.
(1987). The brain of Homo habilis: A new level of organization in cerebral
evolution. Journal of Human Evolution, 16, 741–761.
Tomasello, M. (1992). First Verbs: A Case Study of Early Grammatical
Development. Cambridge University Press.
(1995). Language is not an instinct. Cognitive development, 10, 131–156.
(1998). The New Psychology of Language. London: Erlbaum.
(1999). The Cultural Origins of Human Cognition. Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press.
(2003). Constructing a Language: A Usage-Based Theory of Language Acquisition.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Tomasello, M. and Call, J. (1997). Primate Cognition. Oxford University Press.
Tomasello, M. and Herrmann, E. (2010). Ape and human cognition: What’s
the difference? Current Directions in Psychological Science, 19 (1), 3–8.
Tomblin, J. B. (1989). Familial concentration of developmental language
impairment. Journal of Speech and Hearing Disorders, 54, 287–295.
Tomlin, R. S. (1986). Basic Word Order: Functional Principles. London:
Routledge (Croom Helm).
Tooby, J. and Cosmides, L. (1992). The psychological foundations of culture.
In J. H. Barkow, L. Cosmides, and J. Tooby (eds.), The Adapted Mind:
Evolutionary Psychology and the Generation of Culture (pp. 19–136).
London: Oxford University Press.
Toth, N. and Schick, K. D. (1993). Early stone industries and inferences
regarding language and cognition. In K. R. Gibson and T. Ingold
(eds.), Tools, Language and Cognition in Human Evolution (pp. 346–362).
Cambridge University Press.
Townsend, D. J. and Bever, T. (2001). Sentence Comprehension: The Integration of
Habits and Rules. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Townsend, S. W., Deschner, T., and Zuberbühler, K. (2008). Female chim-
panzees use copulation calls flexibly to prevent social competition.
PLoS One, 3, e2431.
Toyo-oka, K., Shionoya, A., Gambello, M. J. et al. (2003). 14–3–3epsilon is
important for neuronal migration by binding to NUDEL: A molecular
explanation for Miller-Dieker syndrome. Nature Genetics, 34, 274–285.
Tran, J. (2005). Verb position and verb form in English-speaking children’s
L2 acquisition of German. In A. Brugos, M. R. Clark-Cotton, and S. Ha
(eds.), BUCLD 29 (pp. 592–603).
Tranel, D., Adolphs, R., Damasio, H., and Damasio, A. R. (2001). A neural
basis for the retrieval of words for actions. Cognitive Neuropsychology, 18,
655–70.
658 References
Traxler, M. J. and Pickering, M. J. (1996). Plausibility and the processing of
unbounded dependencies: An eye-tracking study. Journal of Memory and
Language, 35, 454–475.
Treccani, B., Argyri, E., Sorace, A., and Della Sala, S. (2009). Spatial negative
priming in bilingualism. Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 16, 320–327.
Treisman, M. and Doctor, E. (1987). Memory scanning: A comparison of the
dynamic stack and exhaustive serial scan models with an extension of
the latter. Acta Psychologica, 64, 39–92.
Trimborn, M., Bell, S. M., Felix, C. et al. (2004). Mutations in microcephalin
cause aberrant regulation of chromosome condensation. American
Journal of Human Genetics, 75, 261–266.
Trinkaus, E. (2007). Human evolution: Neandertal gene speaks out. Current
Biology, 17, R917–R918.
Tsakali, V. and Wexler, K. (2004). Why children omit clitics in some
languages but not in others: New evidence from Greek. In J. van
Kampen and S. Baauw (eds.), Proceedings of GALA 2003, vol. II,
(pp. 493–504). Utrecht: LOT.
Turing, A. (1992). Collected Works of Alan Turing: Morphogenesis. P. T. Saunders,
ed. Amsterdam: North-Holland.
Turk, I. (ed.) (1997). Mousterian ‘Bone Flute’? and Other Finds from Divje Babe 1
Cave Site in Slovenia. Liubliana: Institut za Arhaeologijo.
Tyler, L. K. and Moss, H. E. (2001). Towards a distributed account of con-
ceptual knowledge. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 5, 244–252.
Tyler, L. K., Stamatakis, E. A., Post, B., Randall, B., and Marslen-Wilson,
W. (2005). Temporal and frontal systems in speech comprehen-
sion: An fMRI study of past tense processing. Neuropsychologia, 43,
1963–1974.
Uhde, N. L. and Sommer, V. (2002). Antipredatory behavior in gibbons
(Hylobates lar, Khao Yai/Thailand). In L. E. Miller (ed.), Eat or Be Eaten
(pp. 268–292). Cambridge University Press.
Ulinski, P S. (1983). Dorsal Ventricular Ridge: A Treatise on Forebrain
Organization in Reptiles and Birds. New York: Wiley.
Ullman, M. T. (2001a). The declarative/procedural model of lexicon and
grammar. Journal of Psycholinguistic Research, 30, 37–69.
(2001b). A neurocognitive perspective on language: The declarative/pro-
cedural model. Nature Reviews Neuroscience, 2, 717–726.
(2004). Contributions of memory circuits to language: The declarative/
procedural model. Cognition, 92 (1–2), 231–270.
Ullman, M. T., Corkin, S., Coppola, M. et al. (1997). A neural dissociation
within language: Evidence that the mental dictionary is part of declar-
ative memory and that grammatical rules are processed by the proce-
dural system. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 9, 266–276.
Ullman, M. T. and Pierpont, E. I. (2005). Specific language impairment is
not specific to language: The procedural deficit hypothesis. Cortex, 41
(3), 399–433.
References 659
Unsworth, S. (2005). Child L2, Adult L2, Child L1: Differences and Similarities. A
Study on the Acquisition of Direct Object Scrambling in Dutch. Utrecht: LOT.
Uriagereka, J. (2008). Desperately evolving syntax. In A. D. M. Smith,
K. Smith, and R. Ferrer i Cancho (eds.), The Evolution of Language
(pp. 331–337). Singapore: World Scientific.
(2012). Phase periodicity. In A. Gallesgo (ed.), Phases: Developing the
Framework (pp. 67–102). Berlin: Mouton/De Gruyter.
Uttal, W. R. (2001). The New Phrenology: The Limits of Localizing Cognitive
Processes in the Brain. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Uylings, H. B., Mabfeeva, L. I., Bogolepova, I. N., Amunts, K., and Zilles, K.
(1999). Broca’s language area from a neuroanatomical and develop-
mental perspective. In P. Hagoort and C. Brown (eds.), Neurocognition of
Language Processing (pp. 319–336). Oxford University Press.
Valero, A. and Byrne, R. (2007). Spider monkey ranging patterns in
Mexican subtropical forest: Do travel routes reflect planning? Animal
Cognition, 10, 305–315.
van de Meerendonk, N., Kolk, H. H. J., Chwilla, D. J., and Vissers, C. T. W. M.
(2009). Monitoring in language perception. Language and Linguistics
Compass, 3, 1211–1224.
van der Lely, H. K. J. (1996). Specifically language impaired and normally
developing children: Verbal passive vs. adjectival passive sentence
interpretation. Lingua, 98, 243–272.
(1997). Narrative discourse in grammatical specific language impaired
children: A modular language deficit? Journal of Child Language, 24,
221–256.
(2005). Domain-specific cognitive systems: Insight from Grammatical-
SLI. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 9 (2), 53–59.
van der Lely, H. K. J. and Harris, M. (1990). Comprehension of reversible
sentences in specifically language impaired children. Journal of Speech
and Hearing Disorders, 55, 101–117.
van der Lely, H. K. J., Rosen, S., and McClelland, A. (1998). Evidence for a
grammar-specific deficit in children. Current Biology, 8 (23), 1253–1258.
Van Dyke, J. A. (2007). Interference effects from grammatically unavailable
constituents during sentence processing. Journal of Experimental
Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 33 (2), 407–430.
Van Dyke, J. A. and Lewis, R. L. (2003). Distinguishing effects of structure
and decay on attachment and repair: A cue-based parsing account of
recovery from misanalysed ambiguities. Journal of Memory and
Language, 49, 285–316.
Van Dyke, J. A. and McElree, B. (2006). Retrieval interference in sentence
comprehension. Journal of Memory and Language, 55 (2), 157–166.
Van Valin, R. D., Jr. (2005). Exploring the Syntax-Semantics Interface. Cambridge
University Press.
Van Valin, R. D., Jr. and LaPolla, R. (1997). Syntax: Form, Meaning and Function.
Cambridge University Press.
660 References
Vandenberghe, R., Nobre, A. C., and Price, C. J. (2002). The response of
left temporal cortex to sentences. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 14
(4), 550–560.
Vanhaeren, M., d’Errico, F., Stringer, C. et al. (2006). Middle Paleolithic shell
beads in Israel and Algeria. Science, 312, 1785–1788.
Vannest, J., Newport, E. L., Newman, A. J., and Bavelier, D. (2011). Interplay
between morphology and frequency in lexical access: The case of the
base frequency effect. Brain Research, 1373, 144–159.
Vannest, J., Polk, T. A., and Lewis, R. L. (2005). Dual-route processing of
complex words: New fMRI evidence from derivational suffixation.
Cognitive, Affective and Behavioral Neuroscience, 5, 67–76.
Vargha-Khadem, F., Gadian, D. G., Copp, A., and Mishkin, M. (2005). FOXP2
and the neuroanatomy of speech and language. Nature Reviews.
Neuroscience, 6, 131–138.
Vargha-Khadem, F., Watkins, K. E., Alcock, K. J., Fletcher, P., and
Passingham, R. E. (1995). Praxic and nonverbal cognitive deficits
in a large family with a genetically transmitted speech and lan-
guage disorder. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA,
92, 930–933.
Vargha-Khadem, F., Watkins, K. E., Price, C. J. et al. (1998). Neural basis of an
inherited speech and language disorder Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences USA, 95 (21), 12695–12700.
Vartiainen, J., Aggujaro, S., Lehtonen, M. et al. (2009). Neural dynamics of
reading morphologically complex words. Neuroimage, 47, 2064–2072.
Vasishth, S. and Lewis, R. L. (2005). An activation-based model of sen-
tence processing as skilled memory retrieval. Cognitive Sciences, 29,
375–419.
Velayos-Baeza, A., Toma, C., Paracchini, S., and Monaco, A. P. (2008).
The dyslexia-associated gene KIAA0319 encodes highly N- and
O-glycosylated plasma membrane and secreted isoforms. Human
Molecular Genetics, 17, 859–871.
Vercelli, D. (2009). Language in an epigenetic framework. In M. Piattelli-
Palmarini, J. Uriagereka, and P. Salaburu (eds.), Of Minds and Language: A
Dialogue with Noam Chomsky in the Basque Country (pp. 97–107). Oxford
University Press.
Vernes, S. C., Newbury, D. F., Abrahams, B. S. et al. (2008). A functional
genetic link between distinct developmental language disorders. New
England Journal of Medicine, 359, 2337–45.
Vernes, S. C., Nicod, J., Elahi, F. M. et al. (2006). Functional genetic analysis
of mutations implicated in a human speech and language disorder.
Human Molecular Genetics, 15, 3154–3167.
Vernes, S. C., Spiteri, E., Nicod, J. et al. (2007). High-throughput analysis of
promoter occupancy reveals direct neural targets of FOXP2, a gene
mutated in speech and language disorders. American Journal of Human
Genetics, 81, 1232–1250.
References 661
Vigliocco, G. and Franck, J. (1999). When sex and syntax go hand in hand:
Gender agreement in language production. Journal of Memory and
Language, 40, 455–478.
Volpi, E. V. and Bridger, J. M. (2008). FISH glossary: An overview of the
fluorescence in situ hybridization technique. Biotechniques, 45,
385–386, 388, 390, passim.
von Frisch, K. (1967). Honeybees: Do they use direction and distance
information provided by their dancers? Science, 158, 1072–76.
Vosse, T. and Kempen, G. A. M. (2000). Syntactic assembly in human pars-
ing: A computational model based on competitive inhibition and
lexicalist grammar. Cognition, 75, 105–143.
Vouloumanos, A. (2008). Fine-grained sensitivity to statistical information
in adult word learning. Cognition, 107, 729–742.
Waddington, C. H. (1940). Organisers and Genes. Cambridge University Press.
(1942). Canalization of development and the inheritance of acquired
characters. Nature, 150, 563–565.
Wagers, M. (2008). The structure of memory meets memory for structure
in linguistic cognition. Dissertation. University of Maryland.
Wagers, M. and McElree, B. (2009). Focal attention and the timing of
memory retrieval in language comprehension. Talk given at the
Architectures and Mechanisms for Language Processing Conference,
15, September 7–9, Barcelona.
(2010). Memory for linguistic features: Evidence from the dynamics of
agreement. Submitted.
Wagers, M., Lau, E., and Phillips, C. (2009). Agreement attraction in com-
prehension: Representations and processes. Journal of Memory and
Language, 61, 206–237.
Wagner, A. (2005). Robustness and Evolvability in Living Systems. Princeton
University Press.
Wagner, G. P. (1989a). The biological homology concept. Annual Review of
Ecology and Systematics, 20, 51–69.
(1989b). The origin of morphological characters and the biological basis
of homology. Evolution, 43, 1157–1171.
Wagner, G. P., Pavlicev, M., and Cheverud, J. M. (2007). The road to modu-
larity. Nature Reviews Genetics, 8 (12), 921–931.
Wahlsten, D. (1999). Single-gene influences on brain and behavior. Annual
Review of Psychology, 50, 599–624.
Walker, A. and Leakey, R. (eds.) (1993). The Nariokotome Homo erectus Skeleton.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Walker, E., (ed.) (1978). Explorations in the Biology of Language. Montgomery,
VT: Bradford Books.
Wallis, J. D. (2007). Neuronal mechanisms in prefrontal cortex underlying
adaptive choice behavior. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences,
1121, 447–460.
662 References
Wang, Y. Q., Qian, Y. P., Yang, S. et al. (2005). Accelerated evolution of the
pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide precursor gene dur-
ing human origin. Genetics, 170, 801–806.
Wang, Y. Q. and Su, B. (2004). Molecular evolution of microcephalin, a
gene determining human brain size. Human Molecular Genetics, 13,
1131–1137.
Wanner, E. and L. R. Gleitman (eds.) (1982). Language Acquisition: The State of
the Art. Cambridge University Press.
Wanner, E. and Maratsos, M. (1978). An ATN approach to comprehension.
In M. Halle, J. Bresnan, and G. A. Miller, (eds.), Linguistic Theory and
Psychological Reality (pp. 119–161). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Warren, S. M., Brunet, L. J., Harland, R. M., Economides, A. N., and
Longaker, M. T. (2003). The BMP antagonist noggin regulates cranial
suture fusion. Nature, 422, 625–629.
Warren, T. and Gibson, E. (2002). The influence of referential processing on
sentence complexity. Cognition, 85, 79–112.
Warrington, E. K. and McCarthy, R. (1983). Category specific access dyspha-
sia. Brain, 106, 859–878.
Warrington, E. K. and McCarthy, R. (1987). Categories of knowledge:
Further fractionations and an attempted integration. Brain, 110,
1273–1296.
Warrington, E. K. and Shallice, T. (1984). Category specific semantic
impairments. Brain, 107, 829–853.
Wartenburger, I., Heekeren, H. R., Abutalebi, J. et al. (2003). Early setting of
grammatical processing in the bilingual brain. Neuron, 37, 159–170.
Washio, K. (1996). Enigma of Bengalese finches [in Japanese]. Tokyo: Kindai-
Bungei-Sha.
Wasow, T. and Arnold, J. (2005). Intuitions in linguistic argumentation.
Lingua, 115, 1481–1496.
Waterston, R. H., Lindblad-Toh, K., Birney, E. et al. (2002). Initial sequencing
and comparative analysis of the mouse genome. Nature, 420 (6915),
520–562.
Watkins, K. E., Dronkers, N. F., and Vargha-Khadem, F. (2002). Behavioural
analysis of an inherited speech and language disorder: Comparison
with acquired aphasia. Brain, 125, 452–464.
Weaver, T. D. and Hublin, J.-J. (2009). Neanderthal birth canal shape and
the evolution of human childbirth. Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences USA, 106/20, 8151.
Webelhuth, G. (1989). Syntactic saturation phenomena and the modern
Germanic languages. Unpublished doctoral dissertation, University of
Massachusetts, Amherst, MA.
Weber-Fox, C. and Neville, H. J. (1996).Maturationalconstraintson functional
specializations for language processing: ERP and behavioral evidence in
bilingual speakers. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 8, 231–256.
References 663
(1999). Functional neural subsystems are differentially affected by
delays in second language immersion: ERP and behavioral evi-
dence in bilinguals. In D. Birdsong (ed.), Second Language
Acquisition and the Critical Period Hypothesis (pp. 23–38). Mahwah,
NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Weekes, B. and Coltheart, M. (1996). Surface dyslexia and surface dysgra-
phia: Treatment studies and their theoretical implications. Cognitive
Neuropsychology, 13, 277–315.
Weissengruber G. E., Forstenpointner, G., Peters, G., Kübber-Heiss, A.,
and Fitch, W. T. (2002). Hyoid apparatus and pharynx in the lion
(Panthera leo), jaguar (Panthera onca), tiger (Panthera tigris), cheetah
(Acinonyx jubatus), and domestic cat (Felis silvestris f. catus). Journal of
Anatomy, 201, 195–209.
Welsh, M. C. (2002). Developmental and clinical variations in executive
functions. In D. L. Molfese and V. J. Molfese (eds.), Developmental
Variations Learning: Applications to Social, Executive Function, Language,
and Reading Skills, (pp. 139–185). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Wernicke, C. (1874). Der aphasischer Symptomenkomplex: Eine psycho-
logische Studie auf anatomischer Basis. Breslau: Cohnand Weigert.
Translated by G. H. Eggert (1977) in Wernicke’s Works on Aphasia: A
Sourcebook and Review (pp. 91–145). The Hague: Mouton.
(1886). Nervenheilkunde. Die neueren Arbeiten über Aphasie. Fortschritte
der Medizin, 4, 463–482.
West-Eberhard, M. J. (2003). Developmental Plasticity and Evolution. New York:
Oxford University Press.
Wexler, K. (1990). Optional infinitives, head movement and the economy
of derivations in child grammar. Paper presented at the Annual
Meeting of the Society of Cognitive Science, MIT.
(1991). On the argument from the poverty of the stimulus. In A. Kasher
(ed.), The Chomskyan Turn (pp. 252–270). Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
(1992). Optional infinitives, head movement and the economy of deriva-
tion in child grammar. Occasional paper 45. Center for Cognitive
Science, MIT.
(1994). Optional infinitives, head movement and the economy of deriva-
tions. In D. Lightfoot and N. Hornstein (eds.), Verb Movement (pp. 305–
350). New York: Cambridge University Press.
(1996). The development of inflection in a biologically based theory of
language acquisition. In M. L. Rice (ed.), Toward a Genetics of Language
(pp. 113–144). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
(1998a). Very early parameter setting and the unique checking con-
straint: A new explanation of the optional infinitive stage. Lingua,
106, 23–79.
(1998b). Maturation and growth of grammar. Handbook of Child Language
Acquisition. In W. C. Ritchie and T. K. Bhatia (eds.), Handbook of Language
Acquisition (pp. 55–110). New York: Academic Press.
664 References
(2003). Lenneberg’s Dream: Learning, normal language development,
and specific language impairment. In Y. Levy and J. Schaeffer (eds.),
Language Competence Across Populations: Toward a Definition of Specific
Language Impairment (pp. 11–62). Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum. Reprinted
with small changes as Wexler (2004).
(2004). Lenneberg’s dream: Learning, normal language development and
specific language Impairment. In L. Jenkins (ed.), Variation and
Universals in Biolinguistics (pp. 239–284). Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Reprinting with small changes from Wexler (2003).
(2011). Grammatical computation in the optional infinitive stage. In J. de
Villiers and T. Roeper (eds.), Handbook of Language Acquisition (pp. 53–
118). Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Wexler, K., Gavarró, A., and Torrens, V. (2004). Feature checking and object
clitic omission in child Catalan and Spanish. In R. Bok-Bennema,
B. Hollebrandse, B. Kampers-Manhe, and P. Sleeman (eds.), Romance
Languages and Linguistic Theory 2002 (pp. 253–269). Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Wexler, K., Schaeffer, J., and Bol, G. (2004). Verbal syntax and morphology
in typically developing Dutch children and children with SLI: How
developmental data can play an important role in morphological
theory. Syntax, 7, 148–198.
Weyerts, H., Münte, T. F., Smid, H. G. O. M., and Heinze, H.-J. (1996). Mental
representation of morphologically complex words: An event-related
potential study with adult humans. Neuroscience Letters, 206, 125–128.
Weyerts, H., Penke, M., Dohrm, U., Clahsen, H., and Münte, T. F. (1997).
Brain potentials indicate differences between regular and irregular
German plurals. Neuroreport, 8, 957–962.
Whaley, C. P. (1978). Word–nonword classification time. Journal of Verbal
Learning and Verbal Behavior, 17, 143–154.
Wheeldon, L. R. and Monsell, S. (1994). Inhibition of spoken word produc-
tion by priming a semantic competitor. Journal of Memory and Language,
33, 332–356.
Whitaker, H. A. (1998). Neurolinguistics from the middle ages to the pre-
modern era: Historical vignettes. In B. Stemmer and H.A. Whitaker
(eds.), Handbook of Neurolinguistics (pp. 27–54). San Diego, CA: Academic
Press.
White, L. (1996). The tale of the ugly duckling. In A. Stringfellow, D. Cahana-
Amitay, E. Hughes, and A. Zukowski (eds.), BUCLD 20 (pp. 1–17).
Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
White, R. (1982). Rethinking the Middle/Upper Paleolithic transition.
Current Anthropology, 23, 169–192.
White, S. A. (2010). Genes and vocal learning. Brain and Language, 115,
21–28.
White, S. A., Fisher, S. E., Geschwind, D. H., Scharff, C., and Holy, T. E.
(2006). Singing mice, songbirds, and more: Models for FOXP2 function
References 665
and dysfunction in human speech and language. Journal of Neuroscience,
26 (41), 10376–10379.
Wickelgren, W. A. (1977). Speed-accuracy tradeoff and information pro-
cessing dynamics. Acta Psychologica, 41, 67–85.
Wickelgren, W. A., Corbett, A. T., and Dosher, B. A. (1980). Priming and
retrieval from short-term memory: A speed accuracy trade-off analy-
sis. Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior, 19, 387–404.
Wightman, C. W., Shattuck-Hufnagel, S., Ostendorf, M., and Price, P. J.
(1992). Segmental durations in the vicinity of prosodic phrase boun-
daries. Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, 91, 1707–1717.
Wild, M. J. and Arends, J. J. A. (1987). A respiratory-vocal pathway in the
brainstem of the pigeon. Brain Research, 407 (1), 191–194.
Wiles, J., Watson, J., Tonkes, B., and Deacon, T. W. (2005). Transient phe-
nomena in learning and evolution: genetic assimilation and genetic
redistribution. Artificial Life, 11 (1–2), 177–188.
Wilkins, R. H. (1992). Neurosurgical Classics. Park Ridge, IL: American
Association of Neurological Surgeons.
Williams, H. and Nottebohm, F. (1985). Auditory responses in avian vocal
motor neurons: A motor theory for song perception in birds. Science,
229 (4710), 279.
Williams, H. and Staples, K. (1992). Syllable chunking in zebra finch
(Taeniopygia guttata) song. Journal of Comparative Psychology, 106 (3),
278–286.
Williams, J. and O’Donovan, M. C. (2006). The genetics of developmental
dyslexia. European Journal of Human Genetics, 4, 681–689.
Wilson, H. L., Crolla, J. A., Walker, D. et al. (2008). Interstitial 22q13
deletions: Genes other than SHANK3 have major effects on cognitive
and language development. European Journal of Human Genetics, 16,
1301–1310.
Wilson, H. L., Wong, A. C. C., Shaw, S. R. et al. (2003). Molecular character-
isation of the 22q13 deletion syndrome supports the role of haploin-
sufficiency of SHANK3/PROSAP2 in the major neurological symptoms.
Journal of Medical Genetics, 40, 575–584.
Wilson, L. and Maden. M. (2005). The mechanisms of dorsoventral
patterning in the vertebrate neural tube. Developmental Biology,
282, 1–13.
Wilson, N. D., Ross, L. J. N., Crow, T. J., and Volpi, E. V. (2006). PCDH11 is X/Y
homologous in Homo sapiens but not in Gorilla gorilla and Pan troglodytes.
Cytogenetic and Genome Research, 114, 137–139.
Wilson, S. M. (2009). Speech perception when the motor system is compro-
mised. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 13, 329–330.
Wilson, S. M., Isenberg, A. L., and Hickok, G. (2009). Neural corre-
lates of word production stages delineated by parametric mod-
ulation of psycholinguistic variables. Human Brain Mapping, 30,
3596–3608.
666 References
Wilson, S. M., Saygin, A. P., Sereno, M. I., and Iacoboni, M. (2004). Listening
to speech activates motor areas involved in speech production. Nature
Neuroscience, 7, 701–702.
Wimmer, H. and Perner, J. (1983). Beliefs about beliefs: Representation and
constraining function of wrong beliefs in children’s understanding of
deception. Cognition, 13, 103–128.
Wimsatt, W. (1999). Generativity, entrenchment, evolution, and innate-
ness: Philosophy, evolutionary biology, and conceptual foundations
of science. In V. G. Hardcastle (ed.), Where Biology Meets Psychology.
Psychological Essays (pp. 139–179). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Winkler, I., Lehtokoski, A., Alku, P. et al. (1999). Pre-attentive detection of
vowel contrasts utilizes both phonetic and auditory memory repre-
sentations. Brain Research. Cognitive Brain Research, 7 (3), 357–369.
Winkler, I., Paavilainen, P., Alho, K. et al. (1990). The effect of small varia-
tion of the frequent auditory stimulus on the event-related brain
potential to the infrequent stimulus. Psychophysiology, 27 (2), 228–235.
Winterer, G. and Goldman, D. (2003). Genetics of human prefrontal func-
tion. Brain Research Reviews, 43, 134–163.
Wolffe, A. P. and Matzke, M. A. (1999). Epigenetics: Regulation through
repression. Science, 286, 481–486.
Woods, C. G. (2004). Human microcephaly. Current Opinion in Neurobiology,
14, 1–6.
Woods, R. P., Freimer, N. B., De Young, J. A. et al. (2006). Normal variants of
Microcephalin and ASPM do not account for brain size variability.
Human Molecular Genetics, 15, 2025–2029.
Woodward, A. (2008). Infants’ learning about intentional action. In
A. Woodward and A. Needham (eds.), Learning and the Infant Mind
(pp. 227–248). Oxford University Press.
Worden, R. (1998). The evolution of language from social intelligence.
In J. R. Hurford, M. Studdert-Kennedy, and C. Knight (eds.),
Approaches to the Evolution of Language (pp. 148–68). Cambridge
University Press.
Wray, A. (1998). Protolanguage as a holistic system for social interaction.
Language and Communication, 18 (1), 47–67.
Wu, C. W.-H., Bichot, N. P., and Kaas, J. H. (2000). Converging evidence from
microstimulation, architecture, and connections for multiple motor
areas in the frontal and cingulate cortex of prosimian primates. Journal
of Comparative Neurology, 423, 140–177.
Wynn, T. (1996). The evolution of tools and symbolic behaviour. In
A. Lock and C. R. Peters (eds.), Handbook of Human Symbolic Evolution
(pp. 263–287). Oxford and Malden, MA: Blackwell.
Wynn, T. and Coolidge, F. L. (2004). The expert Neandertal mind. Journal of
Human Evolution, 46, 467–487.
(2007). Did a small but significant enhancement in working-memory
capacity power the evolution of modern thinking? In P. Mellars,
References 667
K. Boyle, O. Bar-Yosef, and C. Stringer (eds.), Rethinking the Human
Revolution: New Behavioural and Biological Perspectives on the Origin and
Dispersal of Modern Humans (pp. 79–90). Cambridge: McDonald
Institute for Archaeological Research.
Xiang, L., Dillon, B., and Phillips, C. (2009). Illusory licensing effects
across dependency types: ERP evidence. Brain and Language, 108,
40–55.
Xu, J., Kemeny, S., Park, G., Frattali, C., and Braun, A. (2005). Language in
context: emergent features of word, sentence, and narrative compre-
hension. Neuroimage, 25, 1002–1015.
Xu, X., Lee, J., and Stern, D. F. (2004). Microcephalin is a DNA damage
response protein involved in regulation of CHK1 and BRCA1. Journal
of Biological Chemistry, 279, 34091–34094.
Yamada, J. E. (1990). Laura: A Case for the Modularity of Language. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Yang, C. D. (2000). Knowledge and learning in natural language. Doctoral
dissertation, MIT.
(2002). Knowledge and Learning in Natural Language. New York: Oxford
University Press.
(2004). Universal Grammar, statistics, or both? Trends in Cognitive Sciences,
8 (10), 451–456.
Yeni-Komshian, G. H. and Benson, D. A. (1976). Anatomical study of cere-
bral asymmetry in the temporal lobe of humans, chimpanzees, and
rhesus monkeys. Science, (192), 387–389.
Yeung, H. H. and Phillips, C. (2004). Phonological features distinct from
phonemes in auditory cortex. 11th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive
Neuroscience Society.
Yin, H. H., Davis, M. I., Ronesi, J. A., and Lovinger, D. M. (2006). The role of
protein synthesis in striatal long-term depression. Journal of
Neuroscience, 26, 11811–11820.
Yngve, V. H. (1960). A model and an hypothesis for language structure.
Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, 104, 444–466.
Yokoyama, S., Miyamoto, T., Riera, J. et al. (2006). Cortical mechanisms
involved in the processing of verbs: An fMRI study. Journal of Cognitive
Neuroscience, 18, 1304–1313.
Yoshinaga-Itano, C. (2003). From screening to early identification and
intervention: Discovering predictors to successful outcomes for chil-
dren with significant hearing loss. Journal of Deaf Studies and Deaf
Education, 8, 11–30.
Yoshinaga-Itano, C. and Apuzzo, M. L. (1998a). Identification of hearing loss
after age 18 months is not early enough. American Annals of the Deaf,
143, 380–387.
(1998b). The development of deaf and hard of hearing children identified
early through the high-risk registry. American Annals of the Deaf, 143,
416–424.
668 References
Yu, C. and Smith, L. B. (2007). Rapid word learning under uncertainty via
cross-situational statistics. Psychological Science, 18, 414–420.
Yu, F., Hill, R. S., Schaffner, S. F. et al. (2007). Comment on “Ongoing adap-
tive evolution of ASPM, a brain size determinant in Homo sapiens.”
Science, 316, 370.
Yu, G., Zerucha, T., Ekker, M., and Rubenstein, J. L. R. (2001). Evidence that
GRIP, a PDZ-domain protein which is expressed in the embryonic
forebrain, coactivates transcription with DLX homeodomain proteins.
Brain Research: Developmental Brain Research, 130, 217–230.
Zahavi, A. (1975). Mate selection: A selection for a handicap. Journal of
Theoretical Biology, 53 (1), 205–214.
(1977). The cost of honesty (further remarks on the handicap principle).
Journal of Theoretical Biology, 67, 603–605.
Zangl, R. and Fernald, A. (2007). Increasing flexibility in children’s online
processing of grammatical and nonce determiners in fluent speech.
Language Learning and Development, 3, 199–231.
Zelazo, P. D., Frye, D., and Rapus, T. (1996). An age-related dissociation
between knowing rules and using them. Cognitive Development, 11,
37–63.
Zhang, J. (2003). Evolution of the human ASPM gene, a major determinant
of brain size. Genetics, 165, 2063–2070.
Ziff, E.B. (1997). Enlightening the postsynaptic density. Neuron, 19, 1163–
1174.
Zilhão, J., Angelucci, D. E., Badal-Garcı́a, E. et al. (2009). Symbolic use of
marine shells and mineral pigments by Iberian Neanderthals.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA, 107, 1023–1028.
Zilhão, J., d’Errico, F., Bordes, J.-G. et al. (2006). Analysis of Aurignacian
interstratification at the Châtelperronian-type site and implications
for the behavioral modernity of Neandertals. Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences USA, 103/33, 12643–12648.
Zondervan, K. T. and Cardon, L. R. (2007). Designing candidate gene and
genome-wide case–control association studies. Nature Protocols 2,
2492–2501.
Zuberbühler, K. (2000). Interspecific semantic communication in two for-
est monkeys. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London Series B-Biological
Sciences, 267, 713–718.
(2001). Predator-specific alarm calls in Campbell’s monkeys,
Cercopithecus campbelli. Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology, 50, 414–422.
(2002). A syntactic rule in forest monkey communication. Animal
Behaviour, 63, 293–299.
(2005). Linguistic prerequisites in the primate lineage. In M. Tallerman
(ed.), Language Origins (pp. 262–682). Oxford University Press.
Zuberbühler, K., Cheney, D. L., and Seyfarth, R. M. (1999). Conceptual
semantics in a nonhuman primate. Journal of Comparative Psychology,
113, 33–42.
References 669
Zuidema, W. (2003). How the poverty of the stimulus solves the poverty of
the stimulus. In S. Becker, S. Thrun, and K. Obermayer (eds.), Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems 15 (Proceedings of NIPS’02) (pp. 51–58).
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Zwaan, R. A. (2003). The immersed experiencer: Toward an embodied
theory of language comprehension. Psychology of Learning and
Motivation, 44, 35–62.
670 References
Index
acceptability judgments, 56–7, 73, 126, 181,
183–92, 194–202, 215, 218, 223, 236, 251,
280, 295, 320, 344, 347, See also reliability
adaptation, 225, 328, 337, 455, 460, 469, 471–4,
476–8, 481, 519
adequacy, 26
descriptive, 26, 28, 34–5, 43
explanatory, 14, 20, 26–7, 32, 34, 43
age of onset, 72–3, 75, 78–85
agrammatism, 9, 14–15, 51, 56, 60, 343
alarm calls, 419–20, 426–8, 462, 538
anomia, 61–2, 350, 358–60, 362–6, 369–70,
373–4, 401
aphasia, 4, 7, 9, 13–14, 16, 20, 60–1, 234, 237–9,
299, 333, 342–8, 359, 363–4, 370–3, 390, 401
archaeology, 30, 415, 489–90, 499–503, 505, 507
asymptotic accuracy, 210–12, 215, 220, 223–4
autism, 52–3, 68, 385, 390, 392, 401, 518
Baldwin Effect, 473–4, 476
basal ganglia, 80, 294, 300, 307, 385–6, 394,
437–8, 446, 448, 490, 509, 511, 522
bilingualism, 3, 61, 70–1, 73, 80, 84,
160–77, 529
biolinguistics, 1–7, 9–13, 16, 18–19, 21–24, 35,
39–40, 45–6, 85, 95–6, 100–2, 107, 110, 113,
120, 122, 125, 127–8, 233–4, 236, 251, 350,
373, 438, 457, 460–1, 473–4, 477–8, 524
biological data, 95–7, 100, 109, 128
biology, 1, 3–7, 9–14, 16,
18–20, 22–3, 28–30, 35–6, 39–41, 44–6, 50–1,
59, 69, 95–7, 99–100, 102, 107, 109–11, 113,
122, 125, 127–8, 232–4, 236, 250, 254, 326,
328, 330–1, 340, 369, 375–7, 379, 381, 383,
392, 396, 397, 399, 400, 402, 404–8, 410–12,
415–16, 431, 438, 449, 457, 459, 461–2,
466–7, 472–4, 476–7, 488, 497, 508, 516,
523, 526–7
developmental, 2
evolutionary, 6, 235, 410
evolutionary developmental, 510, See also
evo-devo
molecular, 7–8
neurobiology, 7, 20, 95–6, 235, 257–8, 267,
279, 281, 283–5, 294–5, 297, 299, 303,
306–7, 310, 316, 324, 383, 397, 399, 409–10,
517, 523
birdsong, 6, 17, 431–59, 499
song learning, 386, 432–4, 437–8, 445, 447–8,
453–8
song syllable, 433, 440, 446–8
bootstrapping, 3, 67, 70
brain, 2–3, 5–6, 9, 14–18, 20,
39, 41, 49, 50, 54–60,
63–4, 72, 79–81, 85, 94–5, 106, 114, 116,
125–6, 160, 162–4, 182, 201, 233–6, 238, 248,
251–5, 257–62, 268, 271, 279, 281, 283–5,
287, 301–4, 306–7, 310–18, 320, 324–32,
334–5, 337–40, 350, 355, 366, 369–70, 372,
374, 376, 380–3, 385, 387–8, 394–410,
416–17, 432, 435–8, 440, 442–3, 445–6, 448,
455–7, 459, 482, 485–91, 507–15, 517–22
asymmetries, 5–6
imaging, 15, 18, 20, 55, 57–61, 80–1, 85, 126,
164, 234, 237–9, 248, 258, 260–1, 266,
270–1, 279, 288, 292, 294, 296–8, 315, 322,
329, 334, 345, 350, 370, 372, 397–8, 448,
531, 534
lateralization, 5, 7, 72, 78, 519–20
left hemisphere, 6, 62, 80–1, 254, 260, 342,
348, 370, 372, 389, 395
morphology, 5, 515
physiology, 114, 125–6, 521
right hemisphere, 56, 59, 80–1,
389, 520
Broca’s area, 3, 54, 56–9, 63, 79–80, 126,
262, 264, 268, 270, 294, 309, 321, 335,
341–8, 371–3, 398, 436, 445, 508, 520
Brodmann Area, 56, 63, 79, 261, 264, 275–6,
282, 301, 307, 326, 329, 341, 371, 373,
531–3
buffer, 204, 221, 224, 353–4, 357–8, 360, 362–4,
367–8, 371–3
categorization, 53, 92, 339, 354–5, 364, 399
category, 62–3, 91, 262, 267, 351
category (cont.)
adjective, 65, 88, 90, 92, 148, 266, 313,
320–1, 364
noun, 61–4, 66–7, 83, 88, 90–3, 106, 115, 148,
193, 217, 228–9, 266–7, 269, 277, 286,
300–1, 312–13, 320–1, 334, 345, 354–5, 364,
532–3
verb, 61–7, 82–4, 88, 90–3, 97–9, 102–3, 105–7,
109, 112, 114–16, 118–19, 121, 123, 125–7,
132–3, 136, 138–40, 148–51, 154, 193,
207–8, 215–19, 222–3, 227–8, 231, 266–8,
270, 272–3, 286, 295, 298, 300–1, 304–5,
312–14, 317–18, 334, 345, 353–5, 364, 371,
440, 527, 529, 530–1, 533
chemistry, 8, 18, 34, 44, 379, 381–2, 402, 406,
436, 487, 519
children, 1, 3–4, 7, 14, 27–9, 36, 41, 53, 55, 61, 64,
66–7, 70–5, 79–80, 82–5, 91, 94, 97–101, 105,
107–8, 112–20, 122–7, 131, 133–47, 149–51,
153–4, 156–8, 160–2, 165–6, 173–4, 193,
234, 264, 293, 295, 329, 356, 365–7, 369,
493–4, 527–8, 535
chromosome, 7, 50, 122–4, 126, 378–80, 389,
391, 513, 520, 528
chunking, 214, 230, 438–43, 445–6, 459
clitic, 82–3, 99, 113–14, 116, 118, 127
cognition, 1, 3, 9, 18, 23, 25, 30, 36, 40, 49, 50–4,
56, 58–9, 63–4, 66–7, 69–70, 74–6, 94–6,
111–12, 125–6, 130, 151, 160–3, 173–7,
182–3, 185, 191–2, 202, 212, 214, 220,
233–6, 240, 248, 250–2, 255, 258, 262,
268–9, 274, 276–8, 280, 285–7, 293–5,
300–2, 306, 309–12, 314, 316, 318, 324–41,
343, 346–8, 350, 359, 372, 376–8, 380–5,
388–97, 399–402, 407, 409–10, 415–17, 423,
430, 436, 455, 475, 478, 489–90, 492, 501–3,
505–6, 509, 511, 514, 516–19, 521–3, 527,
529, 531, 534–7
cognitive bias, 189–90
combinatorial system, 29, 235, 294
communication, 7, 14, 50, 53, 69, 106, 162, 172,
227, 257, 279, 325, 336, 340, 369, 377, 390,
407, 411–12, 415–16, 419, 423–5, 427–30,
435, 462–3, 467, 469, 480–4, 487–8, 492,
497, 499, 512, 519, 538
competence, 1, 58, 64, 72–3, 76, 78, 84, 124, 126,
235–6, 279, 344, 375–8, 381, 383–5, 389–90,
392–3, 396–7, 400–2, 407, 409–10, 485,
518, 521
complementizer, 8, 135–6, 273
complex NP, 190, 193, 197
complex systems, 326, 461, 468, 476
complexity, 13, 15, 17, 19, 22, 25, 27–30, 33, 45,
50, 61, 68, 91–2, 94, 133, 184, 193, 197,
202–3, 209, 215–19, 224–6, 230, 238–9,
248–9, 254, 257, 259, 264, 279, 287–9,
291–2, 301, 306, 310, 313, 316, 320–2, 326,
329–30, 333, 336, 345, 351–3, 363, 373, 377,
381–4, 392, 399, 405–8, 410–12, 416–18,
422–3, 430, 435, 439, 441, 443, 446, 448–57,
459–60, 467–8, 472, 477, 481, 484, 486, 492,
496, 498–500, 502–6, 511, 516, 519, 522
compositionality, 206, 209, 218, 257, 289–90,
316–18, 320, 335, 435, 444, 469–72
computation, 3, 8, 14, 16, 18–20, 29, 31, 36, 38–9,
45, 53, 55–6, 59–62, 68, 86, 94, 97, 99–100,
106, 109, 120–1, 147, 150, 156, 158–9,
182–4, 196, 200–3, 224–6, 235, 238–9, 258,
262–3, 266–7, 271, 278, 281, 283, 285,
287–8, 293, 297–303, 310–11, 314, 316, 318,
320, 324, 327, 329, 337–9, 343–5, 347, 349,
379, 386, 394, 396–8, 400, 460–1, 467, 473,
475–7, 490, 505–7, 510–12, 523
computational primitives, 233, 257–8, 267, 271,
283–7, 292–3, 298–9, 301–3, 306
computational system, 99, 339, 405
concept, 22, 24–5, 30, 40–3, 45, 65–6, 96, 128,
164, 221, 298, 310, 350, 351, 357–8, 360,
419–22
conflict monitoring, 167, 169–70, 172, 175–6
conflict resolution, 167, 170–3, 175, 347, 529
cortex, 54, 57, 164, 182, 234, 237, 241, 248–50,
260–2, 264, 267, 274–7, 279, 282, 285–7,
291, 301–2, 307–8, 318, 322–3, 327–8,
330–2, 334–5, 341–4, 348, 370–1, 373,
388–9, 391, 393, 401, 436–7, 445–6, 448,
458, 508–14, 521, 531, 534
critical period, 3–4, 7, 14, 66, 71–2, 75–8, 84–5,
175, 369, 386, 404
cues, 83, 86–7, 89–90, 145, 156–7, 166, 205–6,
210, 215, 221–3, 225–6, 228, 230–1, 243,
274–6, 361–2, 367–8, 389, 418, 441, 444–5,
528
culture, 69, 160, 177, 330, 376, 378, 420–1, 430,
434, 449, 456, 460–1, 465–8, 471–8, 490–1,
503, 506
deafness, 4, 71, 238, 239
dependency, 53–4, 56–8, 61, 198, 206, 217–18,
222–5, 227–31, 261–4, 268–71, 279, 287,
306, 511
structural, 53–4, 56–7, 59
syntactic, 55–6, 68, 263
Derivational Theory of Complexity, 183–4
developmental delay, 60, 112, 386, 391
dialect, 14, 156, 191, 193
direct access, 74, 221–2
displacement, 55–7, 59, 217–18, 263, 268,
487–8, 506
distinctive features, 25, 236–7, 240, 242, 245
DNA, 13, 18, 123, 379–80, 403, 489–90, 498, 513,
522, 526
domains of grammar, 76, 79, 81, 85
domestication, 448–50, 452, 454–7
dyslexia, 4, 7, 338, 361, 368, 387–9, 392–3, 395,
397, 410, 517–18
EEG, 15, 19, 80, 240–1, 252–4, 294,
306, 318
electrophysiological response, 182, 241–2,
250, 305
ellipsis, 223–5
environment, 1, 8, 16, 20, 45, 69, 71, 98, 109–11,
117–18, 120, 127, 160, 163–4, 258, 378,
381–2, 387, 394, 399, 405–7, 411–12, 417,
422, 453–7, 462, 472, 484, 519, See also three
factors
ERP, 80–1, 236, 252, 255, 289, 294–5, 304, 306,
315, 319, 536
evo-devo, 15, 17, 20, 30, 44, 490, 510
executive control, 161–4, 166–7, 171, 173–7, 529
processes, 162–7, 173–7
extrametricality, 137–8, 141–3, 145–7, 157, 528
fast mapping, 64, 67
feature interpretability, 61
672 Index
filler-gap, 55–8, 269, 530
finch, 386, 433–5, 438–57, 459
finiteness, 19, 29–30, 82–4, 97–9, 101–13,
116–23, 125, 127, 423, 435, 439, 440, 443–4,
452, 456, 458–9, 468, 480, 505, 527–8
fMRI, 15, 19, 53, 57, 63, 79–81, 126, 214, 236,
238–9, 249, 251, 253, 254–5, 261, 263, 265,
291–2, 297, 300–1, 306–7, 322, 371, 446, 532
focal attention, 204, 206, 208–9, 212–21, 223,
230–1, 530
fossil, 3, 460, 489–99, 507–9, 512
FOXP2, 16–17, 50–1, 336, 385–7, 391, 393, 395,
403–4, 437–8, 458, 498–9, 516–19, 521–2
generative grammar, 4–6
generative phonology, 236–7
generative syntax, 181, 190, 440
genetic endowment, 7 See three factors
Genetic Uniformity Hypothesis, 114
genetics, 2, 4, 9, 12, 15–17, 19–20, 41, 44, 49–51,
54, 69, 96, 100–1, 109–14, 117–18, 120–8,
326–31, 336–8, 369, 375, 377–83, 392, 395,
397, 398–9, 401–2, 405–7, 409–12, 433, 438,
448, 453–4, 456, 460, 473, 479, 489, 491,
499, 511, 514, 518, 522, 528
genome, 17–18, 28–30, 44–5, 94, 110–11, 121–2,
328, 380, 384, 411, 462, 464, 490, 507
genotype, 20, 375, 384, 407, 476, 479
gradience, 200–2, 249
grammar, 8–9, 26–9, 31, 43, 51–4, 57, 61, 64, 66,
72, 74–5, 77–8, 81, 85, 98–9, 101, 103, 106–7,
112, 118–19, 122, 124, 130, 133–7, 141,
143–5, 151–8, 192–3, 200, 218, 234–5, 258,
261–2, 279–81, 286, 293–4, 328, 333, 435,
444, 468–70, 475, 485–6, 490–1, 511, 527,
532
final state, 7
initial state, 7, 74, 467
grammaticality, 81, 126, 192, 196, 201–2, 207,
229, 261, 265, 280, 313, 317, 531
grammaticality preference/judgments, 344 See
acceptability judgments
gyrus, 56, 79–80, 214, 237, 264, 282, 285–6, 301,
307, 342, 370, 373, 391, 395, 531
inferior frontal gyrus, 56–8, 126, 261–4,
267–71,
274–9, 282, 286–7, 291–2, 296–7, 301–2,
305–7, 341, 370–3, 445, 531, 533–5
superior temporal gyrus, 56, 237–40, 249, 264,
282, 292, 364, 371, 373
head directionality, 132–3, 138–40
heritability, 15–16, 20, 110–11, 117–22, 336, 387,
389–90, 513, 526
hominids, 481, 485, 489–90, 492, 495–7, 500,
502–3, 507–9, 514
hypothesis space, 65, 130, 133, 136–7, 143–4,
146, 151, 154, 157, 311
infants, 7, 86–93, 174, 256, 327, 348, 445
inflection, 8, 60, 66, 82, 84, 98–9, 102, 107–8,
112, 116, 118, 283–4, 291, 293–6, 298–302,
354, 383, 393
inhibitory processes, 165–7, 169–70, 172, 175
innateness, 4, 14, 23–5, 27–9, 40–3, 45, 49–51,
64, 69, 131, 375–6, 400, 405, 411–12, 433–4,
454–5, 458, 461–3, 473–6, 524, 526, 537–8
interface, 17, 29, 53, 61, 232–3, 266, 283–5, 287,
299, 305, 307, 336, 411
interference, 165–6, 175, 206, 222, 225–30,
232–33, 388
intonation, 88
islands, 190, 197–9
island effects, 190, 197–200, 202
iterated learning, 465–8, 470–2, 474–7
label, 65, 205, 279, 459
LAN, 294, 296, 303–5, 307
language
creative aspect, 27, 34, 37–9
evolution, 2–7, 11, 14, 28–30, 35, 44, 415, 430,
449, 457–8, 460–1, 468–9, 471–3, 476,
478–80, 484–6, 488–92, 497, 503, 507, 509,
519–23
instinct, 2, 49–51, 53–5, 58–9, 64, 67–8
neurocognition, 271, 284, 293, 297,
303, 307
neurology, 5–6, 9
language acquisition, 2–4, 7–10, 14–16, 20,
27–30, 41, 44, 50, 54–5, 57–62, 64–7, 69–87,
90, 92, 96–7, 102–3, 105–10, 112, 125, 131,
133, 136–7, 140–7, 149–59, 164, 176–7, 255,
293, 297, 327, 333, 338, 375, 384, 392, 410,
439, 444–5, 464, 466–7, 473
bilingual first, 70–1, 82, 84–5
second, 55, 69, 73–6, 78–85, 101–9, 164, 172,
176, 394
Language Acquisition Device, 7, 70, 71,
73–7, 84
language change, 9, 461, 474, 491
language design, 14, 18, See also three factors
language disorders, 3–4, 9, 14, 16, 20, 50–1, 59,
61–2, 120, 251, 335–6, 338, 342–3, 358–70,
376–8, 380–1, 383–4, 391, 392–7, 399–402,
407, 409–10, 458, 516, 519
language faculty, 4, 8, 36–7, 39, 94, 109, 200–1,
259, 261, 281, 329, 375–8, 380, 382–3, 400,
405–12, 467, 474, 476–7, 488–90, 527
broad, 376, 411–12
narrow, 261, 376, 411
Language Making Capacity, 69–71, 75, 84
larynx, 492–5, 497
learnability, 55, 64–5, 135, 142, 456, 472
learner, 3, 36, 50, 52, 55, 57, 64–71, 73–80, 82–5,
101–3, 105–9, 115, 132–3, 137, 142–3,
146–7, 150–9, 458, 464–6, 469–72,
475, 528
lesion, 56, 58, 62–3, 234, 251–2, 260, 296, 300,
342–4, 347–8, 370–3, 394, 397, 437, 440,
445–7
level
algorithmic, 182–3, 201
computational, 182
implementational, 182–3
lexical representations, 66, 232, 235, 250, 334
lexicon, 8, 15, 19, 64–8, 86–7, 93, 232, 235,
246–7, 289, 299, 350, 358, 363, 385, 465,
467, 469
orthographic lexicon, 352–3, 357–8
phonological lexicon, 246, 352–3, 357–8,
360–2, 367–8, 370–3
semantic lexicon, 351–2, 355–60, 362, 367–8,
370–1, 373
syntactic lexicon, 354–6, 358, 364, 371
Index 673
linearity, 53–4, 57–8, 148, 198–9, 225, 266, 268,
280, 300, 450, 454–5, 510
linearization, 29, 30, 56, 265–6
linguistic savant, 9, 16, 20, 58–9
linking hypothesis, 182–4, 191, 193, 195–6,
199–200, 202–3
magnitude estimation, 187–8, 195,
198–200, 202
maintenance, 162–3, 197, 204, 209, 214, 218,
220, 447–8, 455–6, 466–7, 514
mathematics, 9, 21, 26–7, 31, 36, 45, 95, 129,
151, 461
maturation, 3, 14, 16, 50, 69, 71, 73–81, 84–5,
94–7, 101–2, 109, 112, 118–19, 127, 386,
391, 404
MEG, 15, 18–19, 236, 239–41, 243, 245,
248–50, 253–5, 261, 291, 306, 318, 320,
322–3, 370–1
memory, 41, 55, 58, 67, 109, 115, 142, 203–6,
208, 210, 212–17, 220–6, 228–30, 232, 236,
267, 287, 294, 301, 332–3, 335–9, 389, 394,
404, 417, 436, 451, 459, 492
associative, 294–5, 297
declarative, 294, 304, 333
long-term, 204, 221, 240, 506
phonological short-term, 115–17, 120–2, 124,
345–6, 353, 363, 368, 393
procedural, 125, 128, 294, 333, 336
working, 3, 56, 58, 163, 197, 199–200, 204,
209, 215, 221, 225–6, 262, 264, 269, 282,
286, 345, 385, 387–8, 398, 505–7, 511–12
Merge, 29–30, 41, 53, 56, 58–60, 62, 232–3,
258–9, 261–3, 266–7, 277–82, 303
internal Merge, 29, 262, 263, 264, 265, 266,
282, 532, See also Move
mind, 2–3, 17, 22–3, 25, 27–9, 32–46, 54, 71,
74–5, 95, 96, 148–50, 160, 323–4, 329, 337,
339–40, 375, 411, 419, 485, 505–6
Minimalist Program, 7, 9, 16, 22, 29, 31, 44, 54,
61, 259, 267, 383, 410
Mismatch Magnetic Field, 240–1, 245–8
Mismatch Negativity, 240–8, 250
modularity, 3, 14–20, 37–40, 49, 51, 53, 74, 285,
326–31, 336–40, 376, 400, 410, 412, 521
morphology, 3, 9, 19, 52, 60–2, 64, 66, 68, 77, 79,
80, 82–4, 97–8, 101–2, 106–7, 121, 196, 228,
283–307, 333, 352–3, 363, 369, 385, 393,
432, 449, 493–4, 497, 514, 534–6
motif, 331, 391, 433
motor, 61, 125, 163, 234–5, 250, 262, 264, 267,
274, 279, 282, 287, 329, 333–4, 336, 338–9,
342, 346, 348–9, 354, 372–3, 385–7, 389–90,
394, 398, 411–12, 430, 433–4, 436–43,
445–8, 458, 512, 515–18, 520, 522–3
Motor Theory of speech perception,
234, 348–9
Move, 14, 29, 55–8, 138, 140, 151, 224,
227, 232, 262–6, 345, 532, 533, See also Merge
internal
music processing, 59–60, 287, 341, 496
mutation, 15, 22, 29, 30, 45, 330, 338, 377, 382,
385–9, 391–3, 395, 400, 405, 408, 437,
456–7, 462–3, 473, 486, 498, 511,
513–21, 532
natural science, 7, 22–6, 28, 31, 34–5, 38–40, 43,
45, 95
natural selection, 3, 30, 45, 416–17, 462, 465,
473, 476–80, 482–3, 485–8, 511, 523
Neanderthal, 490, 492–504, 506–7
neocortex, 326, 328, 331, 509
neural plasticity, 7, 78, 386–7, 389, 391, 404,
406, 517
neurolinguistics, 7, 182, 266, 268, 270, 311, 320,
323, 398
non-human primates, 3, 5–6, 54, 415–20, 423,
427–8, 430, 437, 458, 481, 484, 493–4, 496,
507, 514, 517, 519–20, 531, 538
ape, 6, 95, 418, 423, 428, 430, 481–2,
484, 513
bonobo, 415, 430
chimpanzee, 6, 17, 328, 331, 415–16, 418,
420–2, 428–30, 437, 484, 495–7, 499,
514–15, 517–18
macaque, 327, 348, 418
monkey, 6, 241, 418–20, 424–5, 427–8, 462,
480–3, 494, 508, 513
orangutan, 6, 517
non-word repetition, 115, 121–4, 353–4, 359–63,
367–8
ontogeny, 4, 20, 35, 44, 69, 378, 381,
394, 399, 400, 405–8, 410–12, 494, 512,
521–2
optional infinitive, 97–9, 101–5, 107–9, 112–14,
116–17, 120–3, 125–8, 527
Extended Optional Infinitive stage, 101, 112,
114, 116, 124, 127
organ, 17, 22, 35–6, 44–5, 54, 59, 95, 412, 417,
480, 497, 511
paleoanthropology, 494, 499, 501
parameter setting, 29, 98–100, 107–9, 135–7,
140–1, 143–4, 150, 158–9
resetting, 74, 152–3
paraphasia, 238–9, 359–60, 362, 367–9
parser, 182, 196, 201, 224–5, 229, 235,
279–81
passive, 53, 55–6, 118–19, 122, 127, 204, 221,
285, 301
performance, 52, 94, 124, 143–4, 164–5, 167,
169–70, 177, 210, 230, 235, 251, 279, 287,
299, 323, 336, 345–6, 349, 363, 367–8,
376–7, 396–7, 407, 447–84
PET, 15, 79, 238, 255, 301, 308, 322
phase, 18, 29, 56
phenotype, 15–17, 20, 51, 376, 378–84, 386, 397,
399, 405, 407–8, 410, 476, 510, 514, 518
philosophy, 1–2, 22–3, 32, 34–5, 37–8, 40,
42–3, 45
phoneme, 87, 236–7, 239–40, 244,
247, 249, 309, 352–4, 358, 361, 363, 368, 432
phonetics, 9, 29–30, 61, 196, 237–40, 242–5, 248,
309, 342, 349, 353–4, 363, 372, 398, 444,
482–3
phonology, 3, 9, 13, 19, 30, 49, 55, 57, 62, 77–9,
81, 83, 88–9, 92–3, 115, 121–2, 124, 137, 176,
196, 213, 233–41, 243–52, 255, 267, 283,
285, 289–90, 292, 296–9, 302, 306–7, 309,
317, 338, 345–7, 352–63, 365–8, 370–3, 377,
385–90, 392–3, 396, 398, 445, 448, 453–6,
459, 461
metrical, 137–8, 141, 143, 145–7, 150, 156,
352, 363
phonological systems, 233–4, 461
674 Index
phylogeny, 4, 69, 262, 330, 379, 411–12, 482,
491, 506, 510, 517, 520, 523
physics, 18–20, 25, 44
picture-naming, 177, 358, 364, 367–8, 370
poverty of the stimulus, 14, 16, 27–8, 41, 64–6,
135–6, 471
pragmatics, 39, 49, 52, 66, 320, 377
primary linguistic data, 7, 71–2, 75, 83
principles and parameters theory, 8, 20, 29,
44–5, 131
binary parameters, 133, 136–7, 144, 154
parameter value, 74, 131, 133, 136, 139–46,
149–58, 528
parameters, 3, 8, 14–15, 19, 29–30, 35, 45, 60,
74–6, 81, 83, 85, 98–101, 107–9, 129–59, 265,
528, See also parameter setting
principles, 70–1, 74–5, 83, 106, 131, 354
probability, 65, 67, 87, 129, 142, 149–53, 156–7,
201, 211, 240, 442–3, 475
processing, 3, 53–9, 61–4, 68, 70, 79, 80–1,
85, 93, 121, 126, 142–3, 161–2, 166–9, 172,
177, 182–4, 194–8, 201, 204–6, 209–12,
214–21, 225–7, 229–31, 234, 238–42, 250–5,
258–64, 266–71, 274, 276, 278–81, 283–8,
290–5, 297, 299, 300, 302–6, 309, 311,
318–19, 321–3, 326–7, 334, 336, 345–7, 349,
362, 366, 369–70, 372, 375, 377, 382, 386,
388–9, 392–5, 397–8, 400–1, 403, 407, 409,
410, 412, 440, 444, 500, 506, 516, 519–23,
529, 533–7
conflict processing, 161, 166–7, 172, 174–5
information, 142, 182, 209, 278
syntactic, 55–60, 63, 68, 79–81, 248, 258, 278,
333, 335, 343, 347, 377, 535
prosody, 3, 14, 55, 86–90, 92–3, 260, 352, 441
protolanguage, 469, 471, 491, 499
psycholinguistics, 49, 95, 100, 184, 206, 234–5,
251, 268, 318, 392
psychology, 2, 24, 39, 50, 76, 81, 128, 151, 186,
188–9, 191, 234, 328, 330, 343, 415
reaction time, 57, 169, 184, 214, 236, 251–2, 290,
355, 364, 442
recursion, 19, 30, 43, 53–5, 59, 68, 206, 261, 277,
336, 339, 376, 435, 444, 447, 522, 532
reductionist explanations, 195–9, 202
relative clauses, 53, 185, 193, 215–17, 227–8,
263–4, 269, 271, 277, 529–30, 532–3
reliability
acceptability judgments, 185, 189, 202
data, 186–7, 195
retrieval, 55, 58, 61–2, 204–6, 210–14, 219,
221–32, 267, 287, 297, 333, 335, 350, 353,
355–6, 359–62, 365, 366–8, 421, 530
difficulties, 61–3, 350
lexical, 176, 350–2, 355–9, 364–74
rhythm, 87–8, 505
segmentation, 86–90, 206–8, 236–7, 250, 352,
356, 432, 438–43, 445, 487
selective pressure, 462, 479, 483–5,
487–8, 498
semantics, 3, 9, 19–20, 29–31, 49, 53, 55, 57, 60–3,
66, 80–1, 83, 99, 116, 127, 165, 196, 201, 207,
209, 213, 218, 228, 238, 260–1, 267, 285–92,
297–9, 302, 305–7, 309–25, 334–5, 343–5,
351–2, 354–62, 365–73, 419–20, 422–3,
425–7, 436, 459, 482–3, 535–6
sensitive phase, 77, 85
sexual selection, 423, 448, 450, 452, 456
sign language, 9, 14, 17, 71–2
Specific Language Impairment, 16, 20, 50–3,
60–2, 101, 112–25, 127, 335–6, 366, 384–7,
392–3, 397
speech, 7, 36, 50–1, 60, 83, 86–9, 145, 151, 153,
156, 161, 164–5, 174, 207, 233–41, 246,
248–50, 336, 341–4, 346, 348–50, 352–3,
356, 360, 365, 371–2, 389, 431–5, 437–8,
446–8, 458, 461, 482, 490, 492–8,
525, 531
perception, 241, 348–9, See also Motor Theory
of speech perception
speed accuracy tradeoff, 206, 209–12, 214–16,
220, 223–4, 530
statistical learning, 65–7, 87, 149, 151, 158, 441
statistical modeling, 129, 131, 249
structural properties, 8, 131, 133, 136, 146–9,
196, 460–1, 472
structure-building, 45, 53, 56, 58–9, 67–8, 182,
184, 196, 199, 201, 258–9, 262, 267–8,
276–7, 279–81, 303, 487, 532
subject, 82–4, 99, 114, 116, 118–19, 126–7,
134–5, 138, 154, 198, 208, 215–19, 222, 227,
229, 265–6, 269–74, 304–5, 345–6, 348,
483, 527
null, 98–9, 101, 108, 113, 126, 134, 527
successive cyclicity, 224–5, 513
syllable, 14, 18, 86–9, 92, 115, 137–8, 145–7, 236,
239, 245, 248–9, 261, 345, 352, 354, 356,
363, 368, 372, 433, 440, 446, 459, 496–8, See
also birdsong
syndrome, 16, 20, 335, 344, 384, 390–1,
401–2, 518
syntax, 3, 8–9, 14–15, 18–20, 49–58, 60–8, 77–84,
90–3, 97–9, 118–19, 121–2, 127, 138, 147,
150–1, 181–92, 194–202, 207–9, 215, 220,
222, 225, 227–30, 232–3, 238, 248, 251,
257–71, 276, 278–9, 281, 283–6, 291, 302–3,
305, 307, 309–11, 316–18, 320–3, 333,
335–6, 341, 343–8, 354–6, 358, 364, 366,
369, 371, 373, 377, 386, 394, 398, 423–4,
426–7, 430, 432, 434–5, 438–40, 443–4, 446,
448–9, 451–61, 467–8, 477, 480, 482–3, 486,
499–500, 504–6, 528, 531–7
experimental, 181, 183, 191, 195, 202
tense, 8, 82–3, 98–9, 101, 105–8, 116–17, 122–6,
138–9, 148, 295, 297–300, 311, 334
theoretical linguistics, 2, 7, 9
Theory of Mind, 39, 53, 59, 94, 127, 329,
337, 484
three factors, 8, 9, 109
first factor, 7–8, 109, 411, 467, 473–4
second factor, 8, 109, 411
third factor, 8, 18, 30, 44–5, 411
twins, 15, 20, 110–13, 115, 117, 121, 378
Unique Checking Constraint, 98–102, 109–11,
113–14, 118–20, 122, 125–7
Extended Unique Checking Constraint,
113–14, 116, 121
Universal Grammar, 7–8, 14, 19, 29–30, 43, 70–1,
73–6, 81, 83, 85, 106, 280, 354, 375–6
variability, 18–21, 45, 53, 122, 124–5, 134, 191,
194, 381, 386, 392, 397, 446
Index 675
verb second, 83–4, 97, 101, 103, 105, 125,
138, 527
vision, 7, 9, 38–9, 54, 163, 248, 286, 301, 327,
330, 351, 365, 393, 395, 417, 436, 486
vocabulary, 8, 52, 67–8, 101, 118, 121,
218, 369
vocalization, 17, 386, 419, 428–31, 434, 445,
447–8, 458, 482–3, 494–7, 499
voice onset time, 243–4
vowel space, 242, 247, 249, 493
Wernicke’s area, 56, 344, 364, 373, 436, 508
wh-movement, 56, 151–4
wh-questions, 57, 116, 135–6, 263–4,
269, 271
word recognition, 237, 251, 288, 290, 301
676 Index
