Arguments and Aspect 19
situational aspect) and outer aspect (also called grammatical or viewpoint
aspect). The inner aspect is directly pertinent to the meaning of the verb
whereas the outer aspect provides information relevant to viewing the event
from the outside, i.e. if an action happens to be bounded or lasts a long
time. The most important outer aspects are perfective, about which Comrie
(1976: 3) says that it “presents the totality of the situation”, and imperfec-
tive, which Comrie (1976: 4) argues refers “to the internal temporal con-
stituency of the situation”.
As for inner aspect, verb meanings are connected to one of three aspects.
There is the aspect that expresses manner, process, duration, and unbound-
edness; the aspect that conveys change of state, result, and telicity; and the
aspect involved in states. The distinction between manner and result has been
formulated in e.g. Fillmore (1970) and Tobin (1993). A verb like eat in (27a)
will have a durative inner aspect even in the past tense. In order to change
a durative verb to a change of state, a small clause needs to be added, as in
(27b), or a particle, as in (27c). These add telicity.
(27)	 a.	
Needless to say, they ate a baloney sandwich (COCA CNN Spoken
2010)
b.	Maybe they’ll starve because they ate [themselves out of house and
home]. (COCA PBS Spoken 2012)
c.	 The crowd ate it all up with relish. (COCA Rolling Stone 1993)
The lexical additions, as in (27bc), temporarily change the verb’s aspect
from durative to telic, unlike the outer (perfective) aspect in (27a), which
doesn’t change it. The question that is asked in chapters 6 and 9 is if either
the lexical additions or the outer aspect is helpful in permanently changing
the inner aspect of a verb, and the answer is “somewhat”.
Because two different features are involved (duration and telicity), inner
aspect is also formulated as a four-way distinction, particularly in Vendler
(1967), and this is shown in Table 2.4.
Table 2.4 adds the aspectual class of statives, as Pustejovsky (1988)
argued was necessary, and which I adopt as well. Verkuyl (1993) and others
have discussed problems with this four-way division and exceptions to it.
Comrie (1976: 42–3) has suggested a fifth class of semelfactives, for verbs
like sneeze and tap. This would require a third feature, namely dynamic, to
distinguish it from states.
Table 2.3  Ditransitive verbs (based on Levin 1993 and Pinker 1989)
Only G TH Only TH G Both
cost, spare donate, contribute give, send, loan, show, teach
refuse, fine refer, reimburse lend, pay, serve, feed
forgive administer, restore offer, award, promise
20  Arguments and Aspect
My departure from Table 2.4 is that I see accomplishment verbs as activ-
ity verbs with a measured-out object that renders the predicate telic. Hus-
band (2012: 2–3) has argued that objects are likewise important for the
aspect of states. As we’ll see below, many verb classes, e.g. copulas and per-
ception verbs, distinguish three classes, namely statives, duratives, and telic
verbs, and I will therefore focus on those three. Incidentally, Tenny (1994:
13–14), paying attention to limiting or non-limiting verbs, comes to these
three aspectual classes as well. The class of accomplishments is a coerced
class and it shares its (only) defining characteristic of occurring after finish
with duratives, as (28) shows.
(28)	 a.	They finished building the house.	 accomplishment
b.	They finished eating.	 durative
There are well-known diagnostics for telic, durative, and stative catego-
ries and a few are provided in (29) to (32), and this is how outer aspect
becomes relevant. Take the progressive mentioned in (29). It is an outer
aspect that can be added to verbs that are of a particular inner aspect, i.e.
durative ones, but not typically to those of a non-durative inner aspect.
(29)	 states are typically incompatible with the progressive
(30)	
states are typically incompatible with the imperative (although that
has been debated)
(31)	 durative predicates can be modified by a for-NP adverbial
(32)	 telic predicates can be modified by an in-NP adverbial
An (atelic non-durative) state, such as be tall, cannot occur as a progressive
or an imperative, as (33) shows, and cannot be modified by either a for-NP
or in-NP, as in (34) and (35). Living in a non-realistic universe, these are all
perfectly possible of course because the outer aspect can coerce the inner one.
(33)	 *You aren’t being tall. Be tall!
(34)	 *He was tall for an hour.
(35)	 *He was tall in an hour.
Table 2.4  Inner aspect or Aktionsart
+durative -durative
+telic build a house recognize
(=accomplishment) (=achievement)
-telic swim know, be tall
(=activity) (=state)
Arguments and Aspect 21
The diagnostics in (32) depend on the meaning of the verb, but this mean-
ing becomes evident by using outer aspect: something outside of the verb
reinforces the inner aspect, or changes it, as we’ll discuss next.
There is a lot of evidence that aspect and argument structure are related
and a huge literature exists on it. For instance, if an object or goal is added,
as between (36) and (37), the interpretation changes from durative to telic,
as also seen in connection to (28).
(36)	He ran for hours/*in 5 minutes	 (durative, a-telic)
(37)	He ran to the store in five minutes	 (telic)
If the object is indefinite or if the progressive is used, the telicity is less
strong, as (38) shows, than when the object is definite and the past tense is
used, as in (39).
(38)	 He was eating (of) a pie for hours.	 (durative, atelic)
(39)	He ate the pie in an hour.	 (durative, telic)
This grammatical coercion makes the durative eat into an accomplishment
verb. I am assuming that, at the Conceptual Structure, the boundedness
of the Theme is responsible for the telic nature of the predicate, expressed
grammatically by the definiteness of the article.
In Old English, prefixes, such as ge-, mark a verb as perfective (although
there is some debate as to whether it is also resultative, as we’ll see in chap-
ter 9). When these affixes are lost in early Middle English, this role is taken
up by optional telic particles, such as up. In (40), a verb with weakened ge-,
namely a-, has a particle up reinforcing the perfective meaning.
(40)	 til he aiauen up here castles
‘till they gave up their castles.’ (Peterborough Chronicle 1140, 52)
It is unclear if the particle represents the underlying telic aspect or is a real per-
fective, however. Chapter 9 looks at this more in terms of a Perfective Cycle.
Modern English phrasal verbs display the connection between definite-
ness and aspect because definite and indefinite objects of phrasal verbs often
have a different position in relation to the particle, as in (41). I come back
to this in section 4.
(41)	 a.	She put the phone away.
b.	She put it away.
c.	 She put away a pitcher. (COCA 2009)
22  Arguments and Aspect
Particles indicate result and perfectivity, as (42) shows, where the particle is
added for emphasis of the resulting state or perfective aspect. If the former,
the particle marks inner aspect; if the latter, it marks outer aspect. As we’ll
see in chapter 9, inner aspect can be reanalyzed as outer aspect (in the Per-
fective Cycle).
(42)	 a.	
Up to a half-ton of water per cord will evaporate out (COCA MAG
1994).
b.	But it’s going to take some time for this process to issue this money
out (COCA Fox Spoken 2006)
In short, verbs have an inner aspect that is manner/duration or result/
telicity or state. If they are durative, they have an Agent and may incorpo-
rate a Theme; if they are telic, they have a Theme and may add a Cause; if
they are stative, they have a Theme and possible Experiencer. The aspects
can be modified in the syntax, i.e. coerced, through external means, e.g. by
progressive or perfective aspect. After the vP-shell is discussed in the next
section, I will turn in section 5 to how the inner aspect is expressed syntacti-
cally for each verb class.
4  The vP, Constructionism, and Conceptual Structure
In this section, a basic vP-shell is sketched, a structure that represents the
elements of the argument structure. The original reason behind a double-
headed VP is to accommodate verbs with more than two arguments. Later
on, it is applied more broadly to represent argument structure and aspect, as
in (48) below. The vP-shell doesn’t change in the history of English, suggest-
ing it is a syntactic representation of the underlying Conceptual Structure.
In section 4.1, I present some background on the vP, and in section 4.2,
I present a vP that represents argument structure and aspect and is more
compatible with a projectionist approach.
4.1  The vP and Constructionism
Larson (1988: 384), Sportiche (1988), and Koopman and Sportiche (1991)
contribute in very different ways to the vP-shell. Larson examines the dou-
ble object alternation in English that we saw in (25) and (26) and which is
repeated here as (43) and (44). He accommodates them with a doubled VP
and accounts for the alternation by arguing that (44) is basic and that (43)
is derived by from it by movement.
(43)	 I sent him a book.
(44)	 I sent a book to him.
Larson’s tree, updated as (45), provides space, within a tree adhering to
X-bar, for three arguments. It opens up the way for all three-place predicates
Arguments and Aspect 23
to be placed in an expanded VP and for the verb send to move to the higher
V, now the light, little v. His proposal encounters challenges with case mark-
ing, but these are not relevant here.
The view that theta-roles are assigned inside the vP/VP becomes possible
after Sportiche (1988). In his work on quantifier float and in Koopman
and Sportiche’s (1991) work on the position of subjects, it is argued that
all arguments originate in the VP. The subject originates in the specifier of
the VP (for them, it isn’t vP yet) and moves to the Spec of TP (still IP at the
time). In the 1990s, the VP becomes seen as the semantic layer (with the TP
and CP providing the grammatical and discourse layers) and this makes a
constructionist approach possible: the presence of a specifier of vP accomo-
dates an Agent.
Hale and Keyser (1993, 2002) use a semi-constructionist approach and
assume that “argument structure is determined by . . . the syntactic configu-
rations in which [lexical items] must appear” (2002: 1). Verbs consist of two
elements, a root and a verbal host. The root may (in the case of break) or may
not (in the case of cough) require a specifier, as shown in (46).
24  Arguments and Aspect
The transitive alternation of (46a) comes about through a merge with
another V and a specifier, as in (47a). The V2 break conflates with V1 by
having the phonological matrix introduced into the empty head (Hale and
Keyser 2002: 12). Structure (46b) cannot so merge because there is no DP
to license (Hale and Keyser 2002: 2–3). Later (2002: 15), they attribute the
non-transitive nature of cough to having a structure, as shown in (47b).
The addition of an external argument to (47b) is added in the syntax; it
is “not an argument . . . internal to the lexically projected configuration”
(Hale and Keyser 2002: 6).
Hale and Keyser argue that certain theta-roles are read off from the struc-
ture. For instance,
the “cause” interpretation is simply the normal interpretation of the
[V1 [V2]], . . . that is to say, “cause” is an interpretation assigned to
certain structures and, hence, is unlike the “agent” or “instrumental”
component of verbs like cut, stab, smear, and so on.
(2002: 176–7)
Agent and Instrument are inherent components in the lexical entries of the lat-
ter kind of verb but not of cough or make a fuss. Hale and Keyser, therefore,
occupy an intermediate position in the debate of having argument structure
determined by the lexicon or by the light verbs in the vP-shell.
Borer’s (2005) approach (called exoskeletal) is more radical than Hale and
Keyser’s in that any verb can appear in any syntactic structure and that it
is the “distinct syntax of the functional structure associated with the argu-
ments which determines their interpretation” (2005: 57). For Borer, as well as
for many others that we’ll discuss in the next section, aspectual information
Arguments and Aspect 25
is crucial to the interpretation and helps determine the interpretation at the
semantic interface. Lohndal (2014) provides a different version of the con-
structionist view, one that allows for just one head and an argument. The verb
and complement are transferred to the interfaces and interpreted there. The
verb is thereby severed from its theta-structure in the lexicon.
Thus, there are two main approaches to argument structure. The one
approach assumes the lexical item provides information regarding theta-
roles (or aspect, as I will argue) and that this information projects up from
the conceptual structure. It is therefore known as a projectionist. The other
approach sees the functional structure as determining the interpretation.
The vP-shell approach fits the latter more but, as is obvious from Hale and
Keyser, it is not necessary to be a constructionist to use the vP-shell. The vP-
shell, in its original form, doesn’t accommodate aspect, and that is necessary
for most current conceptions of argument structure, but a more aspectually
sensitive VP-layer does.
4.2  The vP as Expressing Conceptual Structure
Jackendoff (1997, 2002), Pinker (1989/2013), Rappaport Hovav and Levin
(1998), and Levin and Rappaport Hovav (2014) argue for lexical/concep-
tual structures that feed into the syntax. Jackendoff formulates functions,
such as BE, STAY, and GO, and semantic objects, as in (48) for John went
into the room. The functions would correspond to the light verbs in a vP-
shell. Pinker (1989/2013: 288–9) has a fairly similar way of representing the
conceptual structure as Jackendoff.
Rappaport Hovav and Levin (1998: 109) see roots in terms of manner
and result and the arrows in Figure 2.1 translate certain kinds of (verbal)
roots into certain conceptual structures, with the result much resembling
that in (48).
I will use a vP-shell, rather than (49) or the rules in Figure 2.1, as the
syntactic representation of the conceptual structure. I’ll use (49), which
26  Arguments and Aspect
represents the inner aspectual and thematic structures well syntactically.
This vP-shell is adapted from Ramchand (2008), who herself is a proponent
of a constructionist view.
The vP-shell in (49) has three layers representing the event: a causer/ini-
tiator of the action or result (the vP), a process of the action (the ASPP),
and the state or Result or Path (the VP). A verb comes with its initial inner
aspect; e.g. roll is a telic verb. To this VP, a Causer can be added (as I’ll dis-
cuss in the next section) and the ASP can be externally coerced.
Figure 2.1 
Rappaport Hovav and Levin’s associations between roots and con-
ceptual structure
Arguments and Aspect 27
The Agent and Causer are different, which Reinhart (2002) expresses by
having different features (+c, +m for Agent and +c, -m for Causer). The
verbs I discuss in this book will either have an Agent or Causer so I will
be using a v for both. Travis (2001) provides evidence from Tagalog and
Malagasy that the positions are structurally different.
As mentioned in the introduction, Kratzer, in following Marantz (1984),
argues for the special relationship between the Theme and the verb. Thus,
eating involves food and the verb and the Theme cannot be separated. What
appears in the Spec of VP in (49) must correspond to the argument structure
of the verb. I agree that the relationship to the Theme is central but that
other arguments (and their boundedness) are also part of the conceptual
structure. In the concluding section of this chapter, I review a few of the
reasons for making the Theme crucial but then add an argument for seeing
the other arguments as part of the conceptual structure as well.
The Theme is licensed by the lexical verb but all other arguments are
introduced by a light verb. This again is due to the central relationship
between the Theme and the verb in the conceptual structure. In a system
like Pylkkänen’s (2008: 7–8), the non-core arguments, i.e. everything except
the Theme, are introduced by (seven) functional heads, which she takes “to
belong to a universal inventory of functional elements from which a particu-
lar language must select”.
We see that the vP-shell, which can represent the cognitive structure of a
root, is very flexible. It is not only used to accommodate various arguments
but also definiteness and aspect. Having introduced the vP, let’s apply it to
the verb classes that will be discussed in this book.
5  Intransitives and Transitives
In this section, we’ll examine the arguments, aspect, and vP-shell of a vari-
ety of verbs, namely unaccusatives, unergatives, causatives, and transitives.
Verbs not discussed here in terms of a vP-shell are the copulas, psych-verbs,
and ditransitives. I will come back to those later in the book and also to the
stative aspect. For now, I concentrate on verbs of telicity and durativity.
5.1 
Result and Manner Intransitives, Unergatives,
and Unaccusatives
Perlmutter (1978) first and then Burzio (1986) make the very important
distinction between intransitives that have come to be called unergative and
those that have come to be called unaccusative. Both have just one argu-
ment connected with them. Unergative verbs have Agents that are usually
animate whereas unaccusative verbs have Themes that are either animate or
inanimate. Dowty (1991) types unergatives as atelic and unaccusatives as
telic and Tenny (1987: 264) writes that unergatives “tend to describe non-
delimited events, while unaccusatives tend to describe delimited events”.
28  Arguments and Aspect
Likewise, many others see the unergative-unaccusative distinction as
completely aspectual, e.g. Zaenen (1988). Abraham (1990) uses the terms
terminative/biphasic versus monophasic to distinguish two crucial classes,
which I will refer to as telic versus durative. Zaenen argues for a three-way
distinction, as in Figure 2.2, which I have put in terms of aspectual light
verbs. The light verb DO is responsible for the control over the event.
The three-way distinction is necessary to make a finer-grained distinction
in e.g. Dutch. Telicity is reflected in the have/be distinction (atelic uses have
and telic be) but control is relevant for emission verbs, which, as we’ll see,
are in a class of their own.
In what follows, I list the linguistic characteristics that have been sug-
gested as distinguishing the unaccusative and unergative verbs. They focus
on theta-roles and aspect. Unergatives have an Agent doing something
(durative) and are therefore compatible with an adverb like deliberately, as
in (50a), whereas unaccusatives have a Theme as their sole argument that is
affected and are incompatible with such adverbs, as in (50b).
(50)	a.	She deliberately smiled/coughed.
	Agent
b.	*The ice deliberately melted/broke.
	Theme
Sorace (2000: 879) puts the difference in a structural way: “The single argu-
ment of an unaccusative verb is syntactically equivalent to the direct object
of a transitive verb, whereas the single argument of an unergative verb is
syntactically equivalent to the subject of a transitive verb”. I will continue
to think of the difference as aspectual. Typical unergatives involve willed,
volitional, controlled acts, i.e. with an Agent central and a non-telic, dura-
tive aspect; typical unaccusatives involve the change of location/state of the
Theme.
A short list of some differences between these verbs is provided in
Table 2.5. These have been discovered over the course of many years by
many different linguists and some are better than others. As for (a), which
we’ve already seen, adverbs, as in (50), are relevant to determine the theta-
role and aspectual type.
BE (atelic) BECOME (telic)
DO (durave, Agent) telephone arrive
-DO (non-durave) snk die
Figure 2.2  Intransitives as in Zaenen (1988)
Arguments and Aspect 29
As for (b), unergative verbs can easily be transitivized, as in (51), but
unaccusative verbs cannot, as (52) shows.
(51)	 a.	He danced the cha-cha.	 unergative hyponomous object
	 (COCA NBC 2010)
b.	I wanted to dance the part of a fisherman.
	 (COCA fiction 2009)
c.	 I slept and dreamt that life was joy.
	 (COCA News 2014)
(52)	 a.	*The bus arrived me.	 unaccusative hyponomous object
b.	*The bus arrived a perfect stop.
These added objects are called hyponomous objects by Hale and Keyser
(2002: 71; 92) and can even be clausal, as in (51c). The reason for the dif-
ference is that unergatives have no Theme (or have incorporated it) but
unaccusatives do, and so they cannot fill up their VP more.
Related to this is another construction; it is possible to add a small clause of
result to an unergative but not to an unaccusative, as shown in (53) and (54).
(53)	 a.	I sneezed the page off the table.	 unergative with small clause
b.	I walked myself tired.
(54)	 *I arrived the bus on time.	 unaccusative with small clause
The reason is the same: unergatives have not much of a VP and can there-
fore fill it up with a Theme and a Result, but unaccusatives already have a
VP filled with at least a Theme and optionally a Result.
The cognate object, which adds a manner, is different from a ‘real’ object,
as in (51). A cognate object, a term coined by Sweet (1891: 91), adds
Table 2.5  Characteristics of unergative and unaccusative verbs
Unergative (Agent argument) Unaccusative (Theme argument)
a. deliberately is ok
and the argument is human/animate
deliberately is not ok
and argument can be +/-animate
b. a Theme can be added no Theme can be added
c. V+er *V+er
d. imperative ok imperative not ok
e. prenominal past participle not ok prenominal past participle ok
f. be + perfect participle have + perfect participle
g. Impersonal passive *Impersonal passive (Dutch)
h. sentence focus SV (Italian, Hebrew) sentence focus VS (Italian, Hebrew)
30  Arguments and Aspect
aspectual or modal information through its adjective and it occurs with
both unergative and unaccusative verbs, as in (55) and (56), respectively.
(55)	 I mean, I never sleep a good night’s sleep. (COCA NBC 2009)
(56)	 Three weeks after his wife, Rosie, had died a puzzling death . . . (COCA
NBC 2010)
Hale and Keyser (2002: 71–7) analyze unergatives as roots that can be nom-
inal or verbal. If verbal, they can have real Themes, as in (51); if nominal, they
incorporate as verbs, as in (55), with the original noun not deleted, as in (57).
The Theme of an unaccusative is a ‘real’ object and a hyponomous object
can never be added, but a cognate object can be. The structure of these
is more abstract with a structure as in (58). We can argue that she is the
Theme of the verb die whose root has remained in the derivation because it
is modified.
Arguments and Aspect 31
In the context of the noun death, it is intriguing that Indo-European has
a -d/-t/-th suffix deriving nouns from verbs and adjectives. Skeat (1892:
240–6) writes that this ending can be the mark of the past participle or to
derive nouns, e.g. street from stra-ta ‘paved’, gif-t (from give), bir-th (from
bear), bro-th (from brew), grow-th, steal-th, weal-th, drough-t, wef-t (from
weave), gol-d, fligh-t, migh-t, sigh-t, dee-d (from do), and floo-d (from flow).
So, it may show that unaccusatives like die may also derive from roots that
serve as nouns and verbs in (58).
Characteristics (c) to (h) in Table 2.5 are more language-specific. I will
just mention them here without critical comment (see e.g. Rosen 1984 for
critique). Characteristic (c) depends on the -er suffix in English being used to
nominalize unergative verbs with agents such as swimmer, sneezer, and even
cougher, but never arriver and comer. Characteristic (d) works for English
as well in that work harder is fine but arrive sooner is not. As for (e), the
prenominal participle is grammatical with unaccusatives, as in (59a), but
not with unergatives, as in (59b). See Levin and Rappaport (1986: 653–4)
for more on this diagnostic.
(59)	 a.	
One of its hemispheres reflects light like newly fallen snow. (COCA
2015).
b.	*laughed children.
As for (f), in many Germanic and Romance languages, the choice of the
perfect auxiliary depends on the type of verb. Thus, in older English, Dutch,
German, Italian, and to a much lesser extent French, the auxiliary have is
used when an Agent is involved with transitives and unergatives and be
when a Theme is involved with unaccusatives. An example of such auxiliary
selection from Dutch is given in (60).
(60)	a.	Hij heeft gezwommen	Dutch
	 ‘He has swum.’
b.	Hij is gekomen
	 he is arrived, ‘He has arrived.’
English and Spanish used to select have/haber and be/estar this way too
but have lost it (and French seems to be losing the distinction). Using a VP-
shell, where functional categories are connected to certain theta-roles, would
account for the connection of the light verb hebben in (60a) to an Agent. Here
too, there are some exceptions, as Koster (1986: 255) shows for Dutch.
Impersonal passives, mentioned as (g), can be seen in (61).
(61)	a.	Er	 werd	(door die kinderen)	 gezwommen	Dutch
	 there	 became (by those kids)	 swum
	 ‘Swimming was going on; Those children were swimming’
32  Arguments and Aspect
b.	*Er	 werd	 aangekomen
	 there became arrived
	 ‘Arriving was going on.’
The construction is typically possible with unergatives that have control over
the event (as shown by the Agent in brackets in (61a)) but not unaccusatives
(and verbs like ‘stink’, as mentioned above in connection to Table 2.3). The
reason for this difference is that the Agent in (61a) can be lost (demoted) in
a passive, but not the Theme in (61b). Finally, as for (h), many languages
prefer VS structures with unaccusatives but not with unergatives. See Rog-
gia (2015) for this feature across Spanish dialects.
Table 2.6 provides a list of unergative and unaccusative verbs, with the
latter subdivided into those that can alternate between intransitives and
causatives, a point I come back to.
In distinguishing unaccusatives from unergatives, there is a continuum
or hierarchy of verbs that are more typically unaccusative or more typically
unergative. Sorace (2000: 863) was the first to suggest a continuum as in
Table 2.7, where languages may make slightly different selections for where
the boundary is. Dutch auxiliary selection divides the seven categories into
the three top ones and the four lower ones: the former have ‘be’ and the lat-
ter ‘have’. Roggia (2011, 2015) shows that other languages make a similar
halfway division. This table builds on Figure 2.2 in that the relevant cat-
egories are +/- telic and +/- durative, with an added motion component. In
chapter 1, I have suggested this table represents the three main aspects: telic
on top, stative in the middle, and durative at the bottom.
As Table 2.6 shows, unaccusatives can be further divided into change of
state verbs on the one hand and change of location, existence, and appear-
ance verbs on the other. Tortora (1996) provides evidence for this division
from Borgomanerese, an Italian dialect. In English, change-of-state verbs
typically cannot have expletives, as in (62a), but alternate as causatives, as
in (63a), whereas the other unaccusatives have expletives, as in (62b), but
do not alternate, as in (63b).
(62)	 a.	*There broke a bottle.
b.	There arrived a bus.
(63)	 a.	The storm broke the bottle.
b.	*The bus driver arrived the bus.
The basic structure for unergatives is given in (64a). Of crucial impor-
tance is the durative aspect connected with this root. Unergatives are fre-
quently denominal so, as mentioned, Hale and Keyser (2002: 63) argue that
there is a VP with the N incorporated into the V and moving to v to merge
Arguments and Aspect 33
with an Agent DP. I adopt that in (64a). This incorporation of the N as V is
optional and the root ‘dance’ can also choose to be a verb, in which case a
‘real’ Theme can be added, which is then a hyponomous object, and this is
shown in (64b).
The structure for unaccusatives is given in (65) where the telic aspect is
crucial and the resultative PP optional.
Table 2.6  Examples of unergative and unaccusative verbs in English
Unergative Unaccusative
bicycle, burp, cough, crawl, cry, dance,
daydream, frown, grin, hop, jog,
kneel, laugh, limp, resign, run, scream,
shout, smile, swim, speak, sneeze,
sleep, talk, walk, work, yell
Alternating: begin, burn, decrease, drop,
freeze, grow, increase, melt, reduce, stop,
spread, widen
Non-alternating: appear, (a)rise, arrive,
burst, come, depart, emerge, ensue, exist,
fall, follow, occur, remain, sit
Table 2.7  Gradience between unaccusatives and unergatives
Change of Location come, arrive, fall Unaccusative
Change of State begin, rise, blossom, die
Continuation of a pre-existing
state
remain, last, survive
Existence of State exist, please, belong
Uncontrolled Process cough, laugh, shine
Controlled Process (motional) run, swim, walk, ring, rumble
Controlled Process (non-motional) work, play, talk Unergative
(4) Sorace’s label Example verbs Aspect
Change of Locaon come, arrive, fall telic
Change of State begin, rise, blossom, die telic
Connuaon of a Pre-Exisng State remain, last, survive stave
Existence of State exist, please, belong stave
Uncontrolled Process cough, laugh, shine durave
Controlled Process (moonal) run, swim, walk durave
Controlled Process (non-moonal) work, play, talk durave
34  Arguments and Aspect
Passive participles and their Themes can be analyzed as unaccusative
VPs too, with the auxiliary possibly in little v marking the absence of an
Agent. There is a debate, however, on this. Chomsky (2008) argues that
passives and unaccusatives in general are vPs but that this particular vP
does not count as a phase. This book does not look at passives in great
detail but I assume the passive auxiliaries are light verbs with their own
inner aspect.
Adding agentive and durative adverbs to an unaccusative can coerce it
into an unergative, as in (66).
(66)	 Then she began arriving with cartons of soap and other supplies.
(COCA News 2005)
Adding a Goal and Path can coerce an unergative into an unaccusative
(Dutch can change hebben into zijn in such circumstances). The distinc-
tion between the two verb classes depends on the inner aspect of the
verb, but grammatical aspect and lexical expressions of result coerce the
meaning.
5.2  Transitives and Causatives
In this section, I’ll discuss verbs with more than one argument. One of the
differences between durative transitives and telic causatives is that they
express manner and result, respectively, and that these characteristics are
related to the centrality of the Theme. With manner verbs, the Theme can
be left out, but not with result verbs, as Rappaport Hovav and Levin (2010)
have argued (see Ruda 2016 for a more complete picture).
The verb eat is durative and has an optional Theme, as shown in (67a).
To derive the sentence, the Theme merges with the durative V. After merging
with v, and having eat internally merge to it, the Agent is added and the vP
is complete, as in (67b).
Arguments and Aspect 35
Transitive verbs have durative aspect but they can be coerced into accom-
plishments by adding a result. This comes about when the durative verb is
combined with an object that checks its features in ASP to render it telic. If
the Theme is definite, the event is definitely telic, which is represented by the
telicity in ASP, which is optionally lexicalized by the telicity marker up in (68).
36  Arguments and Aspect
Unaccusatives, such as break in English, can have a Causer added due to
their inner telic aspect and the result is a causative verb. Building on (65)
and adding a Causer, the tree is as in (69a), for (69b).
b.	They broke it into two pieces.
Because unaccusatives are VPs, they can be causativized; this cannot happen
to unergatives in most languages because they are vPs, and They laughed the
child is therefore ungrammatical.
Many alternating unaccusatives are deadjectival, e.g. redden, thicken,
widen, open, and brown, as Table 2.8 shows.
The reason for this is that the adjective represents the Result and incor-
porates from the AP to the V. A tree for this is given in (70), adapted from
Hale and Keyser (2002: 31).
Table 2.8 
Adjective-verb alternations (from Levin and Rappaport Hovav 1995:
95–6)
The inchoative suffix -en
awaken, blacken, brighten, broaden, cheapen, coarsen, dampen, darken, deafen,
deepen, fasten, fatten, flatten, freshen, frighten, gladden, harden, hasten, hearten,
heighten, lengthen, lessen, lighten, loosen, madden, moisten, neaten, quicken,
quieten, redden, ripen, roughen, sadden, sharpen, shorten, sicken, slacken,
smarten, soften, stiffen, straighten, strengthen, sweeten, tauten, tighten, toughen,
waken, weaken, whiten, widen, worsen
The zero-affix
brown, clean, clear, cool, crisp, dim, dirty, dry, dull, empty, even, firm, level, loose,
mellow, muddy, narrow, open, pale, quiet, round, shut, slack, slim, slow, smooth,
sober, sour, steady, tame, tan, tense, thin, warm, yellow
Arguments and Aspect 37
In the literature, (71a) is referred to as anticausative or inchoative (change
of state) and (71b) as causative.
(71)	 a.	The ball	 rolled down the hill.
	Theme
b.	I	 rolled	 the ball down the hill.
	Agent	 Theme
Thus, unaccusatives have the possibility to be causative, as in (71b); see
Table 2.6. In English, they are labile. However, as mentioned, there are
those who don’t typically have that possibility, e.g. arrive, exist, appear, and
bloom. For verbs such as arrive and fall, Ramchand (2008: 79) argues that
these verbs have an initiator that initiates its own transition. I think that a
variety of reasons are involved. In the case of fall, we happen to have an
alternative, namely drop, that blocks the use of causative fall. At one stage
of the language, as we’ll see in chapter 4, we did have such a causative,
which remains in narrowed use as fell. In other cases, it may be what Levin
and Rappaport Hovav (1995) call the internally caused set of verbs. Thus,
arrive, blossom, and bloom are internally caused and cannot have an exter-
nal Causer, as shown in (72).
(72)	 a.	The saguaro bloomed.
b.	*The sun bloomed the saguaro.
These verbs are restricted to a Theme argument and are not compatible with
a Causer augmentation. As mentioned earlier, this inability to function as
causative makes it possible to have an expletive there.
38  Arguments and Aspect
Some of the meanings may have changed due to technological changes,
e.g. freezers and boilers. Cross-linguistically, there is a split in internally
and externally caused unaccusatives as well. Haspelmath (1993) looks at 31
alternating verbs, given in Table 2.9, and sees a split between spontaneous
action and externally caused action. The ranking is based on percentages
of causativizing strategies in the different languages. Boil, for instance, is
causativized in 96% of the languages whereas split is only causativized in
4% (these figures are from Cysouw 2008: 382).
That the French-loan boil prefers overt causativization is shown in the
history of English. The first use of boil in English is as an intransitive; its first
transitive use has a causative light verb do, as in (73).
(73)	 þei filled a leed of picche & oile/And fast duden hit to boile
they filled a kettle of pitch and oil and fast made it to boil
‘they filled a kettle of pitch and oil and made it boil fast.’
(1300 Cursor Mundi 11886 (Trinity), from the OED)
Haspelmath formulates the universal in (74) that describes the difference
between the verbs.
(74)	 Verbs of the ‘freeze’-type tend to be transitivizing whereas verbs of the
‘break’-type tend to be detransitivizing.
Similarly, certain verbs tend not to be intransitive, as (75) shows.
(75)	 a.	The knife cut the cloth.
b.	*The cloth cut.
Haspelmath’s (1993: 94) explanation for the data in (75) is as follows.
A verb meaning that refers to a change of state . . . may appear in an
inchoative/causative alternation unless the verb contains agent-­
oriented
meaning components or other highly specific meaning components that
make the spontaneous occurrence of the event extremely unlikely.
Table 2.9  Alternating verbs in Haspelmath (1993: 97; 104)
Spontaneous, or freeze-type:
boil, freeze, dry, wake up, go/put out, sink, learn/teach, melt, stop, turn, dissolve,
burn, destroy, fill, finish
Outside force, or break-type:
begin, spread, roll, develop, get lost/lose, rise/raise, improve, rock, connect, change,
gather, open, break, close, split, die/kill
Arguments and Aspect 39
So, cut has as part of its meaning the use of scissors/knife and is there-
fore agentive. Thus, semantic properties of verbs are crucially impor-
tant to determining an event. Again, the question is whether these are
listed in the lexicon due to cognitive principles at work at the semantic
interface.
I’ll now turn to something that was mentioned in section 1, namely
how argument structure is morphologically marked. Causatives can
be divided into lexical (e.g. kill), synthetic (e.g. soft-en), and analytic
(make soft) causatives. Labile verbs (e.g. break) can be intransitive or
causative, without morphological marking. These types are given in
(76) to (78).
(76)	 He died	 -	 The disease killed him.	 (=lexical)
(77)	 a.	It broke	 -	 The wind broke it.	 (=labile: zero)
b.	It softened	 -	
The washer softened it.	 (=labile: synthetic)
(78)	 He laughed	 -	 I made him laugh.	 (=analytic)
Lexical causatives bring about direct causation. This can be seen by compar-
ing (79) with an analytic causative in (80) that marks indirect causation.
(79)	 The disease killed him
(80)	 The disease caused him to die
The reason for the difference is that in (79) there is one TP and one event
whereas in (80) there are two events, indicated by the marker to.
The causative with make in (78) has no to to indicate that there are two
events, but there still are in English. We will assume make introduces a new
event and a Causer and it is recursive, as (81) shows.
(81)	 . . . the dressing was great, with just enough bite from the vinegar and
salt from the cheese crumbles to make us make it disappear quickly.
(Google)
An Agent and Causer cannot both be expressed, as shown in (82), unless an
additional light verb is added, as in (83).
(82)	 *I laugh you.
(83)	
a.	
I	made	him	 roll	the ball.
	 b.	
I	made	my neighbor	laugh.
Causer	Agent
40  Arguments and Aspect
There are light verbs that introduce arguments, e.g. the Dutch causitivizer
ver- (see e.g. Hoekstra 2004: 312), that transform the unaccusative (84) into
the causative/resultative (85), among many other functions, with a tree as
in (86).
(84)	 Het papier brandt	  Dutch
	 the paper burns
	 ‘The paper is burning.’
(85)	 Hij verbrandt het papier
	 He burns the paper
	 ‘He is burning the paper.’
Other similar verbs are schroeien ‘burn’ and verschroeien ‘make burn’; sli-
jten ‘wear out’ and verslijten ‘cause to wear out’; and zinken ‘sink’ and
verzinken ‘make sink’; and most adjectives such as verwijden ‘widen’, ver-
diepen ‘deepen’, verbreden ‘broaden’, and vervroegen ‘make earlier’. Den
Dikken (1995) models the causative on the tree for the applicative but that
doesn’t account for the productivity of the causative and the infrequency of
applicatives, which seem lexicalized.
In conclusion, in this section we’ve considered the aspect and theta-roles
connected to four classes of verbs (unaccusative, unergative, causative, and
transitive) and how this fares with the vP-shell.
6  Conclusion and More on a Debate
In this concluding section, I will first summarize what has been discussed so
far, and then suggest how data from suppletion, acquisition, and language
change can help shed light on a particular representation of argument struc-
ture, one which considers the aspect as crucial to the conceptual structure.
Arguments and Aspect 41
I also provide evidence that the other core arguments are part of the con-
ceptual structure.
This chapter started out by discussing valency and how that could be seen
as a verb selecting a range of theta-roles. The theta-roles in (Modern) English
appear in a hierarchy and map onto a vP-shell, with the Agent and Causer in
the higher part of the shell, the process in the middle, and the Theme and the
Result in the lowest part. The chapter discussed how the inner aspect of a verb
(durative, telic, and stative) can be seen as crucially determining the argument
structure: telic verbs have a Theme that is affected (and a result); durative
verbs have an Agent that does an activity (with an incorporated Theme) and
states a Theme. Stative verbs will be discussed in chapters 5 to 7. Unaccusa-
tives can be enhanced by adding a Causer and unergatives by adding a certain
kind of Theme, resulting in causative and transitive verbs, respectively. Sta-
tives can add an Experiencer. In addition to the basic aspect, grammatical
aspect and definiteness can also be added and are represented in the vP-shell
through an ASPP. This is, of course, the outer aspect of a sentence.
I have sketched different proposals about where aspect and argument
structure reside: in the lexical/conceptual structure as aspectual information,
the projectionist approach, or added by functional categories in the syn-
tax, the constructionist approach. Arguments can be found for both sides.
For the proposal introducing all arguments with light verbs in the syntax,
see e.g. Borer (2005) and Lohndal (2014). In the remainder of this section,
I will provide a few reasons against this position. First there will be some
arguments for not severing the Theme from the verb and for seeing the inner
aspect as crucial: (a) in many languages, the shape or number of the object
is lexicalized in the verb, (b) idioms involve Themes and possibly Agents,
(c) acquisition of verbs and early development show aspectual choice is not
arbitrary, and (d) language change keeps aspect stable.
As for (a), it is well-known from the literature on Athabaskan languages,
especially regarding Navajo (Landar 1964), that verbs can encode the type
of Theme (and manner of motion) lexically. In Navajo, these verbs are
called classificatory or handling verbs. Examples are given in (87), from
Young and Morgan (1987: 873). The choice of deeł determines that the
handled object is slender and flexible (SFO) and of kaad that the object is
an open container (OC) or in one. Thus, the verb and the Theme are one,
not decomposable.
(87)	a.	bílák’ee	 haa-deeł
	 hand.from	out-SFO.fall
	 ‘A slender flexible object falls from one’s hand, e.g. a rope/gloves.’
	b.	
gohweeh	 bílák’ee	 haa-kaad
	 coffee	 hand.from	out-OC.fall
	 ‘S/he dropped the (cup of) coffee.’
42  Arguments and Aspect
Connected to the close connection between a verb and its Theme is a
different areal phenomenon of the southwestern United States, namely the
occurrence of verb stems that are suppletive in number of the Theme in a
variety of (genetically unrelated) languages, Navajo, Hopi, Zuni, and Hiaki.
This has been regarded by Harley (2014) as indicative of a special rela-
tionship between the Theme and the verbal root in Hiaki. However, this
phenomenon is tricky to relate to the special status of the Theme since all
kinds of intransitive verbs participate. These verbs would all have to be
unaccusative for the suppletion to constitute evidence of the special rela-
tionship between verb and Theme. The below examples from Hopi in (88a)
and (89ab), from Jeanne (1978), show that the verbs wari and niina have a
singular argument and the morphologically unrelated, i.e. suppletive, yu’tu
and qöya in (88b) and (89cd) have a plural argument. The plural grammati-
cal subject is marked through the suffix -ya in (89bd).
(88)	a.	ni’	 wari
	1S	 ran.SObj
	 ‘I ran.’
	b.	
‘itam	 yu’tu
	1P	 ran.PObj
	 ‘We ran.’
(89)	a.	ni’	 taavot		 niina
	1S	 rabbit-OBL	 kill.SObj
	 ‘I killed a rabbit.’
b.	 ‘itam	 taavot	 niina-ya
	we	 rabbit.OBL	 kill.SObj-PSu
	 ‘We killed a rabbit.’
c.	 ni’	 taatapti-y	 qöya
	 I	 rabbit-P.OBL	kill.PObj
	 ‘I killed rabbits.’
d.	 ‘itam	 taatapti-y	 qöq-ya
	 we	 rabbit-P.OBL	kill.PObj-PSu
	 ‘We killed rabbits.’ (Jeanne 1978: 93–4)
The same suppletion for number occurs in O’odham (Zepeda 1994), Ute
(Givón 2011: 55), Kiowa (Watkins 1984), Hiaki (Harley 2014), and Zuni
Arguments and Aspect 43
(Newman 1965: 32). Durie (1986) finds this phenomenon in 40 languages
worldwide. English can be said to have it in murder/massacre and run/stam-
pede. Mithun (1988: 214) argues that the cases in Hopi and other similar
languages should not be treated as suppletive verbs as there is a semantic
difference in the verb meaning. Storch and Dimmendaal (2014: 13) note
that Nilo-Saharan languages have similar systems.
Various observers have argued that suppletion on these verbs is agree-
ment since it is not connected to semantic roles, as pointed out above (Boas
1911; Sapir 1922; Durie 1986; Mithun 1988: 214; Hale, Jeanne and Pranka
1991; van Gelderen 1997; Veselinova p.c.). Stem suppletion for number also
occurs in Navajo with adverbial arguments, as (90) shows, where in (90a)
the stem is dual because there are two people involved in the event, and in
(90b) the stem is plural because more than two people are involved. This
suppletion does not depend on the Theme only, though, so we can’t argue
these provide evidence for a special relationship between verb and Theme
or any other core argument.
(90)	a	Kinłání-góó	 ni-ł	 dee-sh-’áázh
	 Flagstaff-to	 2SG-with	FUT-1SG-go.DUAL
	 ‘I will go to Flagstaff with you’.
b.	Kinłání-góó	 nihi-ł	 dii-kai
	 Flagstaff-to	 1DPL-with	FUT.2SG-go.PL
	 ‘You (sg) will go to Flagstaff with us’.
	 (Aryeh Faltz p.c., from van Gelderen 1997: 183–4)
As for (b), idioms have also been shown to involve the Theme. For instance,
Marantz (1984) and Harley and Stone (2013) argue that only Themes par-
ticipate in idiomatic expressions, such as (91).
(91)	 a.	kill a bug.
b.	kill a conversation.
c.	 kill an evening.
d.	kill a bottle.
Harley and Stone formulate a ‘No Agent Idiom Hypothesis’ to account for
it. There have been opposing arguments to this. Thus, Bowers (2010) and
others argue that idiomatic expressions with Agents and Causers indeed
exist. Some examples are given in (92), where the subject in (92d) is prob-
ably a Theme but the subjects in (92a-c) are clear Agents.
44  Arguments and Aspect
(92)	 a.	The lovebug bit him.
b.	A little bird told me that.
c.	 Birds of a feather flock together.
d.	A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
So, in short, the suppletion caused by the shape of the object in (87) pro-
vides a solid argument for the special relationship between the verb and the
Theme. The suppletion for number in (88) to (89) provides evidence that
all arguments count, in particular the special relationship of both the Agent
and the Theme to the verb. However, the comitatives in (90) and idioms in
(92a-c) would be problematic. The issue is still hotly debated.
Turning to language acquisition, point (c) above, there are several indica-
tions for the special status of the inner aspect of the root and the Theme.
As for inner aspect, Bloom, Lifter and Hafitz (1980) and Broman Olsen
and Weinberg (1999) claim that children are aware of durative and telic
because they use different morphological markers: -ed morphemes go with
non-durative verbs and -ing affixes go with durative verbs. Jordens (2012)
shows that inflected and uninflected verbs in Dutch and German are used to
mark different aspectual classes.
As for thematic roles, it has been known since Bowerman (1982), Naigles
(1990), and others that children automatically causativize but do not tran-
sitivize. This may suggest that the Theme is the first argument that ‘comes’
with the verb. Ryan (2012), in a qualitative study, finds a Spanish child
first acquiring unaccusative verbs. This is expected if the unaccusative is the
simplest, just involving a Theme, which is found with all verbs. However,
the data from first language acquisition of English that I present in the next
chapters indicates that the earliest English verbs, prepositions, and adjec-
tives show many kinds of verbs and aspects but that some (certain psych-
verbs) are acquired very late.
The work on language change, point (d), in the chapters to follow shows
the centrality of the Theme and the aspect of the verb. The changes involve
additions that are in accordance with the inner aspect of the verb, such as
unaccusatives reanalyzing as causatives (keeping telicity) and unergatives
reanalyzing as transitives (keeping durativity). We’ll now shift to the histori-
cal data.
1 Introduction
As mentioned in chapter 1, English is said to have lost many purely intran-
sitive verbs. My examination of 81 Old English verbs identified in Visser
(1963) as intransitives demonstrates that many indeed die out and that many
are renewed. I examine the argument structure of those that change and
show that there is a difference between the aspectual classes, i.e. between
unergative and unaccusative verbs, in terms of the changes they undergo.
I start by looking at the unergative and unaccusative verbs in Old English
and test the criteria we’ve considered in chapter 2 to distinguish verbs with
durative aspect from those with telic aspect. As far as I know, this hasn’t
been done before. Then, I consider the changes in intransitives. Of the verbs
that change, unaccusatives gain Causers and unergatives gain Themes. Their
basic aspect remains unchanged. Both changes reduce the number of exclu-
sively intransitive verbs and fill up the vP-shell so to speak.
I then look at intransitive motion verbs. If intransitives are indeed lost,
are they renewed through loans? There is evidence (Slobin 2004; Fanego
2012) that there is an increase in manner of motion verbs. Fanego finds
that 181 new manner of motion verbs are added in Middle English, 205 in
early Modern English, and 250 in Late Modern. This development belies the
dying out of the intransitive, although not all are exclusively intransitive.
After the historical data, I switch to acquisition to see how children’s
intransitive verbs develop. It is evident from both a one-word and two-word
stage that the child learning English uses all the different verbs and knows
the argument structure as evidenced by differentiating aspect. With Agents,
the manner is emphasized, and with Theme the result.
The outline is as follows. In section 2, I introduce the intransitives in Old
English. As in other languages, two classes of intransitive verbs, unerga-
tives and unaccusatives, can be distinguished and, as in Modern English,
agentivity, animacy, and grammatical aspect can change/coerce these verbs.
In section 3, I show which changes intransitives undergo. The higher part
of the vP comes to be used in the case of unaccusatives and the lower part
in the case of unergatives. This shows a full utilization of the vP as English
becomes more analytic. The basic aspect remains unchanged. In section 4,
3	Intransitives
46  Intransitives
I briefly talk about analytical tendencies that may be the cause of these
changes. In section 5, I consider motion verbs as renewals of intransitives,
and section 6 examines acquisition data. Section 7 is a conclusion.
2  Old English Unergatives and Unaccusatives
In chapter 2, I provided some of the ways to divide intransitives into dura-
tive unergative verbs (those with an Agent) and telic unaccusatives (those
with a Theme). In this section, I first provide some examples and then apply
the tests in the same order as I listed them in Table 2.5, repeated here.
Applying the tests for older stages of the language is harder than for Mod-
ern English because of the lack of native speaker judgments. As mentioned in
chapter 1, I use a mixture of information from Old English handbooks and
corpus searches to decide on the argument structure of a verb.
Examples of the Old English unergative verbs swimman ‘swim’ and hlih-
han ‘laugh’ are given in (1) and (2) and of the unaccusative verbs feallan
‘fall’ and blinnan ‘cease’ in (3) and (4).
(1)	 Ða fugelas . . .  syndon flaxfote	 be Godes	 foresceawunge,
The birds . . . 	 are	 webfooted	 through God’s	 foresight
þæt	hi	 swimman	 magon	and	secan	him	 fodan.
that	they	swim	 can	 and	seek	 REFL	food
(DOE, Hexameron: Crawford 1921, 250)
(2)	 Heo on wrace syððan seomodon swearte siðe, ne þorfton hlude hlihhan
They in exile since continued, evil spirits, not needed loudly laugh
‘From then on, those spirits dwelt in exile; they had no need to laugh
loudly.’
(DOE, Genesis 71)
(3)	 Næfre on ore læg widcuþes wig, ðonne walu feollon.
never on front lay.down famous fight, then slaughtered.ones fell
‘He was always in front when others fell around him.’ (DOE, Beowulf
1041–2)
(4)	 sio roeðnis ðæs stormes wæs blinnende
the fierceness that storm was ceasing
‘The fierceness of the storm was diminishing.’ (DOE, Bede, Miller 386.11)
There is control and duration by the Agents who swim and laugh but not by
the Themes that are involved in falling and ceasing. Note that the -ende on
blinnan in (4) is coercing a mildly telic verb into a durative one.
Intransitives 47
Table 3.1 provides a list of Old English unaccusative and unergative verbs,
organized in terms of the hierarchy of Table 2.7. The main dividing line
between the two classes of verbs will turn out to be above drohtian and libban.
I will be checking if the characteristics listed in Table 2.5 hold for Old
English as well. Starting with test (a) in Table 2.5, the adverb deliberately is
agent-oriented and is therefore expected with unergatives. The actual word
does not occur in Old English (having been borrowed later) but can be
rendered in Old English using (self)willes ‘voluntarily’. It occurs with the
unergatives gan ‘go’, as in (5), and drohtian ‘live’, as in (6).
(5)	 se	 gæþ	 sylfwilles	 twa	 mila
3S.NOM	goes	voluntarily	two	miles
‘who goes two miles voluntarily.’ (DOE, Benedictine Rule: Schröer
1885–8, 28.3)
(6)	 þæt	 ic	 mihte	 mid	 þe	 sylfwilles	 drohtian
that	I	 might	with	you	voluntarily	live.
	 ‘that I might live with you voluntarily.’ (DOE, Saint Euphrosyne: Skeat 305)
Table 3.1  Unaccusative and unergative verbs in Old English
Change of Locaon feallan `fall’, becuman `arrive’
Unaccusave
Change of State fordrugan `dry up’, eacan/eacian `increase’,
forþfaran `die’, essian `waste away’
Connuaon of a pre-exisng state (a)blinnan `cease’, oferlibban `survive’,
lifian/libban `connue’
Existence of State droh
an `live’, lifian/libban `live’
Uncontrolled Process hlihhan `laugh’, brogdian `tremble’, scinan `shine’
Controlled Process (moonal) yrnan `run’, ridan `ride’, gan/faran `go’,
swimman ’swim’
Controlled Process (non-motional) plegian `play’, tumbian `dance’
Unergative
Table 2.5  Characteristics of unergative and unaccusative verbs
Unergative (Agent argument) Unaccusative (Theme argument)
a. deliberately is ok
and the argument is human/animate
deliberately is not ok
and argument can be +/-animate
b. a Theme can be added no Theme can be added
c. V+er *V+er
d. imperative ok imperative not ok
e. prenominal past participle not ok prenominal past participle ok
f. be + perfect participle have + perfect participle
g. Impersonal passive *Impersonal passive (Dutch)
h. sentence focus SV (Italian, Hebrew) sentence focus VS (Italian, Hebrew)
48  Intransitives
This adverb (self)willes appears mainly with motion verbs, such as faran
and coman, and transitives when they are agentive; I haven’t found it with
unaccusatives expressing change of location or state, although Old English
coman is ambiguous between involving duration or telicity. Likewise, lib-
ban/lifian ‘continue’ or ‘live’ is ambiguous between the categories of con-
tinuation and existence in Table 3.1.
The adverb wilsumlice ‘voluntarily’ only occurs with transitives. It is of
course hard to judge how agentive and in control the Old English intransi-
tive events are. Old English drohtian in (6) is unergative because of sen-
tences like (7), where the coordination is with the durative verb don, and (8)
and (9), where there is an obligation to live in a certain way.
 (7)	 hu	 he	 in	 Godes	 huse	 drohtian	 &	 don	 scolde
	 how	he	in	God’s	 house	live	 and	do	 should
	 ‘how he should live and act in God’s house.’ (DOE, Bede, Miller 64. 12–13)
 (8)	 Ærest  bi biscopum,  hu  hy mid heora geferum drohtian & lifgan sculon?
first	 for bishops,	 how they with their companions live and live should
	 ‘As for the bishops, how shall they conduct themselves and live with their
clergy?’ (DOE, Bede, Miller 64. 6–7)
 (9)	 hu	 he	 ðæron	 drohtian	scyle.
how	he	thereon	conduct	 should
‘How he should live in it.’ (DOE, Pastoral Care, Hatton, Sweet, 11. 20)
Hyponomous objects are expected with unergatives if their analysis is as
assumed in chapter 2, namely where the nominal Theme (optionally) can serve as
a verb. As mentioned in chapter 2, there is difference between a cognate object and
a hyponomous one because the former adds additional information and occurs
with all intransitives whereas the latter is a real Theme and only occurs with uner-
gatives. Visser (1963: 413–14) mentions some Old English cognate objects, as in
(10) and (11), with the unergative verbs plegian ‘play’1
and singan ‘sing’.
(10)	 ða	 cild	 ridað	 on hiora stafum	 &	 manigfealde	 plegan
those	 children	 ride	 on their sticks	 and	 many	 plays
plegiað	 ðær	 hi	 hyriað	 ealdum	 monnum.
play	 there	they	imitate	old	 men
‘Children ride on their sticks and play their games, which they imitate
from old men.’ (Boethius 108.10–11)
(11)	 Hu	 magon	 we	 singan	 sangas
how	may	 we	sing	 songs
‘How are we able to sing songs.’ (Paris Psalter 136.4)
Intransitives 49
Heahgaldor sum ‘some charm’ in (12), however, is a real object, not a cog-
nate one. This is expected from unergatives like singan.
(12)	 þæt  heo  nele gehyran	 heahgaldor  sum þæt snotre men singað
that	 she	 not.want hear	 charm	 some that wise men sing
‘That she doesn’t want to hear a charm that wise men sing.’
(DOE, Paris Psalter 57.4)
The unergative verb hlihhan ‘laugh’ has genitive objects, as in (13), and with the
prefix be-, as in (14), it can actually transitivize, as Los et al. (2012: 199) note.
A transitive sentence occurs only once (in the DOE and is not mentioned in
Bosworth and Toller), and that’s why I continue to consider hlihhan as intran-
sitive, like Visser, with optional hyponomous objects in (13) and (14). So, the
verb fits in the lower part of Table 3.1, as expected from uncontrolled process.
(13)	 Þa	 hlogon	 his	 geferan	 þæs	 forcorfenan basinges
then	 laughed	 his	 companions	 that.GEN cut	 cloak.GEN
‘His companion laughed at his cut down cloak.’ (DOE, Ælfric’s Lives
of Saints, 72)
(14)	 Huru,	 ic	 swiðe	 ne	 þearf	 hinsiþ	 behlehhan.
Yes,	 I	 much	NEG	want	 death.ACC	laugh
‘Indeed, I don’t want to laugh at his death.’ (DOE, Guthlac 87.1356–7)
Tumbian ‘dance’ is an infrequent verb and is not attested with an additional
object; yrnan ‘run’ does have an object, as (15) shows. This is a hypono-
mous object.
(15)	 ac	 bioð	 3ehwerfde eft to	 þam ilcan ryne	 þe hie ær urnon
but	 are	 turned again to	 that same course	 REL they before ran
‘but are turned again to the same source that they ran before.’
(OED, Boethius xxi)
After Old English, objects (and cognate objects) increase, as Visser (1963:
415) and Lavidas (2013) have shown.
Bouso (2017) has demonstrated a similar increase in reaction objects, as in
(16), and Israel (1996) for way-constructions, as in (17). See Poutsma (1926:
47–8;81–2)andVisser(1963:412)formanysuchexamplesandtheterminology.
(16)	She smiled disbelief
	 (Bouso 2017)
50  Intransitives
(17)	 Convulsed with laughter, she giggled her way up the stairs.
(Israel 1996: 238)
Note the frequent addition of a result to the object, as in (18).
(18)	 a.	Thou . . . momblest vp thy prayer vnto god.
	 ‘You mumble your prayer to God.’
	 (Bouso, quoting the OED, 1534 translation of Erasmus)
	b.	
Men laughe hem selve to deaþ.
	 ‘Men laughed themselves to death.’
	 (Trevisa, Higden I 305, Visser 1963: 111)
Lavidas (2013) links the rise of cognate objects with the increased expres-
sion of progressive aspect in later stages of English, so this may be the rea-
son for their absence in Old English, not connected to the nature of the verb.
Chapter 9 examines how the aspectual system is reanalyzed and how the
cognate objects are used to provide some aspectual information, as Pout-
sma (1926: 76–80) argues. Thus, most cognate objects are accompanied by
a modifier and can occur with unaccusatives, as (19) shows, be it with the
adverb fain ‘willingly’.
(19)	 I would fain die a dry death
(Shakespeare, The Tempest, 1.1, from Poutsma 1926: 77)
Very similar to Modern English, argued for by Hale and Keyser, the tree
for an Old English cognate object, as in (10), would be as in (20), where
the Theme root pleg- is incorporated as V but doesn’t delete in its original
position.
Intransitives 51
Returning to the tests for unaccusative/unergative, we can nominalize the
unergative verb laugh as laugher in Modern English but not the unaccusa-
tive verb fall as faller. Expectedly, fealler does not appear in Old English,
but I haven’t been able to find an Old English equivalent of laugher or swim-
mer either. There are some unergatives, e.g. tumbian ‘dance’, as in (21), that
have a nominalized tumbere ‘dancer’, attested only in Ælfric’s Grammar,
as in (22).
(21)	 Ða	 on	 Herodes gebyrddæge	 tumbude	 þære	 Herodiadisceandohtur
Then	 on	 Herod’s birthday	 danced	 there	 Herodias’ daughter
beforan	him	 &	 hit	licode	 Herode.
before 	 him	 and	 it	 pleased	 Herod
‘When Herodias’ daughter danced before Herod on Herod’s birthday,
he was pleased.’ (DOE, Matthew 14.6 West Saxon)
(22)	 histrio	 tumbere	 oððe	 gligman
actor	 dancer	 or	 player (DOE, Ælfric Grammar 34.14)
Agentive endings in Old English are -ere or -end. A search with these finds
adjectival uses, such as se swymmenda arc ‘the floating ark’ (Ælfric, Homi-
lies, DOE), and the relevant nominal ones: wyrcend ‘worker’, widfarend
‘wanderer’, as in (23), astigend ‘rider’, ridend ‘rider’, as in (24), and ætsli-
dande ‘someone who stumbles’.
(23)	 &	 ðone	 widfarendan	 &	 ðone	 wædlan læd on ðin hus.
and	 that	 wanderer	 and	 that	 beggar lead into your house
‘And lead the wanderer and beggar into your house.’
(DOE, Cura Pastoral Care, 315.14–15)
(24)	 Ridend	 swefað
Riders	sleep
‘The riders are sleeping.’ (DOE, Beowulf 2457)
Test (d) involves imperatives. These can readily be found with core unergatives,
e.g. gan in (25), singan in (26), cnucian ‘knock’ in (27), and cuman, faran, and
yrnan ‘run’, by finding imperatives in the York Corpus of Old English. I haven’t
found them with the less core ones, e.g. hlihhan ‘laugh’ or drohtian ‘live’.
(25)	 gað	 ealle	 on	 þone	 weg
go	 all	 on	that	 road
‘Go on the road.’ (DOE, Boethius, Sedgefield 139.5)
52  Intransitives
(26)	 Drihten	 cwæþ	 to	 þæm	 englum,	 Singaþ	 nu
Lord	 said	 to	those	angels	 sing	 now
‘The lord said to the angels: sing now.’
(DOE, Morris, Blickling Homilies, Assumption of Mary 362)
(27)	 Cnuciað.	 &	 eow	 bið	 geopenod.
Knock	 and	you	 be	 opened
‘Knock and the door will be opened.’ (DOE, Clemoes, Catholic Homi-
lies 319.54)
As for participles (test (e) in Table 2.5), there are present participles that
modify nouns, as in (28) and (29). These occur with both types of verbs in
Modern English and are expected with both types of intransitives in Old
English as well.
(28)	 Hwæt	 þa	 on	 middre	nihte	 wearð	 þæt	 mynster astyrod,
Indeed	 then	 on	 mid	 night	 became	 that	 monastery stirred
and	 wearð	 micel	 gehlyd	 hlihhendra	 deofla
and	became	much	sound	 laughing	 devils
‘At midnight the monastery was awoken and there was much noise of
laughing devils.’ (DOE, Ælfric, Lives of Saints, Skeat 270, 809–10)
(29)	 þe	 se	 feallenda	 deoful	 gewanode.
REL	that	falling	 devil	 bemoaned
‘which the falling devil bemoaned.’
(DOE, Ælfric’s Catholic Homilies Palm Sunday 295, 152)
As for the use as a passive participle (test (f)), a passive of an unergative
would be unexpected, and Hogg and Fulk (2011: 249) note there happens not
to be a passive/past participle with laugh, and I haven’t found one with dance
either. As to be expected, there are examples with the passive participle of
unaccusative feallan ‘fall’ and eacan ‘to increase’, as shown in (30) and (31).
(30)	 Fyr,	 forst,	 hægel	 and	 gefeallen	 snaw,	 is	 and	 yste,
‘fire,	frost,	hail	 and	fallen	 snow,	ice	and	 storm.’
(DOE, Paris Psalter 148.8)
(31)	 þæt ic on wage geseah wlitig hangian eald sweord eacen
that I on wall saw beautiful hang old sword increased
Intransitives 53
‘That I saw an old mighty, beautiful sword hanging on the wall.’
(DOE, Beowulf 1662–3)
The second use of the past/passive participle marks the past, or perfective,
and here both unergatives and unaccusatives would be expected to occur
as such participles. Indeed, they occur. As I mentioned, the verbs laugh and
dance happen not to have attested past participles, but other unergatives,
swimman and faran, do. The unergative participle often has have as its aux-
iliary, as in (32) to (34), with the latter from early Middle English, and the
unaccusative participle has the auxiliary be, as in (35) and (36).
(32)	 Þa	 hie	 ða	 hæfdon	feorðan	 dæl	 þære ea geswummen,
then	 they	 then	 had	 fourth	 part	 that river swum
‘When they had swum a quarter of that river, . . .’
(DOE, Alexander’s Letter to Aristotle: Orchard 1995 224–52, 15.12)
(33)	 Hildewulfas	 herewicum	 neh	 gefaren	 hæfdon
Warwolves	 camp	 nigh	traveled	had
‘The warwolves had traveled close to the camp.’ (DOE, Genesis 2051)
(34)	 Til	 ðe	 sunne	 haueð	 sinen	 ðries him abuten.	 = eME
till	 the	 sun	 has	 shone	 thrice him around
‘Till the sun has shone thrice around him.’ (Bestiary, The Lion)
(35)	 Ða	 ic	 ða	 gemunde	 hu	 sio	 lar	 Lædengeðiodes
Then	 I	 then	 remembered	 how	 that	 knowledge of.Latin
ær	 ðissum afeallen	 wæs	 giond	 Angelcynn, . . .
before this	 fallen	 was	 throughout	 England
‘When I remembered how the knowledge of Latin had decayed
throughout England.’ (DOE, Pastoral Care 7.15–16)
(36)	 Wæs	 he	 se	 cyning	 in	 þa	 tid	 bicumen	 in	 swa
was	 he	that	king	 in	that	time	become	 in	so
micle	 lufan	 þære	 Romaniscan	 cirican	 gesetenisse	 & þære
apostolican
much	 love	 that	 Roman	 church	 constitution	and the
apostolical
‘The then king had become so much in love with the constitution of
the Roman and apostolical church.’ (DOE Bede, Miller 274. 29–30)
54  Intransitives
As listed in Table 3.1, we see that swimman and faran are controlled
motion, so relatively core unergatives. Scinan is uncontrolled but still has
‘have’ because of the durative aspect. Feallan and becuman are core unac-
cusatives and therefore have ‘be’. This split use of auxiliaries is similar to
the situation in Italian, Dutch, and German, discussed as (f) of Table 2.5. As
mentioned, some verbs, like libban/lifian, are very much in the middle in the
Sorace Hierarchy: the use of ‘have’ in (37) suggests that the unaccusative/
unergative split in Table 3.1 is above the verb libban.
(37)	 Alexander	 fulne	 ende	 þines	 lifes	 þu	 hæfst	 gelifd
Alexander	 full	 end	 your	 life	 you	have	 lived
ac	 þys	 æftran	 geare	 þu	 swyltst on	 Babilone
but	this	 later	 year	 you	 die	 in	 Babylon
‘Alexander, you have lived your life fully to the end but later this
year you will die in Babylon.’ (DOE, Alexander’s Letter to Aristotle,
Orchard 1995 224–52, 38.2)
Note the cognate object in (37) as well, again indicating this verb is
unergative.
Transitives, because they are durative and have an Agent, also have ‘have’,
as shown in (38) and (39), from late Old English.
(38)	 hefde	 numen	 Fulkes	 eorles	 gingre	 dohter
had	 taken	 Fulk’s	 earl’s	 younger	daughter
‘had taken the younger daughter of count Fulk.’
(Peterborough Chronicle, anno 1124)
(39)	 Headda	 abbot	 heafde	 ær	 gewriton	   
hu    Wulfhere
Headda	abbott	had	 early	written	 how	Wulfhere
‘Headda the abbot had written before how Wulfhere. . .’
(Peterborough Chronicle, 963 Interpolation)
The literature on the rivalry between have and be in English is huge. Most
notable is Rydén and Brorström (1987) but see also Visser (1973: 2044ff),
Kytö (1997), Kilpiö (1997), Ogura (2002: 95–103), and McFadden and
Alexiadou (2010). The traditional account is that have starts with transitive
participles and be with intransitive ones and that they indicate state and
result, respectively. Already in Old English, both are used with intransitives.
Above, we have seen that go is controlled motion so therefore durative and
unergative and it is indeed used with have in Old English; cf. (40) and (41).
That shows the durativity/agentivity is emphasized.
Intransitives 55
(40)	 syððan	 hie	 togædre	 gegan	 hæfdon
since	 they	together	gone	 had
‘Since they had gone together.’ (Beowulf 2628, from Jespersen 1931: 34)
(41)	 Þa	 hi	 swa	 feor	 gegan	 hæfdon	 swa	 hi	 þa	 woldon
then	they	so	 far	 gone	 had	 as	 they	then	wanted
‘When they had gone as far as they wanted.’ (Peterborough Chronicle
1010.30)
Verbs like come and go continue to be ambiguous between unaccusative and
unergative meanings even in Modern English.
As for impersonal passives, these are expected to occur with unergatives
and not with unaccusatives. Visser (1973: 2041–2) provides examples that
seem at first sight to suggest that unaccusatives can occur in this construc-
tion, as shown in (42).
(42)	 Þa	 wearð	 afeallen	 þæs	 folces	 ealdor,	 Æþelredes	 eorl
then	 was	 felled	 that	 people’s lord,	 Aethelred’s	 earl
‘Then was laid low the people’s lord, Aethelred’s earl.’
(DOE, Maldon, 202, Dobbie edition)
A verb like feallen, as we’ll see, can be causativized, and I would argue that
it is the causative that is passivized in (42). Many of the verbs listed by Vis-
ser are transitive and causative, so not impersonal passives, and I find none
with unergatives, which is unexpected.
As for the last test of Table 2.5, the tendency for unaccusatives to occur
in VS constructions more than unergatives has been noted in e.g. Warner
(2007) for the 14th and 15th centuries. In Old English main clauses, both
orders are very free because something moves to initial position but this
need not be the subject. Van Kemenade (1997) shows that, in subordinate
clauses, where subjects move less, VS is more frequent with unaccusatives
and passives, as in (43), than with unergatives.
(43)	 forðam	 þe	 him	 burston	 ut	 butu	 his	 eagan
	V	 S
because	REL	him	burst	 out	both	his	eyes
‘Because both his eyes burst out.’
(Lives of Saints, Skeat 414–30. 116, from van Kemenade 1997: 337)
56  Intransitives
In this second section, I have suggested that Old English intransitives
can be divided in two aspectual classes. As a summary, I have provided a
table (Table 3.2) with the tests listed, some that work because examples are
attested and some that don’t because examples are not attested. I will pay
attention to these classes as I now look at the changes taking place.
Although Table 3.1 suggests a continuum, languages for which we have
native speaker intuitions suggest that there is a split. I assume it is around
continuation/existence of state. Lacking native speaker judgments and cor-
pus data about the use of ‘deliberately’ and the perfect have or be, it is hard
to be precise.
In all stages of English, some verbs are fairly underspecified in meaning,
e.g. go, come, and run. All three can be used as controlled movement verbs
and, in addition, come and go can be change of state and run can be ‘con-
tinue’ or ‘operate’.
3  Changes in and Loss of Intransitives
I will first sketch what Visser says about the loss of intransitives and then
take 81 of his 223 verbs (1963: 98) to show that over half are lost and
many are renewed through light verbs and particles or become alternating
causative/inchoatives or transitives. Using a standard vP-shell, I will argue
in section 4 that Old English has a causativizing affix in its v(erb) as well as
a transitivizing affix in ASP(ect). Due to the loss of these affixes, many verbs
end up not being marked for transitivity and are therefore reanalyzed as
labile with an optional zero transitive v. This reanalysis is possible because
the basic aspect remains the same. Modern English resorts to a strict vP-
shell that favors full transitivity and the use of light verbs and resultative
particles.
Visser (1963: 97–135) offers a detailed argument that there is a decrease
in verbs that are exclusively intransitive towards Modern English and an
increase in labile verbs, e.g. boil, dry, and burn. Van Gelderen (2011b) and
the next chapter examine the changes in causative valency marking that
Table 3.2 
Characteristics of unergative and unaccusative verbs in Old English
(where % means not attested)
Unergative Unaccusative
a. (self)willes appears %(self)willes
b. a Theme can be added no Theme can be added
c. V+er %V+er
d. imperative appears %imperative
e %prenominal past participle prenominal past participle
f. be + perfect participle: some have + perfect participle: some
g. %impersonal passive occurs; possible causative
h. SV and VS more VS in subordinate clauses
Intransitives 57
allow labile verbs. In the current chapter, I examine the class of intransitives
as a whole. Looking at unaccusative and unergative verbs provides a lot of
additional insight.
Visser (1963: 100) mentions that in Modern English “not many more
than the following” 58 exclusively intransitive verbs are found, based on the
pre-1933 OED. These are listed in the top part of Table 3.3. Many of these
have disappeared2
as intransitive verbs, e.g. balbutiate, cohere, gambol,
glimpse, prate, pullulate, reluct, roister, and ululate, and many have devel-
oped transitive uses, mainly as prepositional verbs, e.g. cleave, coincide,
compete, concur, co-operate, depend, disagree, exult, luxuriate, migrate,
result, secede, strive, and vacillate. Of his 58 verbs, 40 remain as exclusively
intransitive in non-archaic Modern English. Checking certain verb classes
in Levin (1993), who doesn’t look specifically at intransitives by themselves,
I find that many can be added to those Visser lists and provide another 60
in the bottom part of Table 3.3. but could easily triple that. That the basic
inventory of intransitives has remained the same.
The discussion of motion verbs in section 5 will demonstrate that although
intransitives are lost, they are renewed by motion verbs of all kinds. In addi-
tion, I show that many intransitive verbs are renewed through light verbs
and particles.
Table 3.4 lists 81 of Visser’s 223 Old English intransitive verbs, the verbs
starting with letters a through g. A few variant forms that Bosworth and
Toller list are sometimes substituted for the originals in Visser if I couldn’t
find those in the DOE or Bosworth and Toller. This is a representative sub-
class of intransitive verbs. There are, of course, many more, e.g. bealdian
‘be bold’, drohtian ‘live’, and dreogan ‘work’, but I restrict the discussion to
the ones given in Visser.3
Also listed in the table is if they are unaccusative
(have Th) or unergative (have A) in Old English (gleaned from looking at
example sentences and keeping Table 2.7 in mind) and what they turn into
Table 3.3  Intransitive Modern English verbs
Visser’s exclusively intransitive Modern English verbs
appear, arise, balbutiate, beetle, blossom, booze, bugle, caper, caterwaul, cleave
(adhere), coexist, cohere, coincide, collapse, compete, concur, co-operate, crochet,
depend, didder, die, disagree, disappear, elope, exist, exult, lie, gab, gambol,
glimpse, glisten, glitter, gruntle, gyrate, halt, interfere, last, limp, lurk, lurch,
luxuriate, migrate, prate, pullulate, recur, reluct, result, roister, sally, secede,
shimmer, strive, swoon, thrive, ululate, vacillate, wax, yap.
More intransitives
arrive, bloom, bob, bow, breathe, catnap, come, cower, crinch, curtsey, decay,
decompose, doze, drowse, escape, exhale, faint, ferment, fester, fizz, flinch, flourish,
flow, flower, foam, genuflect, go, inhale, kneel, languish, linger, nap, persist,
perspire, prevail, propagate, prosper, quiver, recoil, remain, rot, rust, salaam,
salute, seethe, shake, shrink, sleep, slumber, smoke, smolder, snooze, sprout,
stagnate, stay, survive, swoon, wait, wilt, wince, wither.
Table 3.4  81 intransitives from Visser’s (1963: 98) list
OE verb with gloss Single argument Change to
aberstan ‘burst out, escape’ Th particle verb
ablican ‘shine’ Th obsolete
ablinan ‘cease, desist’ Th obsolete
æfnian ‘become evening’ 0 light v
æmtian/emtian ‘become
empty’
Th light v (and labile)
ærnan ‘run’ A labile (caus, unerg, unacc)
ætfellan ‘fall away’ Th particle verb
ætglidan ‘disappear, glide
away’
Th particle verb
ætslidan ‘slip, slide’ Th labile
ætspringan ‘rush forth’ Th obsolete
aferscan ‘become fresh’ Th light v
afulian ‘become foul, rot’ Th light v
alatian ‘grow sluggish’ Th obsolete
aleoran ‘depart/flee’ Th obsolete
ascortian ‘become short/pass
away’
Th light v
aslapan ‘slumber, fall asleep’ Th obsolete
berstan ‘burst’ Th burst labile (causative rare)
bifian ‘tremble/shake’ A obsolete
blinnan ‘cease’ Th obsolete
brogdian, brogdettan ‘tremble’ A obsolete
bugan ‘bow down/bend’ Th labile
cidan ‘quarrel, complain’ A transitive
cirman ‘cry (out)’ A obsolete (none in COCA/
COHA)
climban (upp) ‘climb’ A (same and) transitive
cloccian ‘cluck, make noise’ A transitive (archaic but in
COCA)
clum(m)ian ‘mumble, mutter’ A obsolete
clymmian ‘climb’ A (particle verb and) transitive
cneatian ‘argue’ A obsolete
cneowian ‘kneel down’ A obsolete
cnitian ‘dispute’ A obsolete
creopan ‘crawl’ A same: creep
cuman ‘come, approach,
arrive’
Th same: come (to)
dimmian ‘be or become dim’ Th light verb
dr(o)opian/droppan ‘drop’ Th labile
droppetan ‘drop’ Th labile
drusan/drusian ‘become slow’ Th light verb (become/make
drowsy)
dufan ‘sink, submerge’4
Th labile
dwinian/dwinan ‘waste away’ Th obsolete, now dwindle
dwelsian/dwel(i)an ‘be led
astray’
Th obsolete
dwolian ‘wander, be led
astray’
Th obsolete
OE verb with gloss Single argument Change to
dys(i)gian/dysi(g)an ‘act
foolishly’
Th obsolete
eacan/eacian ‘increase’ Th obsolete
essian ‘waste away’ Th obsolete
famgian ‘foam, boil’ Th same, rare labile use
feallan ‘fall, die’ Th same, without additional ‘die’
felan ‘touch, feel’ A transitive and copula
feohan ‘rejoice’ A obsolete
feon ‘rejoice’ A obsolete
firdian ‘march’ A obsolete
fleotan ‘float’ Th same
flicorian ‘flutter, flicker’ Th same
flowan ‘flow, melt’ Th same
fnæstian ‘breathe’ (rare) Th obsolete
fordrugan ‘become dry’ Th light verb
fordwinan ‘vanish’ Th obsolete
forgriwan ‘sink in vice’ Th obsolete
forscrincan ‘shrink up’ Th particle verb
forþfaran ‘depart, die’ Th obsolete
forþframian ‘grow up’ Th obsolete
forþgangan ‘go forth’ A particle verb
forþræsan ‘rush forth’ A particle verb
forþsiðan ‘decease’ Th obsolete
forþstæpan ‘proceed, pass by’ A obsolete
forþweaxan ‘break forth’ Th obsolete
frumlyhtan ‘dawn’ Th obsolete
galan/galian ‘sing/be wanton’ A obsolete
ganian ‘yawn, open’ A same: yawn
giccan ‘itch’ Th same
gellan/giellan ‘yell, sound,
shout’
Th same: yell
ginan/ginian ‘yawn, gape,
utter a sound’
A same
giscian ‘sob’ A obsolete
glidan ‘glide, slip’ Th same: glide
glisian ‘glitter’ Th obsolete (‘glitter’ is Old
Norse)
glisnian ‘glisten, glean’ Th same: glisten
glit(i)nian ‘glitter’ Th obsolete
gnornan/gnornian ‘mourn/
be sad’
Th obsolete
grimman ‘rage; hasten’ A obsolete
growan ‘grow’ Th labile
grunian ‘grunt’ A same
gryrran ‘gnash’ (rare) A obsolete
gegyltan ‘sin’ A light verb
60  Intransitives
in Modern English. Possible prefixes have been bolded; they add perfectivity
and telicity.
Table 3.4 lists 81 of the purely intransitive ones and provides a sense for
the general tendencies. Many do in fact disappear but some remain intransi-
tive, as shown in the summary of Table 3.5.
From the data in Table 3.4, the major changes that intransitives undergo
emerge as in (44).
(44)	 a.	a complete loss of the verb, e.g. bifian ‘to shake’,
b.	the addition of resultative particles, e.g. aberstan ‘burst out’,
c.	 the replacement by light verbs and adjective or noun, e.g. (a)latian
‘become slow’,
d.	a change of unaccusative to labile verbs, e.g. dropian ‘drop’, i.e. the
introduction of the causative/unaccusative alternation, and
e.	 a change of unergative to transitive, e.g. cidan ‘quarrel.’
Examples of these five kinds of verbs in their Old English shape are given in
(45) to (49), with the later change on the right.
(45)	 þa ic bifian geseah eorðan sceatas. 	 (a) loss
then I tremble saw earth surface.
‘Then, I saw the earth’s surface tremble.’ (DOE, Vercelli Book, Dream
36–7)
(46)	 Þær	 ic þa	 ne	 dorste ofer	 dryhtnes word	 (b) particle added
there	
I then	not	dared	
over	Lord’s	 word
bugan oððe berstan
bend or burst
‘I didn’t dare to bend or burst against the Lord’s word.’
(DOE, Vercelli Book, Dream 35–6)
Table 3.5  Changes in intransitives quantified (with main change counted)
Changed from:
Obsolete 39
Unchanged 14
Light v 9 unaccusatives (except gegyltan)
Particle 6
Labile 8 unaccusatives
Transitive 5 unergatives
Total 81
Intransitives 61
(47)	 hwi latast þu swa lange	  (c) light verb added
why delay you so long
‘Why are you taking such a long time?’
(DOE, Judgment Day II, 65, Dobbie)
(48)	 Myrre, and gutta, and cassia dropiað of þinum claðum	(d) change to labile
myrrh, aloe, and cassia drip of your clothes
‘Myrrh, aloe, and cassia drip from your clothes.’
(DOE, West Saxon Psalms 44.10)
(49)	 Þa begunnon hi to cidenne ærest him betwynan  (e) change to transitive
then began they to quarrel first them between
‘They began to quarrel amongst themselves.’
(DOE, Ælfric Homilies, Godden, 94.70)
Some of the intransitive verbs listed by Visser may be labile already and
some are counted as intransitive because their objects have non-canonical
case, i.e. dative or genitive or are clausal; I mentioned this in chapter 2. For
instance, ablin(n)an ‘to cease’ in (50) has a clausal object and emtian ‘to
empty’ typically has a dative object or adverbial, as in (51).
(50)	 ne ablin þu ðæt ðu begunnen hæfst
not cease you that you begun have
‘Don’t cease what you have begun.’  (DOE, Ælfric Homilies I,
426.9–10)
(51)	 æfter	 gereordunge	 hi	 æmtian	 heora	 rædingum
after	 repast	 they	empty	 their	 reading.DAT.P
oððe	 on	 sealmum.
or	 on	psalm.DAT.P
‘After repast, they free themselves for readings or psalms.’
(DOE, Rule of St Benet, Logeman, 48, 82.13)
The verbs in Table 3.5 that become obsolete and those that remain the
same come in all kinds. Many, among the 39 that become obsolete, are
‘uncontrolled process’: bifian ‘tremble/shake’, brogdian, brogdettan ‘trem-
ble’, cirman ‘cry (out)’, clum(m)ian ‘mumble, mutter’, fnæstian ‘breathe’,
giscian ‘sob’, glisian ‘glitter’, and glit(e)nian ‘glitter, shine’. These verbs are
62  Intransitives
durative but non-agentive, so not core unergatives, but that could not be
reason for their demise.
The verbs that are renewed by light verbs are deadjectival and denomi-
nal verbs, namely æfnian, æmtian, aferscan, afulian, ascortian, dimmian,
drusian, and fordragan. The deadjectival verbs are all unaccusatives in Old
English and the new light verb determines whether it is unaccusative or
causative. So, many add a causative possibility, keeping the basic change-of-
state aspect stable.
The denominal agyltan, gegyltan, and forgyltan are unergative, as in (52),
and this is expected with denominals because they can incorporate the noun.
(52)	a.	Ðeah	 ðe	 he	 self	 gegyltan	 ne	 meahte
	 Though	that	he	himself	 sin	 not	could
	 ‘Although he himself could not sin.’ (DOE, Pastoral Care, Hatton
385.17)
b.	Forðon hie nan	 monn	 ne	 dearr	 ðreagean ðeah hie agyltan
	 because they no	 man	 not	 dare	 admonish though they sin
	 ‘Because no man may admonish them if they sin.’
	(DOE, Pastoral Care, Hatton 31.12)
The replacement be guilty is a light verb but it changes the argument into a
Theme.
The new particles replace a prefix, as in aberstan, ætfellan, ætglidan,
ætspringan, forscrincan, forþgangangan, and forþræsan. Like the prefixes,
the new particles indicate either a path with durative verbs, such as go forth,
or a change of state with telic verbs, as in (53).
(53)	a.	þanan	 heora	 nan	 ne	 mæg	 syððan ut	 aberstan
	 thence	 of.them	 none	 not	 may	 after out	 escape
	 ‘None of them may escape from there afterwards.’
	(DOE, Homilies, Dominica VI post Pentecosten 166, Pope edition)
b.	asprang	 up	 to	 þan	 swiðe	 sæ	 flod
	sprang	 up	to	that	height	sea	flood
	 ‘Then the sea flood sprang up to great heights.’ (Peterborough
Chronicle 1099)
The change to labile verb affects ærnan, ætslidan, berstan, bugan, drop-
pian, droppetan, and growan. Apart from ærnan, these are all unaccusative
and, as expected, gain optional causatives. The case of ærnan is complex,
Intransitives 63
even in Modern English. It looks like an unergative in Old English, as in (54),
but Clark Hall (1916) labels it “strictly causative”. It definitely acquires
causative (as in I ran the dishwasher) as well as copula meanings (the latter
deriving from an unaccusative as in The river ran dry). It continues to be
unergative in Modern English.
(54)	 Þonne	 ærnað	 hy	 ealle	 toweard	 þæm	 feo
then	 run	 they	all	 toward	 that	 treasure
‘Then they all run towards the treasure.’ (DOE, Orosius 17.21)
The five unergative verbs that become transitive are cidan ‘chide’, as in
(55), climban ‘climb’, cloccian ‘cluck’, clymmian ‘climb’, and felan ‘feel’.
The latter is listed by Visser as intransitive but, in a later chapter, I show
that there are in fact transitive examples. Cloccian is archaic but the others
acquire a regular Theme, as (55) shows already happened in Old English
with a dative object.
(55)	a.	&	 swiðlice	 ongan	 him	 cidan
	 and	strongly	began	 him.DAT	chide
	 ‘and began to chide him strongly.’ (Gregory’s Dialogue, Hecht, 144.11)
b.	Forðæm com Nathan to	 cidanne ðæm	 cyninge Dauide
therefore came Nathan to  chide  that.DAT  king.DAT David.DAT
	 ‘Therefore Nathan came to rebuke King David.’
	(DOE, Pastoral Care, Hatton, 185.17)
c.	 Hwilum   eac  ðonne  mon  ðæm  ricum  cidan  sceal
	 sometimes  also  then   man  the.DAT rich.DAT chide shall
	 ‘Sometimes, one also has to rebuke a rich person.’
	(DOE, Pastoral Care, Hatton, 185.9–10)
In Modern English, the object becomes less peripheral, as Visser (1963: 355)
notes. A few more Old English unergatives that are later reanalyzed as tran-
sitives include heofan ‘lament’, as in (56a), and hnigan ‘bow, bend’, as in
(56b). The latter is intransitive since mid heafdum is an adverbial PP, not a
direct object.
(56)	a.	Nænig ne sie se ðe ne sarige his synna, & wepan he sceal
	 nobody not be DEM REL not grieve his sins and weep he shall
	 & hreowsian þæt he ne scyle on ecnesse heofan.
64  Intransitives
	 and repent that he not should on eternity lament
	 ‘There is nobody who is not sorry for his sins and he shall weep and
be sorry that he doesn’t lament for ever.’ (DOE, Vercelli Homilies
22.74–5, Scragg 1992: 371)
b.	 Unc wearð god yrre forþon wit him noldon on heofonrice hnigan
mid heafdum halgum drihtne þurh geongordom.
	 ‘We received God’s anger because we didn’t bow with our heads in
service before the holy lord.’ (DOE, Genesis AB, 740)
Let me add a note on sound emission verbs, e.g. beep, buzz, yell, and
even laugh. As many people have noted (e.g. Folli and Harley 2008; Pot-
ashnik 2012), the semantics of these verbs suggest a single Theme argument
because this argument is not deliberately doing the action. The durative
aspect overrides that and makes the verb unergative in that -er nominaliza-
tions occur and ‘have’ is used in languages that have this distinction.
In conclusion to section 3, I have shown the changes the intransitives
undergo from early to later English: many are lost and many become causa-
tive or transitive, keeping their original aspect. I will now demonstrate what
these changes mean in terms of aspect, for the inventory of light verbs and
particles, for theta-roles, and for the vP-shell.
4  Analytical Tendencies
The results of Tables 3.5 and 3.6 can be summarized as (a) unergative verbs
are reanalyzed as transitives, and (b) unaccusative verbs are reanalyzed as
labile verbs or with either become or make as optional light verbs. In tree
form, these changes are shown as (57) and (58) respectively.
Intransitives 65
Let’s look at some more examples. The verb climban is unergative in Old
English and late Old/early Middle English, as in (59), and is reanalyzed as
transitive, as in (60).
(59)	a.	Gif hit unwitan ænige hwile healdað butan hæftum,
	 If it (light) unwise any time holds without fetters
	 hit ðurh hrof wædeð, bryceð and bærneð boldgetimbru,
	 it through roof wades, breaks and burns timbers
	 seomað steap and geap, stigeð on lenge, clymmeð on gecyndo
	 hangs steep and high, rises in length, climbs in nature.
	
‘If an unwise person holds it (light) without bounds, it will go
through the roof and break and burn the timbers (of a house); it
hangs steep and high and rises and climbs in nature.’ (DOE, Solo-
mon and Saturn 412–6, Dobbie 1942)
b.	ac hi . . . geodon into þe mynstre, clumben upp to þe halge rode
	
but they . . . went into the monastery, climbed up to the holy cross
(to take the crown of the head of Jesus) (Peterborough 1070)
(60)	a.	To climbe þe cludes all þe sunn sal haf þe might.
	 ‘To climb the clouds the sun shall have the power.’
	(OED, Cursor Mundi, Vesp. 16267)
b.	Thai stoutly clam the hill.
	 ‘They courageously climbed the hill.’
	 (OED, Barbour Bruce, St. John’s Cambr. x. 63)
The verb ‘climb’ is unusual, as Levin and Rappaport Hovav (2014: 355)
argue for Modern English, in that it is both a manner and result verb: man-
ner in the climbing but result in the upward movement. To emphasize the
result reading, the particle is added in (59b).
66  Intransitives
Unaccusatives in Old English, as in (61), are reanalyzed as labile, as (62)
shows, or with a light verb, as in (63). The latter is unusual for spoken
English.
(61)	 æfter gereordunge hi æmtian heora rædingum oððe on sealmum.
after repast they empty their readings or (spend it) on psalms
‘After repast, they free themselves for readings or psalms.’
(Rule of St Benet, Logeman, 48, 82.13)
(62)	 a.	
Elijah’s cup, which we like to believe miraculously empties during
the service (COCA 2012)
	 b.	Hugo empties his pockets of screws, springs, and other tiny metal
pieces. (COCA 2012)
(63)	 His old identity is like a container that has now become empty. (COCA
2009)
In the last two sections, I have shown changes in intransitives without spe-
cifically looking at motion verbs. I will do that next.
5  Renewal of Intransitives: Motion Verbs
Motion verbs are distributed between unergative and unaccusative in
Table 3.1: they can indicate a change in location (unaccusative) or a con-
trolled motional process (unergative). Since Talmy (1985), languages have
also been classified according to whether their motion verbs encode the
path or the manner of an event. English, throughout its history, has had
more manner of motion verbs with the path being indicated by an adverb
or particle, as in (57b). As with the verb climb, it is in general difficult to
say whether verbs such as fall and kneel are manner or path since they
express both manner (using full body and using knees, respectively) and a
downward path. I will therefore not pay a lot of attention to path or man-
ner here but just observe the renewal. Mainly based on the work of Fanego
(2012), I first illustrate that motion verbs are relatively resilient in English
and that they are renewed frequently. Then I provide a structural represen-
tation compatible with the intransitives just discussed.
Fanego (2012) follows Talmy’s (1985) classification of motion verbs. Old,
Middle, and Modern English are typical of the latter type. Thus, crawl and
limp are verbs that express the manner and Spanish cruzar ‘cross’ indicates
the path. Fanego finds around 70 verbs indicating manner of motion5
in Old
English (2012: 41–2), e.g. (a)healtian ‘to limp’, slincan ‘to creep’, and tengan
‘to hasten’. Verbs like gan ‘go’ are seen as neutral verbs and not considered.
Quite a few of the motion verbs remain in use in Modern English. Middle
English has 181 new manner verbs and 15 new path verbs. Almost half of
Intransitives 67
the manner of motion verbs are of native origin, e.g. semantic extensions
such as (ge)spedan, which means ‘prosper’ in Old English and is extended to
mean ‘to hasten’, or new formations in -er or -el, such as clamber ‘to climb
with difficulty’ and bustle ‘to thrash around’, or denominal verbs, such as
foot ‘to dance’. Some of the intransitives arise from transitives that become
labile, e.g. stridan ‘mount a horse’ and wadan ‘walk through water’. Many
of the new manner verbs arise from loans: 37 from Old Norse, e.g. staker
‘stagger’ and blonder ‘blunder’; 35 from French, e.g. sault ‘to leap’; and 14
from Middle Dutch/Low German, e.g. hobble ‘to walk lamely’. The 15 new
path verbs are verbs like arrive, ascend, depart, and enter and are mainly
from French; one is denominal, namely cross.
There are 21 motion verbs in Table 3.4: aberstan, ærnan ‘burst out’,
ætfellan ‘fall away’, ætglidan ‘disappear’, ætslidan ‘slide’, ætspringan
‘rush forth’, aleoran ‘depart’, clymmian ‘climb’, cneowian ‘kneel’, creopan
‘crawl’, dufan ‘dive’, dwelsian ‘wander’, dwolian ‘wander’, fleotan ‘float’,
fordwinan ‘vanish’, forþfaran ‘depart’, forþgangan ‘go forth’, forþræsan
‘rush forth’, forþweaxan ‘break forth’, glidan ‘glide’, and cuman ‘come’. Of
these 21, 7 become obsolete so, compared to all intransitives, motion verbs
are relatively resilient. Of the 21, 11 are particle verbs because the particle
provides the path.
Let’s look at how some of the new motion verbs are first used in Middle
English. In Old English, the intransitive (ge)spedan has the meaning of ‘to
prosper’, as in (64). It derives from the noun sped ‘abundance, success’ but
is not very frequent.
(64)	 Filippe frankæne kyng ne spedde naht æt fernuyl.
‘Phillip the French king was not successful at. . .’
(DOE, Ker, 1957 331)
When it is first used as a motion verb in (65) and (66), it is transitive, and
only later intransitive, as in (67). It is hard to know what kind of intransi-
tive it is; from the use of the imperative in (66) and (67), it is most likely
unergative.
(65)	 Egipte folc hem hauen ut sped.
Egyptian people them have out hastened
‘The Egyptian people hastened them out.’ (OED, Genesis and Exodus
3178)
(66)	 Ga to mete him, þou þe spede.
‘Go to meet him, hasten yourself.’ (OED, Cursor Mundi, Vesp. 10555)
(67)	 Speid fast, he said. (OED, 1488, William Wallace Actis)
68  Intransitives
The verb arrive ‘to come to shore’ is a loan from French and is initially
both unaccusative, as in (68) and (69), and causative, as in (70).
(68)	 Þat folc of Denemarch. . . aryuede in þe Norþ contreye.
‘The people of Denmark . . . arrived in the North country.’ (OED,
Gloucester Chron. 371)
(69)	 Nu	 beoð	 of Brutaine	 beornes ariued . . .   i þis lond at Tottenæs
Now  are   of Brittany  barons arrived. . .   into this land at Totnes
‘The barons have arrived from Brittany into the land at Totnes.’
(OED, Layamon, Caligula, 8016)
(70)	 Þe wynde aryueþ þe sayles of vlixes . . . and hys wandryng shippes . . .
in to þe isle þere as Circe . . . dwelleþ.
‘The wind (makes) arrive the sails of Ulysses . . . and his wander-
ing ships . . . into the island where Circes dwells.’ (OED, Chaucer,
Boethius, 4.3.122)
The pattern in their development is in accordance with what we have seen
above, namely that the unergative and transitive are uses of one verb and
unaccusative and causative of another.
The renewal of motion verbs is phenomenal, however, and most occur
through internal change, especially later on. Thus, in early Modern Eng-
lish, according to Fanego (2012), 205 new motion verbs appear and, in
late Modern English, 250 new verbs of manner do. The number of loans
decreases drastically: 19 for early Modern English and 10 in late Modern
English. Most are semantic extensions of existing verbs, denominalizations,
or new affixes. In both periods, there are three new path verbs, all six of
native origin.
So what do these data mean for our picture of changes to intransitives?
Motion verbs are central among intransitives, as can be seen from look-
ing at Table 3.1. Throughout its history, Fanego (2012) argues that speak-
ers of English have favored manner of motion verbs while adding the path
through particles or a PP. As I said, I think it is sometimes hard to make the
distinction. The verb arrive in (68) to (70) is supposedly a path verb, but a
path is explicitly mentioned as well in all three. What is easier to see is that
arrive is a telic verb and therefore goes with unaccusative/causative use.
In fact, Germanic manner of motion verbs are ambiguous between activ-
ity (unergative) and directed motion (unaccusative) meanings. In Table 2.7,
this would be controlled process versus change of location. For instance, in
Dutch, an unergative process auxiliary hebben is found in (71) but an unac-
cusative change of location one, zijn, appears in (72). The main verb is the
same manner of motion verb wandelen ‘walk’.
Intransitives 69
(71)	 Ik heb heerlijk gewandeld.  auxiliary is hebben ‘to have’
I have lovely walked
‘I have had a great walk.’
(72)	 Ik ben daarheen gewandeld.  auxiliary is zijn ‘to be’
I am there.to walked
‘I’ve walked there.’
Old and Modern English similarly allow manner of motion verbs to com-
bine with activity adverbials, e.g. (73), or directional PPs, as in (74).
(73)	 He danced for hours.
(74)	 John danced to the park (in an hour).
Jackendoff (1983) proposes that the structure of the motion verb in (74)
is an abstract GO modified by the manner of motion verb with a meaning
of (75).
(75)	 John went to the park dancing.
Zubizarreta and Oh (2007: 41–8) account for the two sides (manner and
path) of motion verbs through a covert light verb GO introducing the Goal
argument, as in (76).
Romance does not have this compounding of GO to a manner verb and
that explains why in most Romance languages manner of motion verbs
exclude the addition of a direction or goal.
70  Intransitives
The basic insight is that there are two sets of verbs, process-oriented uner-
gatives with a vP and result-oriented unaccusatives with a VP. Some lan-
guages allow special constructions, such as (74).
As already mentioned, there is a lot of unclarity about the terms manner
and direction of motion and, as a result, about unergative and unaccusative
verbs. A set of Levin’s (1993: 263–70) direction/path verbs appears in (77).
(77)	 advance, arrive, ascend, climb, come, cross, depart, descend, enter,
escape, exit, fall, flee, go, leave, plunge, recede, return, rise, tumble.
Among these, come and go are neutral and I would label fall, rise, tum-
ble, and flee as manner of motion verbs. This is confirmed if one looks at
corpus-data because many of these need an overt PP indicating the path or
direction.
Levin labels the following as manner of motion around an axis (1993:
264): coil, revolve, rotate, spin, turn, twirl, twist, whirl, wind. To me, many
of these indicate direction or goal. Further evidence that the manner of
motion verbs are ambiguous is that they are labile and this is a sign of unac-
cusativity. Thus, Levin’s (1993: 264) manner of motion verbs bounce, drop,
float, glide, move, roll, slide, and swing are.
The run-verbs (Levin 1993: 265–6) are manner of motion, as expected;
see Table 3.6.
In conclusion, motion verbs in English have seen much loss and renewal.
These verbs are mostly manner of motion, e.g. see Table 3.6. Goals and
paths can be added through PPs and particles.
6 Acquisition
In this section, I provide a perspective from first language acquisition to see
what kinds of intransitive verbs children use first, how they develop, and
how they use them. I first examine a file from a child at the age of 1;6 and
then files from another child from roughly 1 to 1;3 years of age. These should
Table 3.6  Run-verbs (Levin 1993: 265–6)
amble, backpack, bolt, bounce, bound, bowl, canter, carom, cavort, charge,
clamber, climb, clump, coast, crawl, creep, dart, dash, dodder, drift, file, flit,
float, fly, frolic, gallop, gambol, glide, goosestep, hasten, hike, hobble, hop, hurry,
hurtle, inch, jog, journey, jog, leap, limp, lollop, lope, lumber, lurch, march,
meander, mince, mosey, nip, pad, parade, perambulate, plod, prance, promenade,
prowl, race, ramble, roam, roll, romp, rove, run, rush, sashay, saunter, scamper,
scoot, scram, scramble, scud, scurry, scutter, scuttle, slither, slog, slouch, sneak,
somersault, speed, stagger, stomp, stray, streak, stride, stroll, strut, stumble, stump,
swagger, sweep, swim, tack, tear, tiptoe, toddle, totter, traipse, tramp, travel, trek,
troop, trot, trudge, trundle, vault, waddle, wade, walk, wander, whiz, zigzag, zoom
Intransitives 71
give us a picture of early verb use. Verbs and adjectives are both included
because light verbs and copulas are often omitted in early speech.
As mentioned in chapter 2, Bloom, Lifter and Hafitz (1980) argue that
children are conscious of aspectual verb classes very early on. Thus, -ed
morphemes go with non-durative events, -ing with durative non-completive
activities, and infinitives with stative verbs. Various researchers agree on
this: e.g. Broman Olsen and Weinberg (1999) likewise show that a telic verb
correlates with the presence of -ed and that -ing is frequent with dynamic
and durative verbs.
Table 3.7 lists all the adjectives and verbs for the English-learning child
Eve (Brown 1973) at the time of her first recording. All types of verbs occur
and a few of the activity verbs are marked with -ing (swimming and writing)
and a past is marked on a telic unaccusative (broke), as expected.
Apart from the aspectual classes of intransitives being marked differently,
it can be observed that all intransitives, causatives, transitives, and subject
experiencer verbs are present. I will come back to Eve’s use of transitives in
the next chapter. Note that ditransitives and object experiencer verbs are
not yet present.
Because Eve’s data are from a relatively advanced stage, all intransitive
verb types are present. If we look at Naima (Demuth, Culbertson and Alter
2006), who is in a slightly earlier (mainly one-word) stage, we see the set
presented in (78).
Table 3.7 
Eve’s verbs in context at 1;6 (parentheses indicate optional material),
from Brown (1973)
unaccusative unergative transitive other
block broke (fish are) swimming Eve pencil that radio (copula)
(Neil) sit wait, play, cook I did it
down, busy, gone look Eve/you find it
Mommy down, open Eve writing see ya
come down, stand dance doll eat celery
sit down, fall down Mommy step read the puzzle
(finger) stuck Mommy swing? change her
lie down stool man (no) taste it
get her/it
fix (it)/Mommy fix
bring it
want Mommy letter
write a paper
man/papa have it
(you) find it
play (step)
unclear
(Mommy) turn (winding something)
72  Intransitives
(78)	 Naima’s first predicates (Demuth, Culbertson and Alter 2006)
0;11.28	 delicious, down, good, eat, there
1;0.28	 beep, beeper, down, go
1;1.11	 late, roll, where’d it go?
1;1.25	 get baby, slide, truck went by, good
1;2.07	 buy, down
1;2.23	 bumping, down, keep it, sleeping, sleepy, squeeze, up
1;3.07	
beep beep, buy, clean(ed), cold, give Mommy, gone, hot,
messy, on, pick music, play tower, up
Many verbs and adjectives are unaccusative (down, good, late, roll, went
by); a few are unergative (sleep, beep) and transitive (eat, buy). So, as far as
the intransitives are concerned, they are present right from the start. I will
look at the transitives and the possibly causatives (clean) in chapter 4. The
verb forms in (78) present the same aspect phenomena that have been noted
before: unaccusative/causative has -ed (cleaned) and unergative/transitive
has -ing (bumping, sleeping). These data capture when verbs are first being
used. It turns out that here too all types of verbs appear, indicating that the
conceptual VP-shell, with a higher Agent/durative area and a lower Theme/
telic area, is present from the beginning.
Language acquisition studies of children blind from birth (Landau 1982;
Landau and Gleitman 1985; Bigelow 1987; Gleitman 1990) have exam-
ined how these children use see and look for touching, that they initially
use more general nominals, more action words, and fewer modifiers, but
that their acquisition closely parallels that of sighted children. These studies
haven’t looked into the types of intransitive verbs they use and that might
tell us something on how children experience aspect. The Childes files (cf.
Peters 1987 and Wilson and Peters 1988) show that the visually impaired
child6
whose language is transcribed uses many of the same verbs as the
children described before. (79) summarizes this first verb use of the visually
impaired child, from 1:3.27 to 1;8.02.
(79)	 unaccusative	 unergative	 transitive	 unclear
gross, hot, ready  knock(knock)  eat, had cake  go home
dirty, down	 talk, wait, look	 come in
happen	 kick, swimming
This shows that the -ing is used with unergatives, although the -ed is not
with unaccusatives. One can see the father stressing the past tense in the
exchange in (80), which stops there, without the child picking up on it.
Intransitives 73
(80)	 *FAT:	 that (i)s exactly what happened.
*CHI:	 happen.
*FAT:	 happened.
In conclusion to this section, unergatives and unaccusatives are both present
from the beginning of word use. There is also evidence that children know
the aspectual distinction between them early on.
7 Conclusion
In this chapter, I have examined changes affecting intransitive verbs in the
early history of English. Visser claims that many intransitives disappear
and, although many are indeed lost and change into transitive and causa-
tive verbs, intransitives are in turn renewed through internal and external
means.
I started by arguing that the same division between intransitives in unac-
cusative and unergative holds in Old English as it does in other languages.
Having made that distinction, I then looked at the changes affecting these
two classes. We could see how, in the case of unaccusatives, the Causer
was added and, in the case of unergatives, the Theme was. That suggests
that there is a strong connection between the basic aspect of a root and the
additional arguments it can take. Child language acquisition data confirm
that the aspect and theta-structure seem to be available right from the start.
In this Appendix, I’ll mention a verb that may be an anomaly. In current
English, the verb occur is both an unaccusative and psych-verb, as (81) and
(82) show, respectively.
(81)	 The peer tutoring phase occurred directly after the instruction phase
for the tutor. (COCA 2015)
(82)	 That’s when a new idea occurred to me. (COCA 2014)
This alternation might seem unexpected because, if the former is more
basic, one expects a Causer rather than an Experiencer. This verb is like
arrive in not allowing a Causer; see Table 2.6. Other verbs in that class typi-
cally occur with an expletive and two of these, appear and come, have an
optional Experiencer.
The situation for occur described by the OED is one where both meanings
are present from the time when the verb enters the English language, namely
around 1500, as in (83) and (84).
(83)	 James of dowglas . . . said þt quhen tyme occurrit he wald schew sic
Richtis as he haid.
‘James of Douglass said that when time occurred he would show such
rights as he had.’ (OED, 1495, Acts Lords of Council Civil Causes,
393/2)
(84)	 I sall reheirs ane part off euerilk kynd, Als fer as now occurris to my
mynd.
‘I shall rehearse a part of every kind, as far as (it) now occurs to my
mind.’
(OED, a1500, Henryson tr. Æsop Fables: Trial of Fox l. 886 in Poems, 37)
So, the basic meaning of this verb is unaccusative but, as in the case of two
other unaccusatives without a Causer, there is an optional Experiencer.
Appendix
Intransitives 75
Notes
1	 Play is a fairly complex verb that the OED divides in two main meanings, of
movement and recreation. These have occurred since Old English in transitive and
intransitive uses.
2	 I have checked these with a few non-linguist native speakers of American English
and most do not know these.
3	 For instance, Broz (2011: 118) provides a table with the most frequent a-prefixed
verbs, and arisan ‘stand up’ occurs 226 times but is not listed in Visser.
4	The telic verb dufan was already an alternating verb between unaccusative ‘sink’
and causative ‘submerge’ and became the labile dive, according to the OED. The
current durative use is an unclear later development not mentioned in the OED
(cf. the noun dive wasn’t introduced until 1700 when the difference between
‘plunge’ and ‘dive’ became defined).
5	 She makes a finer distinction. Of her Old English verbs, 32 are mode of motion, e.g.
ahealtian ‘to limp’, 25 are speed of motion, e.g. besceotan ‘to rush’, 10 are course
of motion, e.g. faran ‘to travel’, and 2 indicate a vehicle, e.g. rowan ‘to row’.
6	 The Childes Manual suggests that the files have not been anonymized enough, so
I leave out the name of the child.
1 Introduction
In the previous chapter, we saw changes in intransitives, with some verbs
adding more possibilities to their repertoire by adding transitive or causa-
tive options. These changes in valency can be seen as remaining compatible
with the inner aspect of the verbs involved. In this chapter, we’ll look at
causatives and transitives and how the demise of the morphological causa-
tive and the transitive at the end of the Old English period impacts verbs.
We’ll examine the reanalyses of valency marking that take place as a result,
emphasizing the structural representation.
Centuries of work on valency marking exists (Skeat 1892; Poutsma 1926;
van Hamel 1931; Prokosch 1939; Hermodsson 1952; Visser 1946–1952;
1963–1973; Bammesberger 1965; Suzuki 1989; Kulikov 2001, 2009;
Narogg 2009; Ottosson 2013; and Cennamo, Eythórsson and Barðdal 2010
to name but a few). My chapter heavily relies on this work, especially on
Visser (1946, 1963). Visser (1963: 97–135) offers a detailed argument that
there is an increase in labile verbs towards Modern English, e.g. boil, dry,
and burn, which we saw in the previous chapter as well. Using the repre-
sentation of the Verb Phrase outlined in chapter 2, I will argue that Old
English has a causativizing affix in its little v(erb) as well as a transitivizing
affix also licensing grammatical aspect. Due to the loss of these affixes, both
causative and transitive verbs end up not being overtly marked for their
valency. Because of this lability in some verbs, other intransitive verbs join
and become labile.
The outline is as follows. In section 2, I examine valency marking in
general and in Old English in particular and show how transitivizing and
detransitivizing strategies can be accommodated using a vP-shell. In sec-
tion 3, I describe some changes in the marking of causative valency in the
history of English and, in section 4, in the marking of transitive verbs. In
section 5, I suggest how these changes inform the representation of argu-
ment structure. Section 6 reviews what is known about the acquisition of
(mainly) causative verbs, and section 7 is a conclusion.
4	 Causatives and Transitives
Causatives and Transitives 77
2  Valency Marking
In this section, I discuss certain proposals for describing (basic) valency
and differences that have been observed among languages (section 2.1). If
some languages are detransitivizing, this seems to present a problem for the
vP-shell that introduces Agent and Theme theta-roles through light verbs
and would predict only transitivizing/causativizing tendencies. I show how
detransitivization can be dealt with through light verbs (section 2.2). I also
present the Old English situation (section 2.3).
2.1  A Cross-Linguistic Perspective
In the typological literature, there has long been an interest in valency and in
particular cross-linguistic differences in expressions of valency. It has been
claimed that languages differ in basic valency orientation. Thus, Haspelmath
(1993), Abraham (1997a), Nichols, Peterson and Barnes (2004), Comrie
(2006), and Plank and Lahiri (2009) argue that languages have a basic
valency orientation that shows itself in being morphologically less complex
than the non-basic one. Many of these authors (e.g. Nichols and Comrie)
note a diachronic stability. However, Modern English differs markedly from
its Germanic neighbors in having more labile verbs.
As mentioned in chapter 2, where I discussed why certain unaccusatives
don’t causativize, Haspelmath (1993) studies 31 alternating verb sets in 21
languages and this shows English to have many labile verbs. The verbs are
given in Table 4.1 and I have divided them into those that are labile in Mod-
ern English and those that are not.
Haspelmath distinguishes the strategies languages use to change the
valency: causative, anticausative, and three non-directive strategies, labile,
equipollent, and suppletive. Comrie (2006) expands Haspelmath’s 21 lan-
guages to 24. Their findings for six languages are given in Table 4.2.
Of the 31 verbs in Haspelmath’s and Comrie’s studies, English has two
anticausative, i.e. detransitivizing, verbs, one equipollent, 25 labile, and
three suppletive verbs, making it clearly a labile type language. German, in
contrast, has 15.5 anticausatives, one causative, four equipollent, nine and a
half labile verbs, and one suppletive verb. Russian has 23 anticausatives, five
Table 4.1  Alternating verbs in Haspelmath
Labile Non-labile
boil, freeze, dry, wake up, sink, die/kill, learn/teach, rise/raise (Suppletive)
melt, stop, turn, dissolve, burn, get lost/lose, be destroyed/destroy
gather, open, break, close, split, (Anticausative)
fill, finish, begin, spread, roll, go out/put out (Equipollent)
develop, improve, rock, connect, change
78  Causatives and Transitives
equipollent verbs, and three suppletive ones. So, Russian is clearly detran-
sitivizing, and German is less detransitivizing than Russian but still quite
clearly detransitivizing. French is closer to Russian in being detransitivizing.
Mongolian is very transitivizing and Indonesian is so to a lesser extent.
Nichols, Peterson and Barnes (2004), in a study looking at the causa-
tive of both transitive and intransitive verbs and including many more lan-
guages, recognize several ways to change valency, among which are listed
augmentation, reduction, suppletion, and ablaut. They select 18 verbs that
vary between a ‘plain’ use with one argument, e.g. laugh and sit, and an
‘induced’ one with more than one, e.g. make laugh and seat. The 18 verbs
Nichols et al. select are listed in Table 4.3, where the first nine have an
animate as single argument, i.e. an animate argument with some kind of
agency, and the second nine an inanimate argument. In the first column, the
argument bears an S relationship to the verb, whereas the verb has an A and
O relationship with its arguments in the second column.
Note that the grammatical relations A that are added in the second col-
umn are semantically quite different and so are the verbs. For instance,
laugh is an unergative verb with an Agent as S, and a Causer is added to
render make laugh, whereas die is an unaccusative verb with a Theme as S
and the addition of a Causer results in kill; adding a Causer to the transitives
eat and learn makes feed and teach. The verbs see, be(come) angry, and fear
have Experiencers as S relations in the first column that turn into grammati-
cal O relations with show, anger, and frighten. This variety of verbs in the
table provides a good sample of labile verbs.
The 80 languages in the sample are then classified as to what kind of valency
changes they undergo: transitivizing, detransitivizing, neutral, and indetermi-
nate. Of the nine animate verbs, i.e. numbers 1–9 in Table 4.3, Russian relates
six sets through a marker indicating A-reduction, e.g. a reflexive -sja in (1).
(1)	 razbit’ ‘break something’  >  razbit’-sja ‘break’
Russian is classified as a detransitivizing language, in agreement with
Haspelmath and Comrie. Its basic valency is transitive because, with six of
the 18 verbs in Table 4.3, the intransitive is derived and four and a half are
suppletive. Suppletive verbs say nothing of course about the basic valency.
Table 4.2 
Russian, German, English, and Indonesian (from Haspelmath 1993: 101,
adapted by Comrie 2006: 306)1
Anticausative Causative Equipollent Labile Suppletive
Russian 23 0 5 0 3
German 15.5 1 4 9.5 1
French 20.5 2 0 7.5 1
English 2 0 1 25 3
Mongolian 6 22 2 0 1
Indonesian 0 14 17 0 0
Causatives and Transitives 79
Table 4.3 
Alternating verbs in Nichols, Peterson and
Barnes (2004: 156) (slightly adapted)
1 laugh make laugh
2 die kill
3 sit seat
4 eat feed
5 learn teach
6 see show
7 be(come) angry anger
8 fear frighten
9 hide hide
10 boil boil
11 burn burn
12 break break
13 open open
14 dry (make) dry
15 be(come) straight straighten
16 hang hang (up)
17 turn over turn over
18 fall drop
German is also classified as a slightly detransitivizing language with three
out of the nine (animate) intransitives derived, five suppletive pairs, and one
not clear. However, based on the inanimate sets German can be labeled as
indeterminate and Russian as still being of a basic transitive type.
2.2  Transitivizing and Detransitivizing a vP
Before going on to look at the basic valency of Old and Modern English,
I’ll show how a vP-shell accommodates transitivization (not hard, keeping
in mind the discussion in chapter 2) and detransitivization. We have seen in
the previous chapter that light verbs can be added to causativize a structure,
i.e. to (2a) a light v can be added, as in (2b), that causativizes.
80  Causatives and Transitives
How is the reverse possible, as in e.g. Russian (1)? I haven’t seen much in
the literature on this but one solution is to add the reflexive -sja as a light
verb in (3). This head licenses an argumental function (shown through SJA)
but that fails to assign case to the DP object.
If different languages have a different basic valency, this can be accounted
for by the choices they make among the light verbs.
2.3  Old English
McMillion (2006: 192) examines 110 labile verbs throughout the entire
history of English to determine the direction and he finds a detransitivizing
trend, like Nichols et al. However, Plank and Lahiri (2009) criticize Nichols
et al.’s view that German and Russian are detransitivizing. Their main argu-
ment is that many strong verbs in German(ic) are associated with intransi-
tivity and weak ones with transitivity and that the latter are derived from
the former. That makes Germanic transitivizing. The reason behind these
alternations, as Plank and Lahiri explain, is that Germanic causative verbs
are often derived from intransitive verbs (more specifically unaccusative) by
means of a -j suffix. This suffix surfaces as -i in Old English and has, among
other things, a fronting and raising effect on the vowel (hence fall > fell, sit
> set, rise > raise, lie > lay, bite > bait).
Because the vowel is fronted, the past tenses of these verbs no longer par-
ticipate in the ablaut alternation of the strong intransitive verbs and end up
using the past tense of the light verb ‘do’. The past endings of weak verbs
are therefore -ed, the cliticized form of the light verb. The origin of the Ger-
manic dental past tense is tricky since no actual light verb surfaces in any of
the languages (see Tops 1974; Lahiri 2000; Hill 2010, to name but a few).
In the remainder of section 2.3, I will construct a table in the spirit of
Nichols et al. Their list is less uniform than Haspelmath’s or Comrie’s list of
unaccusative and causative verbs in that transitives and unergatives are also
Causatives and Transitives 81
included. As I mentioned in connection with Table 3.4, because there are no
native speakers of Old English, it is hard to construct a table with the least
marked set of verbs alternating in valency. So, Table 4.4 has to be interpreted
carefully. For instance, the intransitive verb ‘boil’ has three main representa-
tions in Germanic, according to Buck (1949), of which some cognates are
the following: (a) telic wulan in Gothic, wiellan/weallan in Old English, and
wellen in Dutch, (b) durative kochen in German and koken in Dutch, and
(c) telic sieden ‘boil, seethe’ in German and zieden in Dutch. The current
English telic boil is a loan via French. Old English transitive verbs involving
‘cooking, baking, and boiling’ are (a)brædan, gegearwian, seoþan, wiellan,
hyrstan, and bacan; cook comes into Middle English as a conversion from
the noun. The verbs in Table 4.4 are the broadest in meaning.
Nichols et al.’s table, as we saw, includes many aspectual types of verbs,
with arguments bearing varying semantic roles. The left-hand column in
Table 4.4 lists verbs with one argument (some of which we have seen in
chapter 3), which may be Agent or Theme; the middle column has two
arguments, one of which is a Theme and the other an Agent or Experiencer;
and the right-most column has two or three arguments, two of which are a
Causer and a Theme. Compatible with what I’ve argued before, unergatives
(A) have a predictable transitive (A and Th) counterpart and unaccusatives
have a predictable causative (C and Th). Unergatives can have a light verb
causative, e.g. gesettan for hlihhan.
Table 4.4  Verb pairs in Old English2
Intransitive Transitive Causative
hlihhan ‘laugh’ (A) behliehhan ‘laugh over’ gesettan to hlæhtre ‘set to
laughter’
cwelan/steorfan ‘die’ (Th) acwellan/asteorfan ‘kill’
sittan ‘sit’ (A/Th) settan ‘place’
etan ‘eat’ (A) etan ‘eat’ (a)fedan ‘feed’
— gefrignan/(ge)learnian
‘learn’
(ge)læran/(ge)tæcan ‘teach’
— seon ‘see’/locian ‘look’ sceawian ‘show’
abelgan ‘be angry’ (Th) abelgan ‘anger’
(ge)aforhtian ‘be afraid’ (Th) forhtian ‘fear’ afyrhtan ‘frighten’
hydan (refl) ‘hide’ (A) hydan ‘hide’
weallan ‘boil’ (Th) wiellan ‘boil’
brinnan ‘burn’ (Th) bærnan ‘burn’
brecan ‘break’ (Th) brecan ‘break’
openian ‘open’ (Th) openian ‘open’
adruwian ‘dry up’ (Th) dryg(e)an ‘dry’
— (ge)rihtan ‘restore, make
straight’
hangian ‘hang’ (Th) hon ‘hang’
tyrnan/turnian ‘turn’ (Th) tyrnan ‘turn’
feallan ‘fall’ (Th) fellan ‘fell’
82  Causatives and Transitives
Let‘s look at some examples and the justification for the forms in Table 4.4.
The verb hlihhan ‘to laugh’ in (4) is a verb of sound emission, which is
durative and counts as unergative. Its first cognate object also appears in
late Middle English, as in (5). It can be transitivized, though this is rare, as
mentioned in chapter 3 where (6) also appears, but not causativized, except
with an additional light verb, as (7) shows.
(4)	 Wa	 eow	 ðe	 nu	 hliehað,  forðam	 ge sculon eft wepan.
woe you REL now laughs   
because you shall after weep
‘Woe to you who now laugh because you will weep afterwards.’
(OED, Pastoral Care, Hatton 187, 19–20)
(5) Efter þire wordis A lowde laȝter he loȝe.
After these words a loud laughter he laughed
‘He laughed loudly after these words.’ (OED, Wars Alexander
(Ashm.) l. 96)
(6) Huru, ic swiðe ne þearf hinsiþ behlehhan.
Yes, I much NEG want death.ACC laugh
‘Indeed, I don’t want to laugh at his death.’ (Guthlac 87.1356–7)
(7) Þu asettest us . . . of hlæhtre
you set us . . .  of laughter
‘You make us laugh.’ (DOE, Roeder 1904, Regius Psalter, 43.14)
The verbs cwelan and steorfan are intransitive, change-of-state verbs and
clearly unaccusative in (8) and (9). The causative is sometimes cwellan, as
in (10) and (11), but is often indistinguishable in form from the intransitive.
(8)	 Swa	 swa	 fixas	 cwelað	 gif	 hi	 of  wætere beoð
so	 so	 fishes	 die	 if	 they	of	water	be
swa	 eac	 cwelð	 ælc  eorðlic lichama, gif he bið þære lyfte bedæled.
so	 also	 dies	 each  earthly body  when it is that air deprived
‘Just like fish die, if they are out of the water, so also dies the earthly
body, if it lacks air.’ (OED, Ælfric De Temporibus Anni (Cambr.
Gg.3.28) x. §8. 72)
(9)	 Menn  cwelað  hunger
‘Men die (of) hunger.’
(OED, Ælfric Homily: De Duodecim Abusivis, Corpus Cambr. 178,
Morris Old Eng. Homilies (1868)
Causatives and Transitives 83
(10) & hit ðonne cwelle beforan his eagum.
and it then kill before his eyes
‘And kill it before his eyes.’ (OED, Pastoral Care, Hatton, 343. 10)
(11) Nim ænne ram. . . Þonne ðu hine cwelst þu nymst his blod.
Take a ram . . . when you him kill you take his blood
‘Take a ram, kill it, and take his blood.’
(OED, Crawford, 1922 Heptateuch, Exodus xxix. 16)
The Old English use of steorfan is unaccusative in (12) and (13) and causa-
tive in (14) and (15).
(12)	 Annanias   and Saphiran . . .   mid færlicum deaðe ætforan.
Ananias    and Sapphira    with unexpected death before
ðam  apostolum  steorfende afeollon
the    
apostles    
dying    
fell
‘Ananias and Sapphira fell down dead unexpectedly.’ (OED, Ælfric
Homilies I. 398).
(13)	 Þet we ne steruen noht þer inne.
that we not die not there in
‘that we don’t die therein.’ (OED, c1175 Lambeth Hom. 71)
(14)	 Gif ic soð sprece, þonne sceal Dauides dohtor sweltan, stanum
astyrfed.
If I truth speak then shall David’s daughter die, through.stones killed
‘If I speak the truth, David’s daughter will die, killed by stones.’
(OED, Exeter Book, Crist I 192)
(15)	 Wæstmaseten þa þe ne sette fæder min . . . astærfed bið.
Planting then which not placed father mine killed be
‘Every plant that was not planted by my father will be killed.’
(OED, Rushworth Gosp. Matt. xv. 13)
In 1135, die is introduced through Old Norse and kill in 1225 from an
obscure source, according to the OED. As a result, the verbs cwelan and
steorfan narrow their meanings to ‘to suppress, extinguish’, as in quell an
uprising, a fire and ‘to perish, to deprive’, as in starve to death.
84  Causatives and Transitives
As to the representation of sittan, it has two meanings. I consider it an
unergative on the basis of (16); it can be transitivized, as in (17). Its causa-
tive counterpart in (18) is based on an unaccusative use because stars can’t
actively sit themselves.
(16)	 þær we moton seolfe sittan mid drihtne
there we must self sit with lord
‘There we ourselves must sit with the lord.’ (DOE, Junius Manuscript,
Satan, 588)
(17)	 7 gesætan suþewearde bryttene ærost.
and settled southward Brittain first
‘and settled Britain southward first.’ (Peterborough Chronicle, Preface
line 3)
(18) Hi gesettan eac þa þære sunnan and þam monan.
he place also then that.DAT sun and that moon
‘He put the sun and moon (in the skies).’
(DOE, Ælfric, De falsis diis, Pope, 686.166)
Because of these, I consider the intransitive sittan ‘sit’ as both unergative
and unaccusative, i.e. durative and telic.
Another verb from Table 4.4 is weallan ‘boil’. In 19), both unaccusative
and causative forms of the verb ‘to boil’ appear, as expected.
(19) do ofer fyr, awyl. Þonne hit wealle sing III pater noster ofer
put over fire, boil, when it boils, sing 3 pater nosters on it
‘Put over a fire and boil and, when it boils, sin three pater nosters to it.’
(DOE, Leechbook)
Bosworth and Toller also have an entry for geweallan ‘to boil, be hot’ and
refer to the interlinear examples of (20) and (21); the forms translate the
Latin fervescere ‘to boil’ and a third-person form of that verb ferveat.
(20) aque que ab igne fervescere videtur
vætres ðio fro fyre givalla bið gisene
water that by fire boil is seen
‘The water that is seen to boil through fire.’
(DOE, Durham Ritual Stevenson 1840, 101)
Causatives and Transitives 85
(21) ferveat in caritate et nihil extra te diligat
givalla in godeslvfv 7 noht butan ðec gilvfia
boils in love and nothing else you loves
‘boils in love and nothing else loves you.’
(DOE, Durham Ritual Stevenson 1840, 105)
Because (20) and (21) are glosses and the only instances of this verb, I have
not listed geweallan in the table.
With Table 4.4 in mind, let’s come back to the main question of this sec-
tion. What can we conclude from the verb pairs in terms of direction? Of the
18 Old English verb pairs, which I list here in Modern English for conveni-
ence, three are suppletive pairs, namely eat/feed, learn/teach, and see/show,
four pairs show lability, namely be angry/anger, hide, break, and open, and
eight are transitivizing, i.e. laugh/belaugh, die/kill, sit/set, fear/frighten, boil,
burn, turn, and fall/fell. One set is detransitivizing, namely dry up/dry, and
two are undetermined pairs, restore and hang.
If this is right, the basic valency tends towards intransitive in Old Eng-
lish, but that depends on Old English still having a productive causativizing
mechanism, an issue we turn to now.
3 Causativity
On the basis of Table 4.4, we concluded that Old English is causativizing/
transitivizing although, as I mentioned, McMillion and Nichols et al. come
to different conclusions. That said, labile verbs are already quite frequent.
As the language changes its morphological means to mark causativity and
transitivity, these come to be expressed by analytic means, namely by light
verbs, articles, and particles. Section 3.1 provides background on the alter-
nation between unaccusatives and causatives in Old English, where the
function of the affix -i is relatively transparent. After its loss, many verbs
end up labile, with a Theme-preserving lability, as is shown in section 3.2.
3.1  The Old Germanic Unaccusative/Causative Alternation
In this section, I examine the unaccusative/causative alternation in older
Germanic and Old English. This alternation results in a preservation
of the Theme of the unaccusative and an addition of the Causer. As
mentioned, there is a causativizing affix -j in early Germanic that is -i
in Old English. Depending on one’s point of view, this affix has either
disappeared from Old English or is still somewhat productive, as I have
assumed in Table 4.4. I first show how this affix works in Gothic and
then in Old English.
86  Causatives and Transitives
The weak -jan verbs in Gothic are derived from strong intransitive verbs,
as in (a), nouns, as in (b), or adjectives, as in (c) of Table 4.5. These alternat-
ing verbs are taken from van Hamel (1931: 186–7), Prokosch (1939: 153),
and Ottosson (2013: 362); see also Krahe and Meid (1967) and Suzuki
(1989: 178–80).
Although the verbs formed with -j generally have a causativizing function,
one needs to heed Bammesberger’s (1965: 143) cautionary words that “die
Bildungsweise von vielen der aufgeführten Verben keineswegs als gelöst zu
betrachten ist” [the wordformation of many of the verbs listed should not
be considered as solved]. From van Hamel (1931: 186–7) and Prokosch
(1939: 151–3) to Ottosson (2013), to name but a few, these verbs have gen-
erated a large amount of interest.
Let’s look at a few verbs in Old English in Table 4.6 that show causativi-
zation. This list is based on the references above and Bosworth and Toller
(1898) and Ottosson (2013: 373). As is also true in other languages, the
unaccusatives that causativize are mostly the externally caused, change-of-
state verbs, possibly the most telic.
There is quite some disagreement as to lability. Visser lists byrnan ‘burn’
as labile, as does Bosworth and Toller’s Dictionary. In my conclusions
regarding Table 4.4, I follow Bammesberger (1965: 38–9), who considers
the intransitive strong verb beornan and the transitive weak one bærnan
separate, i.e. not labile. The OED expresses the same views, namely:
The intransitive [is a] strong vb., Goth. brinnan, (brann, brunnum;
brunnans), ON. brinnan (later brennan), OS., OHG., MHG. brinnan,
OE. brinnan, by metathesis *birnan, bernan, beornan, (bran, barn,
born, bearn; burnon, bornen) . . .; and the derived factitive [is a] weak
vb., Goth. brannjan (brannida, branniþs), ON. brenna, OS., OHG.
brenn(i)an, (MHG. and Ger. brennen), OE. bærnan (by metathesis for
brennan), bærnde . . .
Table 4.5  Gothic causatives
a. ur-reisan ‘arise’ > ur-raisjan ‘make arise’
sliupan ‘walk silently’ > af-slaupjan ‘make slip away’
brinnan ‘burn’ intransitive > ga-brannjan ‘burn something’
sitan ‘sit’ > satjan ‘put’
drigkan ‘drink’ > drakjan ‘make drink’
ligan ‘lie’ > lagjan ‘lay’
-redan ‘prepare’ > rodjan ‘make think’
b. stains ‘stone’ > stainjan ‘stone’
doms ‘judgment’ > domjan ‘judge’
wens ‘hope’ > wenjan ‘hope’
c. laus ‘loose’ > lausjan ‘loosen’
hails ‘whole’ > hailjan ‘heal’
blinds ‘blind’ > gablindjan ‘blind’
Causatives and Transitives 87
The OED continues that beornan and bærnan
were still distinct in OE., but ran together early in the ME. period. ME.
had four types of the present stem, bern-, brin(n-, barn-, bren(n-, the
two former of which appear to represent the intr., and the third the
trans. OE. verb; bren(n- appears to be mainly the ON. brenna, but may
partly have originated by metathesis from bern-. Of the original strong
verb, the strong pa. tense does not appear later than Layamon, and
the distinction of transitive and intransitive was soon lost, the differ-
ent types being used indiscriminately as to sense, though with dialectal
preferences. Brenne, brent was the most common type in late ME., and
even down to the 16th c., when it was somewhat abruptly dispossessed
by burn, burnt, app. the descendant of the earlier bern-, birn-, though
the continuity is not very clearly made out, as, between the 13th and
16th c., this type is scarcely recorded in Sc. writers.
(OED s.v. burn)
Thus, in (22), there is a Theme and in (23) a Causer and a Theme; byrnan
in (23) shows evidence of an -i causativizer through the fronted vowel in
the stem.
(22)	a.	Gelærde unc se atola, se ðe æfre nu beorneð on bendum
	 told us the fiend, that that ever now burns in his bonds
	 ‘The fiend told us . . . who now burns forever in his bonds.’
	(DOE, Junius Manuscript, Satan, 411–12)
b.	Fyr in gesihðe his beorneð
	 fire in face his burns
	 ‘The fire burns in his face.’ (DOE, Vespasian Psalter, Ps 49.4)
Table 4.6  Derived causatives in Old English
belgan ‘be/become angry’ > abielgan ‘irritate’
bugan ‘bend‘ > bigan ‘bend’
dreopan ‘drop’ > drīepan ‘moisten’
feallan ‘fall/flow/die’ > fiellan ‘fell/defeat/destroy’
hweorfan ‘turn/go/die’ > hwierfan ‘turn/destroy’
meltan ‘melt, burn up, be digested’ > mieltan ‘melt/purge’
nesan ‘escape from/be saved’ > nerian ‘save/protect’
scrincan ‘shrink/wither’ > screncan ‘cause to shrink’
sigan ‘sink/fall/move’ > sægan ‘cause to sink/fell/destroy’
sincan ‘sink’ > sencan ‘sink, submerge/drown’
springan ‘jump/burst forth/spread’ > sprengan ‘scatter/burst’
88  Causatives and Transitives
c.	 se ðe in fyre geseted bið & beornan ne conn.
	 that that in fire seated is and burn not can
	 ‘who is seated in the fire and (yet) cannot burn.’
	 (DOE, Bede, Miller 82.24–5)
(23)	a.	swa . . . fyr wudu byrneð
	 such . . . fire wood burns
	 ‘As the fire burns the wood.’ (DOE, Paris Psalter, Ps 82.10)
b.	Se on iglonde Sicilia swefle byrneð
	 3MS on island Sicily sulphur burns
	 ‘It burns Sulphur on Sicily.’ (DOE, Meters of Boethius, 8.49–50)
But already by Old English, the derivation is no longer clear, e.g. many
instances of byrnan are unaccusative, as in (24a), and those of bernan are
causative, as in (24b).
(24)	a.	cwædon þæt he on þam beorge byrnan sceolde
	 said that he on that mountain burn should
	 ‘They said that he was going to burn on that hill.’
	(DOE, Exeter Book, Guthlac 191)
b.	Ðorh deg sunne ne berneð ðec ne mona ðorh naeht
	 through day sun not burns you nor moon through night
	 ‘The sun doesn’t burn you during the day not the moon at night.’
	(DOE, Vespasian Psalter, Ps 120.6)
Since the causative morphology is no longer very clear, there are also pre-
fixes, as in (25).
(25)	 þæt eall seo burh forbyrnan sceolde
that all the town burn should
‘that the entire town should be burned.’ (DOE, Gregory’s Dialogues,
Hecht 47.25)
These occur several (seven) times with forbyrnan but not with forbeornan in
the DOE. That means that for- is reinforcing the causative, which, though
marked, must be weak.
Lass (1994: 166) says that, by Old English, the function of -i as causativ-
izer is visible only in a small group of verbs, in line with Visser and Bosworth
Causatives and Transitives 89
and Toller (see the discussion above). As mentioned before, there is some
evidence left, as there is in present-day English between sit and set, lie and
lay, fall and fell.3
Thus, I agree with Ottosson (2013: 374) who concludes
that even though the j-causatives were less transparent in Old English, this
formation may still have been somewhat productive.
Leaving behind the problems about the extent to which Old English
has labile verbs, we’ll now turn to structural considerations. Take a look
at (26).
(26)	a.	abrahame	 feder	 iowrum	gifeode	 ðætte	gisege	dæg	minne
	 Abrahm	 fader	your	 rejoiced	that	 see	 day	 mine
	 &	 gisæh	 &	 gladade	 vel	 glæd	wæs
	 and	saw	 and	gladdened	and	glad	 was
	 ‘Abraham, your father, rejoiced to see my day and saw (it) and was
glad.’
	 (Rushworth Gospel, John 8.56; from Visser 1963: 99)
b.	Ac	 utan	 gladian	 georne	 God	 ælmihtigne
	 but	let-we	glad.make	eagerly	God	 almighty
	 ‘but let us make God the almighty glad eagerly.’
	(Wulfstan Homilies, Bethurum 229.1; from Visser 1963: 99)
A syntactic tree for the derivation of a causative by means of the affix -i in
Old English would look like (27). The verb gladian ‘make glad’ derives from
the adjective glad and, if this process is still transparent in Old English, the
adjective would move to V and to v.
90  Causatives and Transitives
3.2  The Change Towards Lability
In this subsection, I’ll provide some lists of verbs that are already labile in
Old English and then add what other means were added after.
Visser (1963: 98) lists 55 labile verbs, provided in Table 4.7. In Hermodsson
(1952: 196–207), there are further examples of labile verbs, referred to as ‘Verba
mit Doppelfunktion’, and 27 of these are also listed in Table 4.7. If this is more
or less correct, that brings the total of labile verbs in Old English to 82, which is
a tenth of what it is in Modern English, according to McMillion (2006).
These verbs are (labile) change of state, i.e. telic. One that isn’t is baðian
from Table 4.7. In Modern English, to bathe is unergative. It isn’t clear to
me that Old English baðian is because the dictionaries give ‘immerse’ and
‘moisten’ as translations, shown in (28) and (29): intransitive in (28) and
transitive in (29).
(28) Ond seldon in hatum baðum heo baðian wolde
and seldom in hot baths she immerse would
‘and she would seldom bathe in hot water.’
(Bede 4.19, Miller 318.15–16; from Visser 1963: 99)
Table 4.7  Old English labile verbs
Visser’s verbs:
abrecan ‘break’, abreoðan ‘unsettle/ruin’, acirran ‘turn’, acumen ‘come’, acweccan
‘shake’, acwician ‘quicken/revive’, ætiewan ‘show’, ætstandan ‘stand/remain’,
aslacian ‘become/make slack’, baðian ‘bathe’, blawan ‘blow’, blissian ‘be glad/
make glad’, brecan ‘break’, bregdan ‘move quickly/shake’, buan ‘live’, byrnan
‘burn’, cierran ‘turn’, clipian ‘speak, cry out’, cwanian ‘lament/mourn’, dragan
‘drag’, dwelian ‘go/lead astray’, dwellan ‘wander/lead astray’, eardian ‘live/inhabit’,
fleon ‘fly/flee’, fon ‘take’, geotan ‘pour’, gladian ‘be glad/rejoice’, healdan ‘hold/
proceed’, hefigan ‘become/make heavy’, hildan ‘lean/hold’, hlænan ‘lean/cause to
lean’, hweorfan/hwierfan ‘turn/change’, lacan ‘jump/play’, læstan ‘follow/endure’,
langian ‘long for/lengthen’, mieran ‘scatter/disturb’, miswendan ‘err/abuse’, ofergan
‘traverse’, oferfaran ‘traverse’, openian ‘open’, plegan ‘move’, sadian ‘weary’,
samnian ‘assemble/meet’, sargian ‘suffer/cause pain’, sarian ‘become painful/
feel sorry for’, scotian ‘move rapidly’, spyrian ‘go/pursue’, tolicgan ‘lie/separate’,
tostregdan ‘scatter’, tostencan ‘scatter’, tydran ‘produce’, þeostrian ‘darken’,
þringan ‘press (on)’, wanian ‘diminish’, wlitigian ‘become/make beautiful’.
Hermodsen’ s additional labile verbs
āðīestrian ‘darken’, ahnescian ‘become soft/make soft’, brædan ‘broaden/grow’,
dælan ‘divide’, gedieglan ‘hide’, drygan ‘become dry/dry’, hlīewan ‘become warm/
warm’, stillan ‘be still/quiet’, ābiterian ‘become bitter/make bitter’, cwician ‘come
to life/enliven’, gōdian ‘be better/make better’, heardian ‘harden/make hard’,
hefegian ‘become heavy/make heavy’, hlænian ‘become lean/make lean’, hluttrian
‘become clean/clean’, lytlian ‘lessen/decrease’, gemetgian ‘moderate oneself/
moderate’, micelian ‘become great/increase’, minsian ‘diminish’, nearwian ‘become
smaller/make smaller’, openian ‘open’, swīðian ‘become strong/strengthen’,
swutulian/sweotolian ‘become manifest/make clear’, ðiccian ‘thicken’, ðynnian
‘become thin/make thin’, yfelian ‘become bad/make bad’, windan/wendan ‘change’.
Causatives and Transitives 91
(29)	 and wolde seld-hwænne hire lice baðian butan to heahtidum
‘and would seldom immerse her body except at high-holidays.’
(Ælfric, Lives of Saints, Skeat 1881: 434.44–5; from Visser 1963: 99)
Even though we have to be cautious with some of the verbs in Tables 4.7
and 4.8, labile verbs already seem common in Old English, though not as
common as in Modern English. As mentioned, according to McMillion
(2006: 223–32), there are over 800 labile verbs in Modern English that
alternate between causative and unaccusative, although a few inherently
reflexive verbs, such as wash and stretch, are also included in his 800. The
list in (30) presents just a minor subset of labile verbs in Modern English.
(30)	 accumulate, begin, blow up, boil, break, burn, change, close, continue,
crack, crash, develop, dim, dissolve, dry, end, explode, freeze, grow,
hang, improve, increase, melt, move, open, pop, roast, roll, shake,
sink, split, spread, stabilize, turn.
The 800 Modern English ones contrast sharply with the 80 or so in Old
English, so there is a clear increase in lability from Old to Modern English.
This increase is not abrupt, as McMillion’s data for 110 verbs show, repro-
duced as Figure 4.1.
In addition to a steady increase in labile verbs, in Old English, possibly
when the causative morphology is no longer transparent, analytic causative
forms start to be used, e.g. the causative light verb do, as in Old and Middle
English (31) and (32), and Old English and Middle English make in (33)
and (34).
(31) a. Aswindan þu didest . . . sæwle his.
perish 2S did  . . .  soul his
‘You made his soul perish.’ (OED, c825 Vespasian Psalter xxxviii. 12)
Figure 4.1  Increase in labile verbs (McMillion 2006: 186)
92  Causatives and Transitives
b. Ða cwæð se cyning swa swa þu dydest minne broðer
then said that king so as 2S made my brother
his god forlætan . . . swa do ic eac þe forlætan þinne god.
his God leave so make I also 2S leave 2S God
‘Then said the king: like you made my brother leave his God . . .
so make I also you leave your God.’ (OED, Ælfric Homilies I, 31)
c. He on ðas eorðan ealle locað, deð hi for his egsan ealle beofian
He on that earth all sees, does them for his horror all tremble
‘He sees everything on earth and makes them tremble because of
this.’ (OED, Paris Psalter, 103.30)
(32) a. Þe barn sco dide drinc o þat wel.
the child she made drink of that well
‘She made the child drink from the well.’
(OED, Cursor Mundi, Cotton 3071)
b. She dud Þe childe drynke of Þe welle
She did the child drink of the well
‘She made the child drink of the well.’ (Cursor Mundi, Trinity 3071)
c. Ðis deuel . . . doð men hungren & hauen ðrist.
’This devil . . . makes men hunger and have thirst.’
(MED, Bestiary, Arundel 292, 428)
d. He dide ðone king to understanden þet he wolde . . .
‘He made the king understand that he wanted . . .’ (Peterborough
1128)
(33)	a.	þe	 his	 biggengan	 macaþ swa mihtige	 on gewinne.
	 REL	 his	 worshipers	 makes	so mighty	 in fight
	 ‘who makes his worshippers so mighty in fight.’
	 (DOE, Ælfric Lives of Saints, 388. 200–1)
b.	Se biscop . . . macode hit swyðe rice.
	 ‘The bishop . . . made it very strong.’
	(OED, Peterborough Chronicle, interpolation, anno 963)
Causatives and Transitives 93
c.	 Þe oferlifa on hete and on wete macað þene mon un-halne.
	 The excess of food and drink make then men unholy
	 ‘Excess of food and drink defile men.’
	 (OED, Ælfric’s Homily De Duodecim Abusivis, Lambeth 487)
(34)	a.	Ȝe ssule fecchen oure fader & maken him ful bliþe
	 ‘You should fetch our father and make him very happy.’
	 (MED, Iacob and Iosep, Napier)
b.	He scholen maken wroþe/Þe kyng and hyse gestes
	 ‘He shall make afraid the king and his guests.’ (MED, King Horn)
c.	 For to maken ous alle fre
	 ‘In order to free us all.’ (MED, Katerine Auchinl. fol. 21)
d.	Þatt	 follkess	 lac	 wass	 . . . 	 makedd fatt & nesshe.
	 that	 people’s	 gift	 was	 made fat and soft
	 ‘That people’s gift was made fat and soft.’
	 (MED, Ormulum, Burchfield 988–95)
Make and do are interchangeable at this point; e.g. in a manuscript other
than that of (33c), we see ‘do’ instead of ‘make’. That is quite different in
present-day English, where Tobin (1993: 30) argues that do is “used for
general activities” and make for “creation or construction”.
(35)	 Þe	 oferlifa	 on	 hete	 and	 on	 wete	 deð . . .
the	
excess	 of	food	
and	
of	drink	
does
‘The excess of food and drink make (men unholy).’
(OED, Corpus Cambr. 178)
As the causative suffix disappears, there are a number of replacements other
than the abovementioned light verbs, e.g. the -en suffix in Middle English
(36) on verbs like durken ‘darken’, which is presumably a continuation of the
more limited Old English -an in fæstnian ‘fasten’, and the zero morpheme on
verbs like blak ‘blacken’ in (36) as well. Both are native developments.
(36)	 Þe aier gun durken and to blak.
‘The air began to darken and to blacken.’ (OED, Cursor Mundi, Vesp.
24414)
94  Causatives and Transitives
This -en increases the unaccusative/causative lability even more because
it is very productive (e.g. awaken, blacken, brighten, broaden, cheapen,
coarsen, dampen, darken, deafen, deepen), as the list of verbs derived with
it in Table 2.8 of chapter 2 also shows. It is a new light v.
According to Skeat (1892: 275–76), the -en suffix reverses its meaning
from the Gothic detransitivizing na-verbal class (cf. lear-n, ow-n, daw-n,
drow-n) to English causativizer: the -n in full-n-an ‘to be filled’ is reanalyzed
as -en in blacken and darken ‘to make black/dark’.4
Skeat has a footnote
about this reversal of -n from decausativizer to causative being controversial.
Suzuki (1989: 67–70) shows that in Gothic the anticausative -n suffix is very
productive and either deverbal, as with aukan ‘increase’ to auknan ‘become
increased’ in (a), or deadjectival, as with fulls ‘full’ to fullnan ‘become full’
in (b) of Table 4.8. The data in this table are from van Hamel (1931: 187);
Suzuki (1989: 67–70); Kotin (1998: 68; 70), and Ottosson (2013: 334).
Whatever its origin, this -n suffix is used in a manner similar to -i and
introduced at a time when the function of -i is opaque. The difference is
that it is labile, so it is only used to render an unaccusative verb from an
adjectival stem but not to introduce the Causer, the way the -i did.
In Old English, there is another causative suffix -se (see Skeat 1892: 279),
as in clean-se, rin-se, clasp, lisp, and grasp, where the last three have under-
gone metathesis. The OED mentions that a verb such as clean replaces the
earlier clænsian ‘cleanse’ (OED s.v. clean). There is more on this verb in the
Appendix. A list of these zero-derivation adjective to verb pairs was given
in Table 2.8 of chapter 2; I’ll repeat some of the verbs from that table with
date of first occurrence in Table 4.9.
Whether they first appear as unaccusative or causative seems arbitrary,
but most appear towards the end of Middle English.
The syntactic tree for the -en and zero-affixes would be as in (27) and it
is arbitrary which affix is chosen. Bauer, Valera and Díaz-Negrillo (2010)
discuss the competition between these two and show that many had two
forms, e.g. white, whiten, glad, and gladden, but that typically the -en form
‘won out’ as long as the adjective was monosyllabic ending in an obstruent.
Table 4.8  The anticausative suffix -n in Gothic
a. bileiban ‘stay’ (bleiben) aflifnan ‘remain’
giutan ‘pour’ usgiutan ‘pour out’
bindan ‘bind’ andbundnan ‘become unbound’
b. hauhs ‘high’ ushauhnan ‘glorify’
weihs ‘holy’ weihnan ‘be hallowed’
hails ‘whole’ gahailnan ‘be healed’
c. gadauþjan ‘kill’ gadauþnan ‘die’
gablindjan ‘make blind’ afblindnan ‘become blind’
gadaubjan ‘make deaf’ afdaubnan ‘become deaf’
gabotjan ‘improve’ gabatnan ‘obtain advantage’
Causatives and Transitives 95
This is interesting counterevidence for the observation by Jespersen (1912),
Marchant (1960), and others that English word formation really favors
zero-derivation.
There are four other causative affixes, en-, -ize, -(i)fy, and -ate. These
came to English mostly through Latin and French loans that were them-
selves based on Greek and Latin and are not fully productive. Examples of
en- and -ize are given in (37) to (40); a few of these are labile. This suffix is
not derivationally causative in Modern English, however.
(37)	 a.	[These things] doe . . . exceedingly possesse and englad our hearts.
	 (OED, 1604 Supplic. Certaine Masse-priests §1)
b.	
That Vaiano Which engoldens and empurples in the grounds there
of my Redi. (OED, Hunt Redi’s Bacchus in Poet.Wks. 386)
(38)	a.	He was ybaptized þere.
	 ‘He was baptized there.’ (OED, Gloucester 86)
b.	to baptis þe prist
	 ‘to baptize the priest.’ (OED, Cursor Mundi 12897)
(39)	 enambush, encell, encentre, enchair, encoil, enfoil, enliven, engender
(from the OED)
(40)	advertise, baptize, christianize, computerize, customize, emphasize,
fertilize, generalize, hospitalize, legalize, legitimize, maximize, mes-
merize, mobilize, modernize, nasalize, neutralize, optimize, organize,
patronize, rationalize, romanticize, stabilize, subsidize, summarize,
symbolize, sympathize, systematize, utilize, visualize.
The suffixes -ate in (41) and -ify in (42) are also borrowed. The suffix
-ate was used to anglicize Latin participles, and verbs ending in -ify are
adoptions of French causative verbs ending in -fier.5
The latter correspond
to Latin verbs ending in facere ‘make’. It would be hard, however, to argue
Table 4.9 Zero-derivation
First occurrence as Unaccusative Causative
brown 1300 1570
clean 1708 1450
clear ‘fill with light’ 1374 1382
cool OE 1330
crisp (modern meaning) 1805 1658
dim 1300 OE
dirty 1864 1591
96  Causatives and Transitives
that these are systematically derived causatives. I am therefore assuming
that these are transitive verbs with no alternation between transitive and
intransitive verb or adjective or noun.
(41)	abdicate, accelerate, accumulate, activate, ameliorate, assassinate,
captivate, decapitate, decarbonate, decimate, defoliate, dehydrate,
desiccate, deteriorate, disintegrate, eradicate, escalate, estimate, evap-
orate, exculpate, expostulate, fabricate, germinate, indicate, integrate,
invalidate, liquidate, marinate, mitigate, nominate, operate, postulate,
relocate, separate, venerate.
(42)	 beatify, beautify, calcify, certify, clarify, codify, deify, dignify, diver-
sify, dulcify, edify, falsify, electrify, gentrify, horrify, humidify, identify,
intensify, justify, liquefy, modify, mollify, mortify, mummify, mystify,
nullify, ossify, qualify, ratify, satisfy, scarify, simplify, solidify, stultify,
transmogrify, unify, vilify.
Therefore, in Modern English, the native -en and zero-derivations enable
the unaccusative/causative alternation. The four borrowed affixes, en-, -ize,
-ate, and -ify, indicate causative verbs but are less productive. All of these
are the successors of the Germanic -j pattern.
In conclusion so far, Germanic and Old English have verbal -j/-i affixes
indicating a change in valency. It adds a Causer to the argument set of a telic
verb. These affixes are lost in early Middle English and, although a few new
morphemes are added, unaccusative verbs and adjectives become increas-
ingly labile in English, as summarized in Figure 4.2.
Changes affecting the transitive verbs will be discussed in the next section.
4 Transitivity
In this section, I show some of the changes affecting durative verbs. In
4.1, I indicate how transitivity and perfective aspect are marked morpho-
logically in Old English and, in section 4.2, I indicate that this morphol-
ogy is lost and that this results in an increase in transitive verbs. In 4.3,
Figure 4.2  Increase in unaccusative-causative lability
Causatives and Transitives 97
I discuss some changes in the marking of reflexives and how that impacts
transitivity.
4.1  Transitive Marking
As has been argued since at least Streitberg (1891), Germanic ge- is a resul-
tative, transitivizing, or perfectivizing prefix. This ambiguity continues to
some extent into Old English. As early as Lenz (1886) and Lorz (1908),
there are detailed analyses of verbs with and without ge- and their aspect in
Beowulf and other texts. As we’ll see in chapter 9, it is no coincidence that
resultative and perfective are expressed by the same morpheme because they
form links in a Perfective Cycle.
Pairs showing the transitive nature of the ge-prefix are given in Table 4.10.
Note that Lindemann (1965: 67) and Broz (2011: 162) doubt this transitiv-
izing role. My take on these verb pairs is that, as with the causative -i, there
is some evidence in Old English that these affixes are alive because of the
forms in this table.
In chapter 2, I discussed accomplishment verbs, which are durative but
coerced into telic, and that is what the resultative ge-prefix does in these
instances.
Some examples of the intransitive winnan are given in (43). Bosworth
and Toller provide its meaning as ‘struggle, work, win’, but many times it is
ambiguous between these without context.
(43)	a.	Uesoges Egypta cyning wæs winnende of suðdæle Asiam
	 ‘Vesoges, Egypt’s king, was fighting in the southern part of Asia.’
	(Bately, Orosius 28.22)
b.	þæt swa oferwlenced cyning sceolde winnan on swa earm folc
	 ‘that such a rich king should wage war on such a poor people.’
	(Bately, Orosius 29.3)
Table 4.10  Transitivizing alternations involving ge- in Old English
ærnan ‘to run’ > geærnan ‘to reach’
feran ‘to go’ > geferan ‘to reach’
gan ‘to go’ > gegan ‘to overrun, subdue’
hyran ‘to hear’ > gehyran ‘to learn about’
restan ‘to rest’ > gerestan ‘to give rest’
rowan ‘to row’ > gerowan ‘to reach by rowing’
winnan ‘to labor, toil’ > gewinnan ‘to gain, conquer’
wadan ‘to go’ > gewadan ‘to traverse’
98  Causatives and Transitives
The transitive counterpart can be with the ge-prefix, i.e. gewinnan in (44ab),
but also without the ge-, as in (44c). Note also gemakian in (44a).
(44) a. Þa he hine swa hraðe gewinnan ne mihte,
then he it so quickly win not could
he let þærtoforan castelas gemakian
he let there.before castles make
‘when he couldn’t win it so quickly, he had castles built before it,’
(DOE, Peterborough Chronicle, anno 1102)
b. Þonan ænig ne mæg, firendædumfah, frið gewinnan
thence any not may evil.deeds refuge gain
‘No one marked by evil deeds will be able to gain refuge from there.’
(DOE, Exeter Book, Christ 999–1002)
c. “Hwæt sceal ic winnan” cwæð he
‘ “What shall I gain?” spoke he.’ (DOE, Junius, Genesis 278)
There are other transitives in Old English that are not overtly marked for
resultativity. Examples are given in (45) and (46).
(45)	 hig	 etaþ	 ða	 hlafas	 on	 þam	 windle
they	eat	 those	loaves	in	 that	 basket
‘They are eating the loaves in the basket.’
(DOE, Exodus 29.32, Crawford edition)
(46)	 Se	 magoræswa	 mægðe	 sinre	 domas	 sægde
That	chief	 of.family	his	 laws	 said
‘The leader of his tribe provided laws.’ (DOE, Genesis 1624)
The most recent corpus study, McFadden (2011), sees some connection
between the appearance of ge- and telicity. He finds low frequency of ge-
with statives, pre-modals, ‘be’, and ‘have’, as expected (though very high
with seon ‘see’, which is puzzling). McFadden finds that 24.4% of verbs
have ge- but most appear on past participles, which fits with a meaning of
perfectivity as well as resultativity.
In addition to ge-, other prefixes transitivize or perfectivize. Streitberg
(1891), Hiltunen (1983), Elenbaas (2007), Broz (2011), and numerous
Causatives and Transitives 99
others have recognized this. A very partial list is given in Table 4.11. Many
of these prefixes still show their origin as adverbs.
Again most of these transitive verbs are accomplishments. In keeping with
the model sketched in chapter 2, the inner aspect of the root, e.g. the first
part of swelg-an [swallow-INF] and fer-an [go-INF], is durative. The pre-
fixes here have a lexical meaning but at one point may grammaticalize into
a more grammatical meaning. When lexical, they may be adverbs marking
a result, e.g. for- in (47bc) and ge- in (48). The verbs in (47) and (48) are
durative intransitives without the prefixes in (47a) and (48a) but are telic
transitives with them. A tree for one of these, i.e. (47b), is given in (49).
(47) a. se aglæca . . . synsnædum swealh
that creature . . . huge.morsels gorged
‘The creature gorged on huge morsels.’ (Beowulf 739–43)
b. leofes mannes lic eall forswealg.
dear man’s body all up.swallowed
‘He swallowed up the entire body.’ (Beowulf 2080)
c. þone biscopdom forletan sceolde
that diocese leave should
‘should leave that diocese.’ (Life of St Chad, Vleeskruyer edition 162)
(48)	a.	ða ferdon þa Pihtas & geferdon þis land norþanweard
	 Then went the Picts and entered this land northward
	 ‘Then went the Picts and conquered the land northward.’
	(Peterborough Chronicle Preface line 12)
Table 4.11 
Old English verbs with transitive or perfective prefixes (from Brinton
1988: 202–3).
aswapan ‘sweep off, clean’
bedrincan ‘absorb’ belucan ‘enclose’
forswelgan ‘swallow up’ formeltan ‘melt away’
forðbringan ‘produce’ forðsiþian ‘go forth, die’
fulfremman ‘fulfill’ fullbetan ‘satisfy’
oflætan ‘give up’ oftredan ‘tread down’
oferhelian ‘conceal’ ofergan ‘overrun’
tobeatan ‘beat apart’ tosyndrian ‘separate’
þurhtrymman ‘corroborate’ þurhdreogan ‘carry through’
ymbhringan ‘surround’ ymbhycgan ‘consider’
100  Causatives and Transitives
b.	Swa sceal geong guma gode gewyrcean
	 So shall young man good-DAT accomplish
	
‘So should a young man accomplish through good works.’
(Beowulf 20)
Many of the verbs in Table 4.10 lose the transitivizing prefix and end up
being replaced by French loans (e.g. bedrincan and forðbringan are now
‘absorb’ and ‘produce’, respectively), or by phrasal verbs (e.g. adruwian
and þurhdreogan are now ‘dry up’ and ‘carry through’, respectively). This
is dealt with in detail in Brinton (1988: 215–31). The function of ge- also
changes before it disappears. Brinton (1988: 202 ff.) argues that Old English
verbal prefixes indicate telicity, but that ge- has become “seriously over-
extended” (p. 212) by Middle English. It ends up functioning as a perfect
marker indicating present relevance, even with intransitives before it is lost.
One can see the ge-participle as going through the stages that Bybee,
Perkins and Pagliuca (1994: 105) identify, namely resultative to anterior
(or perfect) and past being replaced by have with participle, which marked
resultative before it marked anterior. In Germanic languages other than
English, have and participle now mark the simple past. In chapter 9, I will
consider this Perfective Cycle more carefully.
4.2  Further Loss of Outer Aspect
Grammatical aspect helps clarify the inner aspectual character of a verb. As
we saw in chapter 2, transitive verbs in Modern English are often perfective
Causatives and Transitives 101
with definite objects. Although the inner aspect doesn’t change, e.g. telic
verbs remain telic and durative ones durative, there are many changes
regarding the grammatical object role between Old and Middle English: the
different object cases are lost and new definiteness markers appear in the
form of articles, all by late Old English. Abraham (1997b), Philippi (1997),
van Gelderen (2011a), and Kiparsky (1998), among others, have argued for
a connection between case, definiteness, and aspect. Perfective aspect, accu-
sative and genitive case, and definiteness in Old English are marked through
an ASP(ect) category. Dative and genitive object, considered peripheral by
Visser, for instance, come to be marked as regular objects. This is a big part
of what Visser considers the increase in transitivity.
Case in Old English is involved in aspectual and definiteness marking.
Thus, the genitive case is used when the object is partially affected, i.e. when
the measure of the involvement of the object is relevant (cf. Allen 2005:
240), as in (50), with verbs of deprivation, or of mental action, as in (51).
Limit of involvement translates into an absence of definiteness.
(50) Đar com eft ongean Swegen eorl to Eadwerde cinge
and gyrnde
There came back again Swegen earl to Edward king
and craved to
him land-es þæt he mihte hine on afedan.
of him land-GEN that he might it on sustain
‘Then Swegen came back again to King Edward and wanted land
from him so that he’d be able to sustain himself.’ (Chronicle D, anno
1049.9)
(51)	 þe	 cyng . . . 	 gyrnde	 heora	 fultum-es
the	 king . . . 	 desired	 their	 support-GEN
‘The king wanted some of their support.’ (Peterborough Chronicle
1087.37–9)
The accusative is used in signaling affectedness, as in (52).
(52)	 se helend þa witende þohtas heora cweþ to heom. . .
the healer then knowing thoughts their said to them
‘The Savior, knowing their thoughts, said to them. . .’
(Rushworth Glosses, Matthew 12.25)
The alternation between genitive (or partitive) and accusative is not uncom-
mon across languages and indicates a connection between measure and
102  Causatives and Transitives
affectedness of the object, i.e. definiteness, and aspect. See also Jamison
(1976) and Dahl (2009).
The genitive case of the object disappears in English in the 12th century.
Bungenstab (1933) and Mitchell (1985) list over 200 verbs that have geni-
tive objects in Old English; very few are left in Middle English. Allen (2005:
239–40) says that the loss of the genitive object is “difficult to attribute . . .
to the phonological changes” or to a loss of genitives in general. She partly
attributes it to the “loss of a coherent and distinctive meaning of the genitive
case for objects”.
Special pronominal case distinguishing dative and accusative is also lost
in this period, as (53) shows, another indication that verbs lose their inher-
ent case assigning abilities.
(53)	a.	7 to Corinee hine sende
	 ‘and sent him to Corineus.’ (Layamon, Caligula 1209)
b.	and to Corineus him sende. (Layamon, Otho 1209)
Around the same time as inherent case on objects is lost, aspectual pre-
fixes on verbs disappear, and specificity/definiteness markings on nouns
increase, having grammaticalized from deictic markers. I will first focus on
the definiteness markers. Leiss (2000) suggests for Old High German that
the explosion of articles first occurs in genitives, as a compensation for the
loss of case. I believe that, in late Old English, the article appears in all posi-
tions as a compensation for the loss of inherent case. The introduction of
articles can be seen in the First Continuation of the Peterborough Chronicle
as Allen (1995: 172) also notes. In this 12th-century text, the distal (mas-
culine nominative) demonstrative pronoun se, as in Old English (54a), is
reanalyzed as the definite article, as in (54b).6
(54)	a.	Se heora cyning ongan ða singan
	 that their king began then sing
	 ‘That king of theirs began to sing.’ (Orosius 35.14–15)
b.	Ic Wulfere gife to dæi Sancte Petre 7 þone abbode Saxulf 7
	 I Wulfhere give today St. Peter and the abbot Saxulf and
	 þa munecas of þe mynstre þas landes 7 þas wateres
	 the monks of the abbey these lands and these waters
	
‘I, Wulfhere, am giving today to St. Peter and Abbot Saxulf and the
monks of the abbey these lands and waters.’ (Peterborough Chroni-
cle anno 656:40)
Causatives and Transitives 103
The evidence for the reanalysis is first that the earlier demonstrative se and
its variants now need to be followed by a nominal (Wood 2003: 69); before-
hand this form had been optionally followed by a noun. Secondly, most
nouns are now preceded by a demonstrative or article whereas earlier they
could appear on their own.
The introduction of articles occurs in all positions, as the distribution
given in Table 4.12 for the entries for the years 1137 and 1140, from the
Final Continuation, shows. Since all is a frequent pre-determiner, as in (55)
and (56), I list it separately in the table.
The use of al(le) is the most frequent in object position and may help con-
vey the degree of affectedness that is lost when the inherent case (accusative
or genitive) is lost. The first examples of the definite article use come from
the Peterborough Chronicle and the slightly later Ormulum.
(55)	 I ne can ne i ne mai tellen alle þe wunder ne alle þe pines ðæt hi diden
	 I not can not I not may tell all the wonders not all the suffering that
they caused
	 ‘I don’t know nor can I tell all the enormities nor all the suffering they
caused.’
	(Peterborough Chronicle anno 1137)
(56)	 & gaddresst swa þe clene corn All fra þe chaff togeddre
	 and gatherst so the clean wheat all from the chaff together
	 ‘and so you gather the clean wheat from the chaff.’
	(Ormulum 1484–5)
So far, I have shown that the genitive and accusative alternation is used
for partial affectedness and definiteness respectively in Old English. Pre-
fixes also mark transitivity/perfectivity. This distinction is lost in early Mid-
dle English. In addition, articles are introduced. The changes from Old to
Middle English are shown in (57a) to (57b), using the Old English (44a),
repeated as (58), and the Middle English (56) as examples.
Table 4.12 
The definite article the in the Peterborough Chronicle for the years 1137
and 1140
		 þe	 al(le) þe	 te	 the	 al(le) the	 al/micel/mare
Subject	 23	 1	 11	 2	 –	 1
Object	 15	 7	 6	 –	 1	 1
PObject	 27	 2	 3	 5	 –	 2
		
Total	 65	10	 20	7	 1	 4
104  Causatives and Transitives
(58)	 (he) . . .	 castelas	 gemakian
(he)	 castles	make
‘to make castles.’
The changes that occur involve a loss of the specific case, “assigned” by
[i-measure], and a change of the function of the marker ge- connected with
these. This all occurs in late Old English, e.g. in the last part of the Peterbor-
ough Chronicle. Thus, a reanalysis takes place of the features connected with
various categories. I will examine one more possibly Theme-affecting change.
4.3  Reflexive Objects
Mustanoja (1960: 429–30) sees a tendency whereby transitive verbs develop
into intransitives and attributes that to “the inherent aversion of English
speakers to the reflexive form”. This aversion would lead to a loss of tran-
sitivity. Others, earlier and later, e.g. König and Siemund (2000) and Roh-
denburg (2009), have noted the same phenomenon, but have shown that
this doesn’t result in a loss of transitivity. In this section, I review some of
the changes that take place and agree that it is hard to speak of a loss of
reflexives and hence a loss of transitivity.
As is well-known, Old English does not mark reflexives overtly, as (59)
to (61) show, but through the personal pronoun (see van Gelderen 2000).
(59) Begunnon hi to cidenne
began them to chide
‘They began to chide themselves.’ (DOE, Ælfric, Homilies II, 158.13,
Thorpe)
Causatives and Transitives 105
(60) þæt we us gehydan mægon
that we us hide may
‘that we can hide ourselves.’ (DOE, Junius Manuscript, Satan 100)
(61) him bebeorgan ne con
(he) him protect not can
‘He could not protect himself.’ (Beowulf 1746)
In Old and early Middle English, specially marked reflexives start to appear,
as in (62) to (64).
(62) þæt he hyne sylfne gewræc
that he him-ACC self-ACC avenged
‘He avenged himself.’ (Beowulf 2875)
(63) Ac ic þa sona eft me selfum andwyrde
But I then soon after me-DAT self-DAT answered
‘But I soon thereafter answered myself.’
(Pastoral Care, Cotton, 4.21–2, Sweet)
(64)	 he heo lette nemnen; efter him-seoluan
he it  let name after himself
‘and had it named after himself.’ (Layamon, Brut, Caligula 1454)
Ogura (1989: 5–6, 71ff), Peitsara (1997), and König and Vezzosi
(2004), to name but a few, have argued that verbs expressing typi-
cally self-directed activities show less marking by reflexive objects and
those expressing other-directed activities have more. Figure 4.3 shows
what is meant to be a continuum. In Old English, for instance, other-
directed verbs are more likely to have optional self when the action
is not other-directed. But it is often not clear if a verb is more self- or
other-directed.
Moreover, this rule is not absolute. For instance, the self-directed verb (ge)
scamian ‘shame’ occurs without object, with a simple pronominal object, as
well as with a pronoun followed by self.
After Middle English, a period of relatively a lot of reflexive marking,
the pronouns disappear, as shown by e.g. Eitelmann (2012) and Roh-
denburg (2009), who says that “the reduction of overtly reflexive uses
is continuing unabated and that it is AmE that has been implementing
106  Causatives and Transitives
these changes faster and more extensively than BrE” (Rohdenburg
2009: 166).
Thus, in Modern English, there is again a choice between reflexive and
no reflexive, but the same indeterminacy as in Old English occurs; e.g. wash
is other-directed (four times more other-directed than self-directed in 100
arbitrary hits from the BNC), but most self-directed verbs, as in (65), are
not marked by a pronoun.
(65)	 It is our custom to bathe in the streams near my home very often and
wash always before eating. (BNC-C85 1859)
One could think of the loss of the reflexive as a change from pronominal
reflexive marking to verbal, as proposed in Faltz (1985, 2008) and repre-
sented as (66a). Once the reflexive pronoun disappears, a new one may
arise, as shown in (66b), where I show the stages the various languages are
in, not that Gothic ‘turns into’ Old Norse.
(66)	 a.	Pronoun	 > clitic	 > zero
	 nominal	verbal
	 Gothic	 Old Norse	 Old English
b.	 > pronoun	 >	 . . .
		 nominal
		 Middle English
Although changes in reflexive marking are potentially relevant to the valency
and aspect (see e.g. Cennamo 2010), the verbs discussed above continue to
have the option of reflexive or zero so nothing changes regarding their tran-
sitive nature.
Figure 4.3  Type of reflexive verb
Causatives and Transitives 107
5  Changes in the vP
Germanic has a set of valency markers indicative of transitives, e.g. through
verbal prefixes, such as ge-, and causatives, e.g. through the suffix -i. Some
of these markers are still visible in Old English, though Modern English has
lost these markers. Diachronically, nothing happens in terms of the struc-
ture of the syntactic tree: there continue to be light verbs, and unaccusative
verbs continue to move to v to derive causatives, even after -i is lost. One
change to the structure is that structural case is introduced, probably via v
and not via ASP.
Structure (67) represents the unergative verb in (69) and (68) represents
the unaccusative verb in (70), repeated from chapter 3.
(69) fela wildeora þe eallne winter slapað
many wild.animals REL all winter sleep
‘Many wild animals who sleep in winter.’ (DOE, Homilies, Clemoes,
533.5)
(70) sio roeðnis ðæs stormes wæs blinnende
the fierceness that storm was ceasing
‘The fierceness of the storm was diminishing.’ (DOE, Bede, 386.11)
Unergatives are denominal and do not project a specifier to the VP and
hence Themes are not present (except as cognate or hyponomous objects)
but an Agent is crucial, as in (67). Unaccusatives are verbs that license a
Theme, as in (68), and optionally a Result. Causative verbs build on unac-
cusative verbs or adjectives. Thus, (71) represents the causative in (26b),
repeated here as (73), and (72) provides a structure for the transitive in (74).
108  Causatives and Transitives
(73)	Ac utan glad-i-an georne God ælmihtigne
but let-we glad-CAUS-INF eagerly God almighty
‘but let us make God the almighty glad eagerly.’
(Wulfstan Homilies; Visser 1963: 99, Bethurum edition 229.1)
(74) siþðan him scyppend forscrifen hæfde
since him creator outlawed had
‘Since the creator had outlawed him.’ (Beowulf 106)
In (71), the adjective in the (Result) AP moves to the V and a Theme in
the specifier is licensed. An additional morpheme is needed to license the
Agent or Causer since the V already licenses a Theme (God). The -i mor-
pheme in v is responsible for the addition of a Causer theta-role. In (72), a
prefix appears that derives from an adverb and which I argue has interpret-
able measure and aspect features. This ASP licenses the additional Theme
argument.
6 Acquisition
In the previous chapter, acquisition data from three children show that they
use unergatives and unaccusatives from their first words on and that their
aspectual morphology suggests that they treat unergatives as durative and
unaccusatives as telic. In this section, I turn to the acquisition of causatives
and transitives. The acquisition of causatives has been studied extensively,
e.g. Bowerman (1974, 1982), Pinker (1989), Tomasello (1992). I’ll review
Causatives and Transitives 109
some of their data that are relevant to causatives and then add new data for
transitives.
Causatives are unaccusatives with an added Causer but not all unaccusa-
tives participate in the alternation and, therefore, overgeneralizations fre-
quently occur with unaccusatives that don’t causativize, as in (75) to (77).
(75)	 How come you had a little trouble going it?	(Christy 3:5, Bowerman
1974)
(76)	Kendall fall that toy (Kendall 2;3, Bowerman 1982)
(77)	Luis died my doll. (data from Anne Walton-Ramirez)
This tells us that the specific lexical restriction as to which verbs license an
additional, causative v has to be learned: change of state verbs are more
likely to do so than change of location verbs.
Emission verbs are uncontrolled processes and therefore durative but
without a clear Agent. These are used as causatives, as in (78) to (80), which
is not surprising given their intermediate position between unaccusatives
and unergatives in Table 2.7.
(78)	Carrie bleeded a tree.	 (Eva 3;3, Bowerman 1982)
(79)	 It always sweats me.	 (Christy 4;3, Bowerman 1982)
(80)	 This is aching my legs.	 (Eva 5;3, Bowerman 1982)
As for transitives, i.e. structurally durative unergatives with an added
Theme, these occur very early and there are all adult-like uses. If we look
back at Table 3.7 and in (78) and (79) of chapter 3, we see an adult-like use
of transitives, such as eat, read, and write. The verb eat is among the earliest
instances of words, although it is a repetition as (81) shows.
(81)	 *MOT:	 wouja [would you] like something to eat?
*CHI:	 eat. (Naima, 0;11.28)
Examples of durative meanings/transitives from Eve are given in (82)
and (83).
(82)	 *CHI:	 dolly celery.
	 *CHI:	doll eat.
	 *CHI:	 the [?] dolly.
	 *CHI:	doll eat celery. (Eve, 1;6)
(83)	*CHI:	 Eve writing table. (Eve, 1;6)
110  Causatives and Transitives
The transitive verb occurs regularly without the Theme, as (83) shows,
which is expected of a durative that emphasizes the higher regions of the vP.
Bowerman (1982: 17) shows that overgeneralizations, as in (75) to (77),
also occur with activity verbs. She lists 15 instances that are “unlikely or
impossible on semantic grounds” and these include (84) and (85).
(84)	you cried her	 (Eva 5;3, Bowerman 1982)
(85)	 I wanna swim that	 (Eva 2;1, Bowerman 1982)
In (84) and (85), the verbs cry and swim are used as ‘make squeal’ and
‘make wiggle’ and these meanings could be uncontrolled process as well.
Clear counterexamples to my prediction of aspectual stability occur in
(86), where the child uses the activity verb as if it is a change-of-state verb,
possibly because she hasn’t learned the word feed.
(86)	don’t eat her yet	 (Christy 3;8, Bowerman 1982)
On the basis of (84) to (86), Pinker (1989: 340) concludes that “children
clearly violate adult narrow-range semantic constraints” but that this is due
to “incorrect verb meanings” (1989: 348).
There are more complex sentences with transitives in some later uses from
Abe and Sarah. Abe’s (87) indicates that he knows how to add a perfective
through to the durative eating and (88) shows a struggle with the accom-
plishment verb find.
(87)	 *CHI:	 I’m through eating! (Abe, 2;6.04)
(88)	 *CHI:	 uhhuh (.) I have a cookies and I find to me I can’t find it I can’t
find it I not can find it. (Abe, 2;5.26)
The struggle with the Theme is expected if Abe sees the verb find as more
Agent-oriented due to its aspect.
What we see in (89) is that eat is also used as a noun, expected if it starts
out as a Theme and incorporates, which was argued in chapter 2. In (90),
the telic nature can be added by the adverbs all and up.
(89)	 a.	*CHI:	 I want my eat (Sarah, 3:9.18)
b.	*CHI:	 another eating (Sarah, 4;2.28)
(90)	 a.	*CHI:	 I eat it all up (Sarah, 3;8.20)
b.	*CHI:	 you eat me up (Sarah, 5;1.06)
In short, the development of causative verbs shows an overgeneraliza-
tion to durative verbs. Pinker says this is due to non-adult verb meanings.
Causatives and Transitives 111
Figure 4.4  Increases in lability
Transitives are typically adult-like from early on. Here it is the lower part of
the vP that children experiment with, namely the Theme.
7 Conclusion
In this chapter, I have examined how Old English marks (basic) valency.
Germanic is typically seen to have transitive verbs as basic and to be detran-
sitivizing. However, for one of the Germanic languages, Modern English, it
is much harder to determine a basic valency because of the extensive num-
bers of labile verbs. I have therefore explored the valency in Old English
and the conclusion, reached in e.g. Ottosson (2013) as well, is that Old
English already has quite a number of labile verbs although the causative
affix remains somewhat productive. I also concur with Plank and Lahiri
(2009) that, if there is a basic valency in Germanic, it is intransitive and this
includes Old English.
In Old English a suffix derives causatives by adding a Causer to the Theme
of the unaccusative verb and a prefix derives transitives from unergatives.
In typological terms, that makes the basic valency of Germanic intransitive.
By late Old English, however, these affixes are no longer transparent to the
learner and verbs are reanalyzed as labile, with lability for the unaccusative-
causative alternation as well as lability for the intransitive-transitive one.
Figure 4.4 visualizes the reasons behind these increases of lability, building
on Figure 4.2.
I also provide a structural account for the changes in the valency of verbs.
If roots are connected to a basic aspect and if this aspect determines their
aspect and theta-roles, this provides a good account of the unaccusative-
causative alternation: unaccusatives are either deadjectival, i.e. derived from
the Result, or verbal (unaccusative). If nothing is added, they remain that.
If a light v is added, a Causer is added, and the verb is causative. Durative
112  Causatives and Transitives
unergatives can be augmented into transitives as well. Although the basic
syntactic tree remains the same in the history of English, there are minor
changes in the v and ASP and which lexical elements occupy them.
Data from overgeneralization in the acquisition of causatives is incon-
clusive. Although all intransitives are made into causatives, this may have
to do with not knowing the difference between lexical and analytic causa-
tives. The developmental data of transitives shows experimentation with
the Theme, which is expected if the higher part of the vP is connected to the
underlying durative aspect.
In section 3.2, I consider the verb clean(se) as telic. Levin and Rappaport
Hovav (2014) point out that the verb clean is ambiguous between a manner
reading, as in (91), and a result reading, as in (92).
(91)	 He was cleaning after he cooked (but it remained dirty).
(92)	 The machine cleaned the carpet beautifully.
Note that in (91), there is just an Agent, not a Theme, and an -ing, but in
(92), there is a Causer and Theme. With Levin and Rappaport Hovav, I will
assume that some verbs have two basic aspects, a durative and telic one.
The former has an Agent and optional Theme and the latter a Causer and
Theme. Let’s see if the history of English sheds any light on this topic.
Old English has a verb clænsian ‘make clean’ that Modern English still
retains as cleanse but which has narrowed its meaning to ‘make completely
clean’. The verb clean is a relatively recent addition, according to the OED.
Apart from a mention in a lexicon from the 1450s, the earliest examples are
given in (93) and these are all telic.
(93)	 a.	
The English Frigats are now so well Fitted and Cleaned, that none
of the Algerines they meet with, escape them. (OED, 1681, London
Gaz. No. 1666/2)
b.	
We scrubb’d and clean’d our Men of War. (OED, 1697, W. Damp-
ier New Voy. around World vi. 138)
Looking in COHA, the numbers of the verb clean increase dramatically. In
the period from 1810 to 1840, there are 59 instances of the verb clean and
they are all telic; from 2000 to 2010, there are over 10 times as many such
verbs (750) but most remain telic.
Looking at one case of L1 acquisition, Eve’s files (Brown 1973) show
seven instances of the verb clean and they are all telic, as in I clean it off,
Appendix
114  Causatives and Transitives
you clean it off, and we better clean them. So the telic meaning seems pretty
basic.
In short, clean is a verb that is originally a telic verb, due to its adjectival
origin, but which has developed a manner meaning in addition to its origi-
nal result one.
Notes
1	Based on Haspelmath (1993: 100), Nichols et al. and Comrie use .5 to indicate
that with certain verbs there is more than one possible set.
2	I have come up with the table using Bosworth and Toller (1898), the OED, Buck
(1949), the Historical Thesaurus of the OED (2009), Ottosson (2013), and the
Dictionary of Old English (DOE) electronic texts.
3	Mair Parry (p.c.) reports on speakers using only one of these though, e.g. ‘when
you lay down’, ‘sit yourself’, and ‘that verb raises’. This means the distinction may
soon be lost completely. Of 60 native speaker students (in an undergraduate gram-
mar class of mine), only two gave prescriptively correct answers on ten sentences
with forms of lie and lay.
4	 Skeat (1892: 276) also mentions glist-en, lik-en, list-en, and op-en but these seem
not currently productive.
5	According to the OED, it became the “recognized method of englishing a Latin
verb” to take the Latin participle as the present stem in English. Thus, fascinate,
concatenate, asseverate, venerate, and hundreds of others were formed without an
intermediate adjective.
6	 This reanalysis is widely assumed in the literature and a review appears in McColl
Millar (2000).
1 Introduction
Copula verbs are centered around a Theme argument and can vary in aspec-
tual character. English has a very sizable inventory of copula verbs, which
can be divided into those of duration (remain and stay), change of state
(become and fall), and mood (seem and appear). Most copulas have been
reanalyzed from unaccusatives and have a Theme. Although copulas revolve
around a Theme that would fit with an inner aspect of telic or stative, there
are copulas of all three aspectual kinds. I will show that the aspect of the
copula is determined by Sorace’s (2000) continuum, with telic as the most
unaccusative moving towards durative for less unaccusative verbs.
The reanalysis of these unaccusatives as copulas is due to their occurrence
in an ambiguous context. For instance, intransitives are frequently modi-
fied by adverbs that may not (or no longer) be morphologically marked as
adverbs and therefore reinterpreted as copulas with adjective complements.
The transitives that reanalyze are also ambiguous at one stage in that they
are frequently middles. The changes in these verb types suggest that the
Theme role stays stable but that there are some changes in aspect.
The change from copula to auxiliary involves a preservation of some of
the earlier features and a loss of the single remaining theta-role, namely the
Theme. I include this change for the sake of a broader picture. I am not add-
ing new data to what is known about the latter change.
Acquisition data (e.g. Becker 2000) show that children distinguish
between stative and non-stative copulas very early on. This is not surprising
given the central thesis of this book that inner aspect is one of the character-
istics children use to categorize verbs. The use of change-of-state copulas by
children has been less often examined. These occur after the age of 5 in the
data from four children.
The outline is as follows. In section 2, I provide some background infor-
mation on what I include under copula and provide a structural represen-
tation. In section 3, I list the Old, Middle, and Modern English copulas
to see what has shifted in the inventory. I also examine the very extended
paradigm of the verb ‘to be’ and what information is contained in it. Then,
5	Copulas
116  Copulas
in section 4, I examine the change from unaccusative to copula and, in sec-
tion 5, that of transitive to copula. Section 6 turns to the change from cop-
ula to auxiliary. Section 7 examines what acquisition data can tell us and
section 8 is a conclusion.
2 Copulas
Copulaverbshavemanyfunctionscross-linguistically,suchaslinkingsubjects
with locational and adjectival predicates. The diversity of what copulas are
sensitive to in their clausal environment involves permanent/non-permanent
(e.g. in Spanish), location/identity (e.g. in Chinese), and realis/irrealis (e.g.
in Old English). Benveniste (1960), Rude (1978), and Freeze (1992) make
many connections between location, possession, existence, and identity.
Copulas are always grammaticalized forms, from verbs, personal and
demonstrative pronouns, or locative markers, that usually still have a more
fully lexical counterpart in the stage of the language (see van Gelderen 2015
for more references).
There is some debate as to what counts as a copula; e.g. Lyons (1977:
471) defines it as a “meaningless lexeme” and includes only the neutral ‘be’.
I will use a broader definition that includes copulas with shades of modal,
e.g. ‘seem’, and aspectual, e.g. ‘remain’, meanings. Although these meanings
might imply reanalysis as auxiliary verb, that is not the case, as I show. My
definition of a copula is a structural one: linking a DP, AP, or PP to a DP in
subject position, assigning a Theme role to the latter, and adding modal and
aspectual meanings. One could think of it as a light verb, responsible for a
certain Theta-role.
Many possible structures for copulas have been suggested (for instance,
Higgins 1979; Rothstein 1995; Moro 2000; Hoekstra 2004, Mikkelsen
2005, and den Dikken 2006). Frequent analyses involve a small clause, i.e.
one without a verb, as in (1). Den Dikken has argued that the Small Clause
is Relator Phrase, headed by a relator head, as in (2).
Another structural representation of a copula involves a Pred(icate)Phrase
(Bowers 1993), the head of which is involved in theta-marking of the Theme
Copulas 117
that bears the grammatical subject role. Baker (2003) argues that the Pred
makes the predicative function of nouns and adjectives possible. I will be
using the PredP, as in (3), since it is the most transparent about theta-roles.
Many languages, e.g. Arabic, allow zero copulas in generic situations.
When past or future needs to be added, the copula appears. In cases like
these, it can be argued that the copula is in T. I will not consider zero copu-
las here.
3  Changing Copulas
In this section, I will provide data on the verbs that function as copulas
in the various stages of English (section 3.1). I will then examine changes
inside the paradigm of the verb ‘to be’ (section 3.2) and the sources of Mod-
ern English copulas (section 3.3). As we’ll see, the Old English copula ‘be’
can be marked for mood but this is later taken over by specialized copulas.
3.1 Increase
Curme (1935: 66–8) says there are 60 copulas in English and that “no other
language shows such a vigorous growth of copulas” (67). Visser (1963:
213–19) lists over 100 for the various stages, among them those in Table 5.1,
which I have recategorized slightly and given with their Old English main
meanings (from Bosworth and Toller and from Clark Hall). I have also
added some of Visser’s quasi-copulas, such as standan ‘stand’, as in (4); not
listed is be but see the next subsection.
(4)	 stent ðonne ðeofscyldig	 se ðe hit on handa hæfð
	 stands then thief.guilty	 he REL it on hand has
	 ‘He stands guilty as a thief who has it on his hands.’
	 (DOE, Æthelred, Liebermann Die Gesetze der Angelsachsen 1903–16
220–6)
Looking at the above tables, we see a lot of possible durative copula types
in Old English but fewer telic ones and especially fewer stative copulas.
118  Copulas
The latter is due to something we’ll see in section 3.2, namely that ‘be’ could
be used for irrealis mood.
In Old English, there is only one specific copula specialized for mood and
that is ðyncan ‘seem’, as in (5) and (6). This verb is very versatile in that it
has an Experiencer in (5) and a clausal Theme in (6). In chapter 7, we’ll see
that it is also used as a visual perception copula.
(5)	 Ac hwelc	 wite	 sceal	 us	 ðonne	 to hefig   ðyncan?
But which	 punishment shall us	 then	 too heavy  seem
‘But which punishment shall seem too heavy to us?’
(OED, Gregory Pastoral Care, Hatton 255.2–3)
(6)	 Him þa seo mænigeo þurh gemæne word,	 arlease cyn, andswarode:
him then the commoners through false word, honorless kind, answered
þis þinceð gerisne and riht micel, þæt þu ðe aferige of þisse folcsceare.
it seems proper and very right that you yourself take.away of this land
	 ‘The multitude of honorless people answered him that it seems very
right that you leave this land.’ (DOE, Genesis 2478, Krapp 1931)
Table 5.1  Copulas in English from Visser (1963: 189ff)
Old English
aspect
durative: (a/ge/þurh)wunian ‘dwell, rest, be, exist’
(ge)bidan ‘abide, continue’
belifan ‘remain’
licgan ‘lie, be’
sittan ‘sit, be’
(ge)standan ‘stand, exist, be’
warian ‘remain’
telic: come, (ge)weorðan, (ge)
weaxan
‘become’
stative: þyncan/ðuncan ‘seem’
Middle English
durative: cliffian, (en)dure, dwell, hove, last, remain, rest, bego,
begrow, run, make, hang, play, yawn
telic: become, fall, go, grow, turn, wane, blow, blush, break, fly
stative: appear, (be)seem, prove, show, smell
Early Modern English
durative: continue, hold, keep, persevere, persist, stay, wear
telic: (be)fall, commence, get, result, burst, flash, flush turn out/up
stative: come, loom, feel, ring, sound, strike, taste
Copulas 119
The history of English shows three kinds of copulas and a lot of renewal.
There is an increase in copula types marking mood after Old English. The
reason is that the Old English verb ‘be’ can express irrealis mood but that it
loses that later, as we’ll see next.
3.2  The Verb ‘To Be’
The verb to be has a paradigm that is a combination of many different
forms, as shown in Table 5.2, which has been discussed by many (e.g.
Wischer 2010; Petré 2014). All of these show origins typical for copulas:
demonstratives and unaccusative verbs. The s-forms may go back to an old
demonstrative *sa (hence accounting for the third-person restriction for is)
and the be-forms to the reconstructed Indo-European intransitive *bheu
‘grow’. The wes(ende) goes back to the intransitive *wes ‘remain, dwell’
and the passive weorðan (not shown in the table below) goes back to *wert
‘turn’. Petré (2014: 91–2) lists slightly different possibilities, but that’s not
important for the main point, namely that this paradigm is highly suppletive
and derived from erstwhile demonstratives or unaccusative verbs.
Although many of these verbs go back to old intransitives and keep some
of the semantic peculiarities, by Old English, they are seen as one paradigm.
Table 5.2 represents the Late Old English West-Saxon paradigm. Northum-
brian restricts b-forms to the indicative (see Bolze 2013: 219).
In Old English, as can be seen from Table 5.2, the b-forms are used
for irrealis (some would say +/−future) mood and generic situations and
the eam/eart/is/sint and w-forms are mainly used for the present and past
indicative. This is true whether the b-form is used as main verb, copula, or
Table 5.2  The Old English forms of the verb beon ‘to be’
Indicative Subjunctive Imperative
Present ic am ic sie/beo
þu art þu sie/beo wes/beo
he/o is he/o sie/beo
PL sint/sindon PL sien/beon wesaþ/beoþ
Past ic wæs Past S wære
þu wære
he/o wæs
we/ge/hi wæron Past PL wæren
Future/ ic beom
generic þu bist
he/o biþ
we/ge/hi beoþ
Participles wesende/
beonde/
gebeon
120  Copulas
auxiliary. The example in (7) shows a number of these be-forms and one
telic, gewearðan.
(7)	 Nu bið swyðe raðe ante cristes tima. þæsðe we wenan	      future
	 Now be very soon anti christ’s time of.which we think
	 magan 7 eac georne witan. 7 þ bið se egeslicesta	future
	 may and also willingly know. and that is the most.awful
	 þe æfre gewearð syððan þeos woruld ærost gesceapen wæs.  telic past
	 that ever became since this world first created was.
	 ‘Very soon now, it will be the time of the Antichrist which we think and
know consciously about. It will be the most awful time that ever arose
since the world was created.’ (Wulfstan, Homily 42, Napier 1883)
This mood-based division has been examined by various people (Jost 1909,
Biese 1952, Campbell 1959, and Wischer 2010, all cited in Petré 2014),
as has the change to the Middle English system where, according to Petré
(2013, 2014), the b-form is used for plural indicative, as (8) shows. For
Petré, the reason for this change is the grammaticalization of shall as a future
marker. Because the b-form is also used for generic statements that are in
the plural, it is reanalyzed as a plural rather than an irrealis/generic marker.
(8)	 manige wise	 menn	 ðar	  wæron gegaderade.   ealle   to smeagende
	 many wise  
men   
there 
were gathered      
all  to ask
	 embe Godes cyrcan bote.		 ða beoð innan Cent.
	 about God’s church’s compensation	 that are in Kent
	 ‘Many wise men were gathered there, all to ask about the church’s com-
pensation, who are in Kent.’
	 (Anglo-Saxon Charters, http://deeds.library.utoronto.ca/charters/0369
2008, in Petré 2014)
Currently, the paradigm shows a finite/non-finite split: be, been, being are
the non-finite forms and the non-be ones are finite. I have formulated the
changes as (9).
(9)	 Germanic mood > OE mood > ME number > ModE finite
This marking of the mood in the paradigm may mean that separate mood-
marking copulas are less necessary. The changes in the mood system affect
the inventory of copulas, as seen in section 3.1.
Copulas 121
After this description of the situation throughout the history of English,
I’ll now turn to the types of verbs that copulas derive from. This is impor-
tant for the main point of this book, namely the types of changes verbs
undergo in terms of aspect and theta-roles.
3.3 Sources
Table 5.3 provides 41 current copulas and lists what type of verb they origi-
nate from or are polysemous with. Of the transitives, five are perception
verbs but only in two cases does the transitive develop into a copula, namely
in the case of feel and look. The other three verbs, sound, smell, and taste,
are introduced as copulas and transitives in an independent development in
Middle English.
Some of the copulas in the table are more frequent and less specialized
(e.g. feel, sound, appear, and remain) than others (persevere, blush, drift,
and commence).
Looking back to the unaccusative and unergative continuum in Table 2.7,
we see that the unaccusative verbs in Table 5.3 are all from the top half, i.e.
the unaccusative side, and are spread evenly between these verb classes, as
Table 5.4 shows. The exceptions are the verbs go and appear. The former
is currently a controlled motion verb but has older unaccusative meanings
in the OED from which the telic copula is derived. The verb appear is both
a change-of-state and stative verb and loses its telic aspect but retains the
stative meaning in the stative copula use, as we’ll see in the next section.
Table 5.3  Copulas in Modern English
Also unaccusative Also transitive Also labile
appear, remain, stay, drift feel, sound, smell, look, taste ring, continue
persevere, persist, go hold, keep, wear, get prove, grow, turn
come (expensive), fall (flat) strike, show, flash, bang (shut) commence, wax
loom, break, befall, seem fly (open), burn
stand, lie, blush, rest Become blow (open)
Table 5.4  The types of unaccusative copulas
Sorace’s term example copular aspect
Change of Locaon come, fall, befall, dri, go telic
Change of State break, blush, become, appear telic
Connuaon of a remain, stay, persist, persevere durave
pre-exisng state stand, lie, rest, loom
Existence of State seem, appear stave
Uncontrolled process --
Controlled process (moonal) --
Controlled process (non-motional) --
122  Copulas
Note that there are no core unergatives, e.g. swim, work, or walk, that
are the source of these verbs and that the original level of telicity/durativity
is reflected in the change. There are instances of play dead/dumb/sick and of
run dry. With the former, the meaning of play is still that of ‘pretending to
be’ and, with the latter, the meaning is ‘cause to flow’.
In section 4, I will examine three unaccusative verbs that are reanalyzed
as copulas: they change from V to Pred but keep the Theme with an inner
aspect that is compatible with the original level of telicity/durativity. Sec-
tion 5 examines the transitives and labile verbs.
4  Appear, Remain, and Become in Middle English
In this section, I describe some of the changes involving the intransitives
appear, remain, and become, namely copulas of mood, duration, and
change of state, respectively. I develop an explanation based on Visser’s
(1946, 1963) insights for these verbs.
In Middle English, the first intransitive to become a stative copula is
appear (Visser 214–15).1
This verb comes into the language as an intransi-
tive with the meaning of ‘be visible’, as in (10), and ‘become visible, come
forth, be clear’, as in (11). So, it has both stative as well as telic meanings.
(10)	 This Sterre . . . that wee clepen the Lode Sterre, ne apperethe not to hem
	 This star that we call the Lode Star, not appears not to them
	 ‘This star, which we call the Lode Star, is not visible to them.’
	 (OED, 1366 Mandeville’s Trav. xvii. 180)
(11)	 Aperede an ongel of heuene in here slepe.
	 ‘(There) appeared an angel from heaven in her sleep.’
	 (OED, c1250 Kent. Serm. in Old Eng. Misc. 27)
It becomes a copula in the 14th century, as in (12), which are stative because
the meaning is ‘was evil/conspicuous’ and not ‘became evil/conspicuous’.
(12)	a.	And the Lord siȝ, and it apperide yuel in hise iȝen.
		 ‘And the Lord saw and it appeared/was evil in his eyes.’
		(OED, a1425 Wycliffite Bible L.V. Royal Isa. lix. 15)
b.	Our greatness will appear Then most conspicuous.
	 (OED, 1667 Milton Paradise Lost ii. 257)
With the adjective yuel ‘evil’ in (12a), Visser argues that the sentence is
ambiguous between modifying the (intransitive) verb or the subject nomi-
nal: “The use of adjectives as predicative adjuncts is as old as the English
Copulas 123
language” (Visser 1963: 183). However, even with a PP, as in (11), it is
ambiguous, i.e. because in here slepe in (10) can be an adjunct or subject
predicate, it can reanalyze.
The features that are relevant in this change are shown in (13), with the
main change probably going from change of state (‘become visible’) or sta-
tive (‘be visible’) to only stative aspect (‘uncertain mood’). Structurally, the
change that could happen to (11) is represented in (14). The [u-Th] indicates
that appear needs a Theme theta-role.
(13)	 V (intransitive)	 >	 Pred (copula)
appear	 appear
[be/come visible]	 [uncertain mood]
[u-Th]	[u-Th]
[u-Th] [u-Th]
Because the copula appear keeps some of its original semantics, it could be
argued that it is a modal, as in (15a). That, however, is unlikely since be
cannot appear on its own, as (15b) shows,2
and because it co-occurs with
other modals, as in (15c).
124  Copulas
b.	
which appears *(to) be undergoing an economic recovery (COCA
2015)
c.	
In the short term, the agriculture industry might appear healthy
(COCA 2012)
Another instance of an intransitive that turns into a copula is the verb
remain, which is borrowed as an intransitive from French in the 14th cen-
tury. Its meaning in Latin is ‘stay behind’, which is durative. In Table 2.7,
it is more towards the middle of the continuum precisely because of its
durativity.
The first instance that the OED provides is given in (16a), with a meaning
of ‘continue to belong, stay with’. The first instances given in the MED are
from 1425, as in (16b), with the same ‘stay behind’ meaning.
(16)	a.	To the part of this endenture remaynand to the forsaid Alexander.
‘As for the part of this agreement remaining to the already men-
tioned Alexander.’
(OED, 1388, Robertson Illustr. Topogr. and Antiq. Aberdeen and
Banff 1857)
b.	Onely oo cow she hadde a-lyue remaynyng of that pestilence.
	 ‘Only one cow she had alive remaining of the plague.’
	 (MED, 1425, Found.St.Barth. 60/15)
Note that the grammatical aspect emphasizes the durative nature through
the -and and -yng.
The first instance of remain as a copula is hard to give. Visser’s clearest
example as a copula with an adjective is from 1528 and given in (17). Oth-
ers, dating from 1513, are given in (18) and (19).
(17)	 the hole body of Christes holy church remaine pure.
	 (Thomas More Works 183 F8, Visser 1963: 195)
(18)	Where remained behynd, the Lorde Ryuers the Kynges vncle
	 (Richard III, www.luminarium.org/renascence-editions/r3.html)
(19)	 those lordes of her honorable kinne, which as yet remained vnder
arrest should vpon the matter examined, do wel ynough. (Richard III,
idem)
The scenario provided by Visser (1963: 195) on how the intransitive reana-
lyzes into a copula is, as in the case of appear, structural ambiguity. In the
Copulas 125
intransitive use, Visser notes, there is often an apposition, as with prison-
ers in (20). The intended meaning is that ‘they remained’ with a secondary
predicate telling us how they remained, namely ‘as prisoners’. This nominal
is not clearly separate from the rest of the sentence and hence reanalyzable
as the complement to the copula.
(20)	 the Factour with the others did remaine prisoners
	 ‘the perpetrator with the others remained, prisoners.’
	 (Visser 1963: 195, Lichefield translation, 1582)
Since remain is often used in the conclusion of letters, a name would
be following it as well, again reanalyzable. This may very well be true
although, if we look at actual examples, this use is infrequent. For instance,
the Paston Letters have 36 instances of a form of remayn but none of
these have a name following; see (21) for a more typical one from the
year 1461.
(21)	 I am yor bedman and so shall remayn be the grace of God all the days
of myn liff
	 ‘I am your servant and so shall remain (I) by the grace of God, for all
the days of my life.’ (Visser 1963: 195, Gairdner’s edition II p. 66)
(21)	 in its own right is ambiguous as to whether what follows is a primary
or secondary predicate.
Apart from the appositive uses of nouns after intransitives, there is
another reason for the instability of intransitives that was mentioned in
connection to appear, namely, if an adjective follows the verb, the adjective
is ambiguous between modifying the (intransitive) verb or complementing
the copula. Visser (1946: 65) notes that, even in the 16th century, certain
adjectives could be used as adjective or adverb. Sentences (22ab) are such
ambiguous cases.
(22)	 a.	All goodes . . . brought to the seid Fayre . . . remaynyth vnsoold
	 (MED, 1463, GRed Bk.Bristol, pt.2.p. 61)
b.	Since which she was removed to Kimbolton, Where she remains
now sick. (Visser 1963: 195, Shakespeare, Henry VIII, 4.1)
Even in Modern English, the sentences in (23) are ambiguous, although usu-
ally the intonation will tell whether it is a copula with no break, as in (23),
or an intransitive with secondary predication, as in (24).
126  Copulas
(23)	 a.	They lived happy.	 copula
b.	She returned rich.
(24)	 a.	They lived, happy.	 intransitive
b.	She returned, rich.
Many speakers feel uncomfortable putting an adjective next to an intransi-
tive verb and have trouble deciding whether or not to put an -ly in (25ab)
or not.
(25)	 a.	Does the clutch feel any different/differently?
b.	Do not go gentle/gently into that good night.
A similar ambiguity of analysis between an intransitive with an adver-
bial PP and a copula with a complement PP occurs in many stages of the
language. Thus, lives in (26a) could be either intransitive or copula, as
opposed to is in (26b), which can only be a copula because be can’t mean
‘exist’.
(26)	 a.	She lives in Italy.
b.	She is in Italy.
The features involved in this change show a change, as in (27), where the
features of continuation translate into durative aspect.
(27)	 V (intransitive)	 >	 Pred (copula)
	 remain	 remain
[continuation]	[durative]
	[u-Th]	 [u-Th]
The reanalysis of intransitives as copulas is to be expected because intransi-
tives rarely remain without some kind of adverbial. Let’s turn to the struc-
tural changes needed for reanalyzing remain in (28) from intransitive to
copula. These are given in (29). So the VP is reanalyzed as PredP but the rest
remains the same.
(28)	 the great primar, whiche before daies I gave to my wif, remayn styll
to her. (OED, 1513 Will of Robert Fabyan in R. Fabyan New Chron.
Eng. (1811) Pref. p. vii)
Copulas 127
As in the case of appear, we could argue that remain is an aspectual auxiliary
with an empty copula. Here too, we lack examples of (30) without the to.
(30)	 safety remains *(to) be weak in this country (COCA 2011)
In terms of theta-roles, it is possible that intransitives are unstable after the
derivational morphology disappears at the end of Old English. There are two
ways to reanalyze this situation: increase the transitivity, as we’ve seen in the
previous chapter, or change the verb to a Pred, as in (29b). The change of an
intransitive to a copula is exemplified by verbs such as remain (and stay) that
retain some of their original characteristics in that they are aspectual copulas.
In Old English, the verb become is an intransitive change-of-location
verb, as (31) shows. There are more abstract uses in Old English, as in (32),
concerning time and, as in (33), meaning ‘befall’ with an additional dative.
(31)	 Hannibal to þam lande becom.
Hannibal to that land came
‘Hannibal came to that land.’ (OED, Orosius, Bately 100.17)
(32)	 Syþðan niht becom.
‘When night came.’ (OED, Beowulf 115)
(33)	 þæt þæm godum becymð anfeald yfel.
that those good happens unmixed evil
‘that to good people evil happens.’ (OED, Boethius, Sedgefield 131.25)
The first sense of a copula ‘come to be’ in the OED is from 1175. Examples
in (34) to (38) are taken from the Cursor Mundi. The glossary of Morris’
edition mentions 20 instances and they are mostly copulas in the modern
sense, although a few are still intransitive. Cursor Mundi is a poem of 30,000
128  Copulas
lines that narrates the history of the world. It is a text of which several manu-
scripts exist. Morris’ (1874–1893) edition has two Northern (Cotton Vespa-
sian and Göttingen) and two Midlands versions (Fairfax and Trinity). As can
be seen from the information in parentheses, the dialectal origin doesn’t play
a role because the same copula appears in different versions.
(34)	 [Of] tristrem and hys leif ysote, How he for here be-com a sote
	 ‘About Tristram and his love Isolde, how he became a fool for her.’
	 (Cotton, 17–18; also in Fairfax)
(35)	 A-gayn him suld becum sua grim?
	 ‘against him (he) should turn so fierce.’
	 (Cotton, 456; also in Göttingen; be in Fairfax)
(36)	 þat he wald bicom our broþer
	 ‘that he wants to become our brother.’
	 (Cotton 854; same copula in all versions)
(37)	 Quen þat sua bicums ald
	 ‘When he becomes old.’
	 (Cotton 3562; same copula in all versions)
(38)	 þis zachari þat i of [rede], Becummen was o leui [sede]
‘This Zechariah of whom I am telling, became of Levi’s seed.’
(Cotton 10935–6; same copula in all versions)
By the beginning of the 16th century, become is no longer used intransitively
(Visser 1946: 51). Its reanalysis as change-of-state copula must have been
due to an ambiguity between adjective and adverb, as in (33), for instance,
similar to that in the case of appear and remain.
As before, I provide the changes in terms of features and a tree in (39)
and (40).
Copulas 129
See also Petré (2014, chapter 6) who, in a careful study of the semantics of
become, provides a lot of detail on the complement possibilities.
The three copulas discussed in this section show that they stay true to
their original aspectual features and all continue to have Themes as argu-
ments. The unaccusative appear keeps its stative use (losing its telic one), the
unaccusative remain translates its semantic features of ‘continuation’ into
durative aspect, and the unaccusative become keeps its telic aspect. The next
source of copulas to consider is transitives.
5  Transitive and Labile to Copula Verb
As we saw in section 3.3, transitives and labile verbs (i.e. alternating
between unaccusative and causative) are also reanalyzed as copula verbs.
Unergatives are not. I have repeated the ones mentioned before with more
detail in (41).
(41)	 also transitive:
	 feel, sound, smell, look, taste, show (perception)
	 hold, keep, wear (durative)
	 strike, flash, bang (shut) (semelfactive)
	 prove, get
	 also labile:
	 ring, continue, grow, turn, commence, wax, fly (open), burn, blow
(open)
In this section, I provide examples of a selection of these, namely feel, look,
hold, keep, wear, strike, flash, bang, grow, and continue.
5.1  Perception Verbs
The change from transitives to copula is based on a structural reanalysis
from transitive middle to copula, as we’ll see in the case of the perception
verbs feel and look. The four other perception verbs will not be dealt with
at length: sound starts out as an unaccusative in 1300 and is extended to
copula in 1375, very much like the other unaccusatives; smell is of unclear
origin but is transitive as well as copula around 1175; taste starts out as a
transitive; and show is an uncommon copula.
Gefelan is a transitive built on the intransitive felan.3
It is a transitive
verb in Old English, as (42) shows, and seems stative because none of the
examples have a with(out)-adverbial and the theta-role of the subject is that
of an Experiencer. There is a later durative verb meaning ‘explore by touch’,
shown in (43), which usually has a with(out)-adverbial.
130  Copulas
(42)	a.	Þysþernes. . .	 swa	 gedrefedlic	 þæt	 hit	 man	 gefelan mihte
	 darkness	 so	 troublesome	 that	 it	 man	feel  might
	 ‘Darkness so troublesome that one might feel it.’
	(OED, Orosius Bately 26.4)
b.	And þonne seo modor gefele þæt þæt bearn si cwic, . . .
	 and then the mother feel that the child be alive
	 ‘And when the mother feels that the child is alive, . . .’
	 (DOE, Dobbie, The Anglo-Saxon Minor Poems 123–4)
(43)	 Wee han gropid as blinde men the wall, as withoute eȝen wee han felid.
	 ‘We have groped as blind men (do) the wall, as if we felt without eyes.’
	 (OED, 1382 Bible, Wycliffite, E.V., Isa. lix. 10)
The stative, sense perception meaning remains throughout the history of
English as the Middle English (44a) and the Modern English (44b) testify
to. We’ll come back to this in chapter 7 as well.
(44)	a.	so þat adaies he felt noþing, ne tasted
		
‘so that during the day he felt nothing, (and did) not taste anything.’
(OED, Trevisa Higden Polychron, VII. 147)
b.	May felt the darkness. (COCA fiction 2009)
The first copula-like instance the OED gives is early Modern English (45a),
with the verb to be. Other examples are given in (45b-d).
(45)	a.	The hande. . . feeling to bee rough.
		 ‘The hand feels rough.’
		 (OED, 1581, Pettie tr. S. Guazzo Ciuile Conuersat. ii. 92)
b.	
The substance of it feels . . . exactly like a very fine piece . . . of
Chamois leather. (OED, 1665, Hooke Micrographia 139)
c.	 If it feels heavy . . . then we give him more Rope.
	 (OED, 1694 Acct. Several Late Voy. (1711) ii. 165)
d.	The weather was extremely cold, and felt particularly so to us.
	 (OED, 1768, Byron Narr. Patagonia 263)
Poutsma (1926: 57) notes that feel, smell, and taste may also be comple-
mented by an adverb, e.g. by how in (46a) and unpleasantly in (46b), or a
noun used adverbially, as in (46c).
Copulas 131
(46)	 a.	How it feels to be in England.
b.	The rags smelt unpleasantly.
c.	It sounded to me the sweetest music.
These are late Modern English examples but they may tell us how the rein-
terpretation of transitive as copula took place, namely through a middle-like
structure, in which the Theme is the subject (i.e. it, the rags, and it, respec-
tively), and the Experiencer is not mentioned.
The changes can be phrased in terms of features in (47) and a tree in
(48), for the change from the transitive with an unexpressed Experiencer
in (46a), represented as (48a), to that of the copula of (45c), represented
in (48b).
Intransitives are reanalyzed readily as copulas because not much changes
in the argument structure. Transitives lose an argument in the change and
this is possible when a middle, passive-like structure is seen as a verb with
one argument. The aspect remains unchanged. Thus, stative transitive verbs
reanalyze as stative, modal copulas.
Let’s see if this is true with another perception verb, look, as well. This
verb is first a durative verb, as in (49), with an Agent and optionally a
Theme that is expressed by means of a preposition.
132  Copulas
(49)	a.	He on heofon locode
		 he on heaven looked
		 ‘He looked towards the heavens.’
		 (OED, West Saxon Gospels: Mark Corpus, vi. 41)
b.	eagan hi habbað & hig ne lociað.
		 eyes they have and they not look
		
‘They have eyes but do not look.’ (OED, Lambeth Psalter cxxxiv. 16)
The verb look has a Middle English intransitive use that could be the precur-
sor for the copula.
(50)	 Wurðliche hie deð lokin ðe manne ðe hes luuieð.
	 decently it makes look the man that it loves
	 ‘It makes the man look decent who loves it.’
	 (MED, 1225, Vices and Virtues 133–4)
The copula has its origin in the increasing ambiguity of the adverb due to
the loss of the adverbial -e ending before the -liche/ly endings took over.
Two variants of the same text show this change in (51): (51a) with hungri as
adjective and (51b) with hungriliche as adverb.
(51)	a.	So hungri and so holewe · sire herui him loked.
		 ‘So hungry and hollow Sir Harvey looked to him.’
		 (MED, Piers Plowman, A-text, V, 108)
b.	So hungriliche and holwe sire Heruy hym loked.
		 ‘So hungrily and hollow Sir Harvey looked to him.’
		 (MED, Piers Plowman, B-text V, 189)
By the time of Chaucer, i.e. late Middle English, the copula use is frequent,
as in (52).
(52)	 The statue of Mars. . . loked grym as he were wood.
	 (MED, c1385 Chaucer CT.Kn. A.2042)
Unlike in the case of feel, where a stative with Experiencer and Theme is
reanalyzed as stative with Theme, agentive look in (49) is hard to connect
to copular (51a) and (52). The changes would be loss of durative aspect,
Copulas 133
loss of the Agent, and a change of the [visual] semantic features to a similar
meaning in the copula, as shown in (53).
(53)	 V (transitive)	 >	 Pred
	 locian	 look
[durative]	[stative]
	 [u-A] [u-Th]	 [u-Th] [u-Exp]
This is an unexpected change and it may be the case that the copula’s ori-
gin is from a different variant, for instance, the Middle English meaning of
‘expect’ that the OED provides and which is shown in (54).
(54)	 For æuere heo lokede whænne Hengest come an-uuenan.
	 Because ever they anticipated when Hengest come to them
	 ‘Because they were always anticipating that Hengest would come.’
	 (OED, Layamon, Caligula 7731)
Here, at least, the theta-roles are Experiencer and Theme, but it is a subject
experiencer, not an object one, and this would be unexpected from what
we’ll see in chapter 6. It may be the case that we don’t have evidence for the
verb that became the copula.
5.2  Other Transitives
The durative transitives are all examined and so are the semelfactives. As
mentioned in chapter 2, the class of semelfactive is seen by many as its own
type of inner aspect, namely dynamic but not durative or telic, and I will
therefore consider all three. The verbs prove and get can be transitive or
ditransitive and I will leave them outside the discussion.
The first set to look at are the durative hold, keep, and wear. The meaning
of the verb hold is diverse, from ‘behold’, ‘watch over’, to ‘hold back’, and
intransitive ‘hold on’ and ‘continue’. The intransitive use is easily converted
into a copula, as in the cases we saw in the previous section. Checking Bos-
worth and Toller, the copula use is already there in OE, as shown in (55).
(55) he. . . het. . . þæt werod healdan fæste wið feondum.
he ordered that band hold fast against foes
‘he ordered the band to stand fast against the foes.’ (B&T, Maldon 100–2)
The origin of the verb keep is unclear, according to the OED. Its meanings
in the history of English again include ‘keep watch’ and ‘remain’, as in (56).
134  Copulas
From (56), it is easy to reanalyze the PP as part of the predicate and the
unaccusative verb as copula.
(56)	 Þis emperor . . . hase many men kepand at his courte.
	 ‘This emperor has many men staying at his court.’ (OED, c1400 Man-
deville’s Travels)
The verb wear has meanings such as the transitives ‘wear (on the body)’,
‘carry’, ‘fly (a flag)’, ‘destroy’, and the intransitive ‘decay’, from which use
of the copula most likely derives. The first copula in the OED is (57) in a
description of ill-thriving sheep.
(57)	 Teeth blacke, wearinge wide.
	 ‘teeth black, wearing wide.’
	 (OED, a1642 Best Farming & Memorandum Bks. (1984) 9)
Turning to the semelfactives, the copula use of strike is first mentioned by
Visser (1963: 218), as in (58a). It is an infrequent copula and more often a
complex transitive verb, as in (58b). Most likely, (58a) derives from (58b)
through a leaving out of the Experiencer.
(58)	 a.	[the cell] struck cold and damp (Dickens 1859)
b.	It struck me (as) cold and damp.
The other two semelfactives, flash and bang, are also infrequent and late,
as (59) shows.
(59)	 a.	 The lad flashed crimson with anger (Visser 1963: 216, Stevenson 1888)
b.	
The car door opened and banged shut (Visser 1963: 215, Sinclair
Lewis 1922)
Flash, in the sense of emitting light, is first seen in (60) in an intransitive
sense. When an optional modifier appears, this modifier can then easily be
reanalyzed as a complement.
(60)	 All flasshet in a ffire the firmament ouer.
	 ‘All flashed in a fire all over the firmament.’ (OED, a1400 Destr. Troy
12498)
The origin of the (infrequent) copula bang could be as a transitive verb, as
in (61a), or as unaccusative, as in (61b).
Copulas 135
(61)	 a.	Either yield to me the daie, Or I will bang thy back and sides
		 (OED, c1550 Rob. Hood (Ritson) ix. 95)
b.	It banged against his Calf, and jarred upon his Right Heel.
		 (OED, 1713 Guardian 25 Aug. 1/1)
5.3  Labile Verbs
In this section, two labile verbs are discussed, continue and grow. The expecta-
tion is that it is the unaccusative use that is reanalyzed in ambiguous contexts,
just like remain and appear. That is indeed most likely the source for the rea-
nalysis. That is also true for the other labile ones that I leave without examples.
Continue is borrowed from French and first appears as a causative in
1340 and then as unaccusative in 1400. (62ab) gives examples of these two
verb types from the same text.
(62)	a.	Þis medicyn þou schalt contynuen til it be hool.
		 this medicine you shall continue till it is cured
		 ‘You shall continue this medicine till there is a cure.’
		 (OED, c1400 Lanfranc’s Cirurg. A. 91)
b.	& þe accidentis contynewen.
		 and the accidents continue
		 ‘and the incidents continue.’ (OED, c1400 Lanfranc’s Cirurg. 120)
The OED doesn’t mention a copula use but a search of the Middle and
Early Modern sections of the Helsinki Corpus provides (63a), from a letter
from 1630, and COHA provides (63b) from 1812. There is a possible earlier
example in (63c), from the beginning of the 17th century, which shows an
ambiguity between unaccusative and copula, similar to that seen in section 4.
(63)	 a.	It pleases God that I continue ill with my coold. (HC, 1630)
b.	O may my fortunes, Still as they are, continue poor and mean.
		 (COHA 1812)
c.	 I shall continue thankefull. (Shakespeare, All’s Well, 5.1.17)
The copula use of continue is attested about 200 years after the appear-
ance of this verb into English as an unaccusative and causative. The copula
use derives from the unaccusative in a scenario where the adverb follow-
ing the unaccusative had become ambiguous between adverb and adjective.
136  Copulas
The features provided in (64) are very similar to those of remain in (28) and
the tree in (65) is similar to those of the other unaccusatives.
As in the case of earlier reanalyses (e.g. (14) and (29)), it is unlikely that
continue reanalyses as an aspectual auxiliary with an empty copula. The same
reasons can be given, namely that instances such as (66) are rare (once in the
COCA).
(66)	 Rie found ways to continue be musical on her own. (COCA 2013)
Another verb that is currently labile and also a copula verb is grow. It
is unaccusative very early on, initially used of plants, as in (67a), and then
figuratively and of humans, as in (67b). The first labile uses are from late
Middle English, as shown in (67), and not mentioned in the MED.
(67)	a.	Seo eorðe. . . grewð & blewð & westmas bringð.
		 The earth . . . grows and blossoms and crops brings
		 ‘The earth grows and blossoms and brings harvest.’
		 (OED, Alfred, Boethius 33.5)
b.	
Whan dauid had regned vii. yere in Ebron he grewe and amended
moche this cyte.
		‘When David has reigned 7 years in Hebron, he grew and changed this
city much.’ (OED, Caxton, 1481 Siege and Conquest of Jerusalem)
The cases of (67a) vastly outnumber those of (67b) and many have ambigu-
ous surroundings, as in (68).
Copulas 137
(68)	 a.	
Ȝif þou wylt remuin þe feloun from þe place, þat hee growyth
downward, Take wylde tansye . . .
		
‘If you want to remove the . . . from that place where it grows
downward, take wild tansy.’ (MED, 1450 Medical Recipes, 129/28)
b.	
Þe same disposicioun wole growe into such a degre þat it schal be
stable
	 ‘The disposition will grow into such a degree that it will be stable.’
(MED, c1454 Pecock Follower 79/24)
The copula first appears in the 16th century, as in (69); (70) shows the
reanalysis.
(69)	 and is small strawe, and wyll growe very thycke, . . .
(HC, 1534, Book of Husbandry)
(70)	 V (unaccusative)	 >	 Pred
	 grow	 grow
	 [Change of State]	 [telic]
	[u-Th]	 [u-Th]
The next section looks at a scenario in which all theta-roles are lost.
6  Copula to Auxiliary
In this section, I just point out the obvious, namely that copulas are the
source of auxiliaries, and perhaps the less obvious, that we know very little
about their structural reanalysis. The change from copula to auxiliary is one
in which the verb loses its single theta-role and only becomes relevant to
the aspectual or modal meaning of the sentence. In terms of structure, the
copula is reanalyzed as situated outside of the theta-domain, i.e. outside of
the PredP, and keeps its original aspect.
Heine (1993: 28) lists the typical sources that tense, mood, and aspect
auxiliaries derive from, namely, “where one is or moves, what one does or
wants, how a body is situated or what it is related to”. That includes verbs
with one and two arguments. All of the current and past English auxiliaries,
wesan, weorðan, have, be, get, and the modals, originate as main verbs,
some transitive, some intransitive, and some copula.
From Old English on, be is used as auxiliary of the perfect, as in (71a),
and possibly of the progressive, as in (71b), both from the OED.
(71)	a.	Min broðer is faren of þisse liue.
	 ‘My brother has gone from this life.’
	(Peterborough Chronicle, year 656)
138  Copulas
b.	Adam þa wæs wuniende on þisum life mid geswince.
	 Adam then was living in this life with labor
	 ‘Adam lived his life then, working.’
	 (Ælfric, Clemoes’ Catholic Homilies I, 184.166)
Because in Old English the verb ‘to be’ has both copula and intransitive
uses, there is no direct evidence that it was the copula be, as in (72), rather
than the intransitive, as in (73), that gave rise to the auxiliary. The copula,
however, is much more frequent.
(72)	 Crist is soð god 7 soð man. 7 ante crist bið4
soðlice deofol 7 man.
Se sylfa deofol þe on helle is se wyrð on þã earmsceapenan men ante
criste 7 bið soðlice ægðer gedeofol ge man.
	 ‘Christ is a true God and true man and the anti-Christ is truly a devil
and man. The same devil who is in hell he becomes the anti-Christ to
wretched men and is truly either devil or man.’ (Wulfstan, Homilies 42)
(73)	 Ða     lytlan  cild      
bædon him  hlafes,   
ac  þær næs nan
those  little   children  asked  him/them bread  but there NEG.was no
	 mann, ðe þone hlaf him betwynan tobræce
	 man REL that bread him between broke
	 ‘The small children asked him for bread but there was no one who could
break it for them.’ (OED, Ælfric Catholic Homilies: 2nd Ser. xxv. 233)
So, we have no evidence within the history of English of how the be-auxilia-
ries in (71) arose. I’ll provide a possible scenario as to how the Theme was
lost in (74), where the Pred represents the copula and the VP the unaccusative.
Copulas 139
In (74a), ‘be’ is still copula or existence of state verb, which is very much
in the middle of the continuum between unergative and unaccusative in
Table 2.7. It can therefore be reanalyzed as a durative verb without a clear
Agent or telic with a Theme. Depending on whether it is used with a passive
or progressive in (74bc), it can have either aspect.
A lot has been written about the demise of the copula and passive auxil-
iary wearðan ‘be, become’. As in the case of be, there is no direct evidence in
Old English of the change from copula to auxiliary because both are present
in Old English. A verb that has grammaticalized to passive auxiliary during
the history of English is get, as chronicled in Gronemeyer (1999). Here, the
copula use precedes the passive one, as evidenced by the first examples in the
OED: (75) as copula and (76) as passive.
(75)	 How to get cleere of all the debts I owe. (OED, 1600, Shakespeare,
Merchant of Venice i. i. 134)
(76)	 A certain Spanish pretending Alchymist . . . got acquainted with foure
rich Spanish Merchants. (OED, 1652, Gaule Πυς-μαντια 361)
What’s important is that the telic aspect remains in this case.
To finish this section, when a copula loses its only theta-role, it becomes
an auxiliary. The intransitive verb be is interesting in being placed rela-
tively in the middle of the unaccusative/unergative continuum and ends up
as either telic or durative auxiliary.
7 Acquisition
In this section, I argue that children’s initial use of copulas shows that they
are conscious of the aspectual differences in predicates. There has been
work on the acquisition of copulas since Brown (1973), who is interested
in the order of acquisition of the various morphemes. Becker (2000) finds
that the use versus non-use depends on finite versus non-finite environment.
I will review the latter’s findings and then add some of my own comments.
Becker (2000) shows that young children omit the copula when the predi-
cate expresses a temporary property (with an aspectual representation) but not
when it expresses a permanent property (without aspectual representation).
Her explanation is that, although children use finite and non-finite clauses,
the copula is inflected and therefore finite and only appears in the aspectually
simpler clause. The temporally marked clause has aspect but is not finite.
The data of four out of five children5
is reproduced from Becker (2000:
89) in (77) and representative examples are given in (78) and (79).
(77)		 permanent overt	 temporary overt copula
Nina	74.1%	 14%
Peter	81.2%	 26.7%
140  Copulas
Naomi	89.7%	 38.1%
Adam	44.4%	 4.9%
(78)	 a.	de sun is lightning (Adam 3;2.21)	 permanent
b.	he’s a dog (Nina 2;1.15)
(79)	 a.	he way up dere (Adam 3;0)		 temporary
b.	I in the kitchen (Nina 2;1.15, all from Becker 2000: 93)
These data show that the child learning English is very much aware of the
aspectual difference underlying the same copula, namely that between dura-
tion and permanence/stativity.
As far as I know (and Becker p.c.), not much has been done to see if
children are aware of the telic character of copulas and of other aspectual
flavors. Because Becker uses data from Nina (Suppes 1974), Peter (Bloom
1970), Naomi (Sachs 1983), and Adam (Brown 1973), I will too. Nina’s
data go until 3;3 years of age and become does not appear, nor do seem or
appear. Stay is ambiguous between a lexical verb, as in (80), and possibly a
copula, as in (81).
(80)	 stay all day long
(81)	 a.	it gonna stay on?
b.	that why they’re gonna stay in this bed. (Nina, 3;03.08)
Peter was recorded from the age of 1;9 to the age of 3;2, so we perhaps don’t
expect many varieties of copulas and indeed the data are like Nina’s. There
are no instances of seem, appear, and remain at all; the instances of turn are
all lexical verbs, but there are ambiguous instances of stay, as in (82).
(82)	 a.	*CHI:	 stay here (Peter, 2;07)
b.	*CHI:	 stay back (Peter, 2;02.14)
Naomi’s data go from 1;1 year of age to 5;1 years of age, but her use of
copulas other than be is very similar to that of Nina and Peter. The verb turn
is frequent though not as copula; the copulas appear, seem, and remain are
absent, but there is a copular use of stay, as in (83).
(83)	*CHI:	 gonna stay asleep (Naomi, 2;11.8)
Adam’s corpus, which goes until he is almost 5 years of age, contains four
instances of become, as in (84), but all from the same exchange. The verb
turn is frequent but not as a copula, and appear, seem, and remain do not
Copulas 141
occur at all, let alone as copulas. Stay is frequent but is a lexical verb, as
(85) shows, and never occurs followed by an adjective as would be expected
from a copula.
(84)	 a.	*CHI:	 an(d) become a spider
b.	*CHI:	 become a spider
c.	*CHI:	 become a spider web
d.	*CHI:	 can [?] somebody become a spider just like a magician?
		 (Adam, 3;04.18)
(85)	*CHI:	 don’t stay dere (Adam, 2;11.13)
In conclusion, children seem to understand very early the permanent and
non-permanent uses of the simple copula, i.e. the stative and durative mean-
ings, but take their time using telic copulas such as turn or become. That is
an unexpected result that I don’t have an explanation for.
8 Conclusion
The main function of a copula is to help assign a theta-role and to add aspec-
tual and modal meaning (at least in English). The three kinds of aspect that
we saw in other chapters play a role here as well: change of state, duration,
and the absence of aspect appear in the copulas, as become, remain, and
appear show, respectively. The origin of these copulas lies in unaccusatives.
There is a transitive origin to copulas as well; here the aspect remains
the same but the experiencer theta-role disappears, e.g. with feel. Other
transitives probably turn copulas via an intransitive stage. The causative/
unaccusative continue also reanalyzes in much the same way as the other
unaccusatives. As for auxiliaries, these lose the Theme theta-role as they
reanalyze from copulas and retain aspectual (or modal) meanings.
Children distinguish between non-permanent and permanent early on.
This distinction can be seen in terms of duration and state as well. Why chil-
dren are late acquirers of telic copulas may show telicity is more complex
than state and duration.
Notes
1	 I ignore (be)seem since that is a continuation of the Old English.
2	There are two instances without to in COCA, so it may be starting to be reana-
lyzed as (15a).
(i)	 Well, what have we here? It appears be a tape. (COCA 2003)
(ii)	 But as Eagle Ford production begins in earnest in South Texas, providing
housing—and quickly—in sparsely populated counties appears be the next
way for the enterprising to profit off of the play. (COCA 2011)
142  Copulas
3	 We have seen the ge-less verb felan as intransitive in chapter 3 because felan has a
genitive object.
4	 It would have been expected that the inflected bið in (55) became reanalyzed as a
future marker because it was often used in that context, but it didn’t.
5	 The fifth child, Eve, is excluded by Becker (2000: 91) because she shows a number
of other developmental differences.
1 Introduction
Psych-verbs involve mental perception, cognition, and emotion and, cross-
linguistically, show frequent alternations between verbs that have a Causer
and those that have an Experiencer as their grammatical subject. The causa-
tive constructions have an Experiencer in object position. As is well-known,
object experiencers are reanalyzed as subject experiencers in the history of
English, for instance, when Old English lician ‘please’ starts to be used in its
modern meaning of like; other verbs also change in this direction.
In this chapter, I add (a) more detail on the changes in the reanalysis of
the verb fear from object to subject experiencer verb, (b) a discussion of the
constant renewal of object experiencers through external borrowing and
internal change, e.g. stun, and (c) data on the reanalysis of subject experi-
encers as agents, as may be happening with like. I’ll also discuss the question
of whether increasing use of -ing shows a change in inner or outer aspect.
This set of three changes can be represented as Figure 6.1.
This chapter provides a framework for understanding changes in argu-
ment structure that affect many of the modern European languages in terms
of changes in aspect and the vP-shell and suggest a possible account. Psych-
verb alternations are important for the central thesis of this book because
their arguments involve Causer, Experiencer, and Theme, which are reshuf-
fled in ways determined by an Animacy Hierarchy. The two types of English
6	 Psych-Verbs
Figure 6.1  Three changes in argument structure affecting psych-verbs
144  Psych-Verbs
psych-verbs also differ in aspect: the object experiencer verb is telic and the
subject experiencer one is stative.
The outline is as follows. In section 2, I first put psych-verbs in a broader per-
spective. Section 3 provides evidence of the change from object to subject expe-
riencer in Old English and section 4 looks at this change in detail for the verb
fear. In section 5, I discuss the renewal of object experiencers, and in section 6
the change from experiencer to agent. In section 7, the first language acquisi-
tion data of these verbs are provided. The conclusion follows in section 8.
2  Psych-Verbs
Psych-verbs are mentioned in chapter 2 in connection to the Thematic Hier-
archy. They express mental states and involve the inclusion of an Experi-
encer argument. Each language has a slightly different set, with different
morphological characteristics. For instance, Italian is shown to have three
classes by Belletti and Rizzi (1988); Modern English has two kinds.
Frighten and fear are psych-verbs because they need an Experiencer argu-
ment. In the case of frighten, this Experiencer is an object, as shown in (1a),
and in the case of fear, it is a subject, as shown in (1b).
(1)	 a.	 That alien frightens him.	 him=object experiencer
b.	 He fears that alien.	 he=subject experiencer
Alternations such as in (1) have been very influential for theories and formu-
lations of theta-marking. How can verbs such as frighten have Experiencer
theta-roles that function as grammatical objects in (1a) whereas verbs such
as fear have Experiencers that function as grammatical subjects in (1b)? As
also mentioned in chapter 2, Belletti and Rizzi (1988) and Pesetsky (1995),
among others, have proposed (generative) accounts whereby the alternation
obeys the Thematic Hierarchy, as given in (22b) of chapter 2, repeated as (2).
(2)	 Thematic Hierarchy
Agent > Causer > Experiencer > Theme > Goal
Pesetsky, in particular, has argued that that alien is a Causer in (1a) and
that the order in (1a) therefore doesn’t violate (2) because the Experiencer
(object) is lower. If that alien is a Theme in (1b), the order in (2) again
doesn’t violate (3) because Theme is lower than Experiencer (subject).
Levin and Grafmiller (2013) show that only very few pure opposites, such
as fear and frighten and like and please, occur and that the reason for this
is the different animacy and definiteness of that alien in (1), depending on
if it bears the Causer or Theme theta-role. For instance, using data from
COCA, they show that the Causer is more often a human with frighten and
the Theme is less often human with fear. Their table shows this and it is
reproduced as Table 6.1.
Psych-Verbs 145
These facts obey the Animacy Hierarchy (1) of chapter 1, e.g. Causers are
higher up and therefore more animate than Experiencers. If a non-human
Theme is involved, as in (3a), fear is chosen because the human Experiencer
will be the subject. The choice of frighten with a non-human Cause will
be odd, as in (3b), because the human experiencer will be the object. If a
human Causer is involved, frighten is selected, and if a human Theme is,
fear is odd, as in (3cd).
(3)	 a.	 Did you fear a negative response from fans?
b.	 ??Did a negative response from fans frighten you?
c.	 “Sorry if I frightened you last night,” she told me.
d.	 ??“Sorry if you feared me last night,” she told me.
	 (Levin and Grafmiller 2013: 24)
So, the data in Levin and Grafmiller find a ready explanation in animacy
constraints.
An analysis using the notion of cause in (1a) makes sense in the light of
Croft (1993), who shows that, in many languages (e.g. Lakhota and Clas-
sical Nahuatl), experiencer object verbs are marked with a causative affix.
The en-suffix does that with some verbs in English, e.g. frighten. In this
chapter, I follow Arad (1998), Folli and Harley (2005), Pylkkänen (2008),
Alexiadou and Iordachioaia (2014), and others who have suggested that lit-
tle v can have different flavors, e.g. cause or state. Bouchard (1995), based
on Ruwet (1972), argues that any argument can be an Experiencer, and
Arad (1998) argues that the differences in types of psych-verbs are due to
aspectual properties. Subject experiencers are stative but object experienc-
ers are ambiguous between stative and telic. Alexiadou and Iordachioaia
(2014: 73–4) provide further arguments for the ambiguity; e.g. the use of
quickly in (4a) is compatible with a durative reading whereas the use of the
in-adverbial shows telicity.
Table 6.1 
Different flavors of the Causer and the Theme (from Levin and Grafmiller
2013: 26)
Fear Frighten Total
Human 37 (10.1%) 110 (33.3%) 147 (21.2%)
Animate 10 (2.7%) 13 (3.9%) 23 (3.3%)
Concrete object 20 (5.5%) 53 (16.1%) 73 (10.5%)
Event 31 (8.5%) 49 (14.8%) 80 (11.5%)
Abstract entity 142 (38.9%) 87 (26.4%) 229 (32.9%)
Proposition 125 (34.3%) 18 (5.5%) 143 (20.6%)
Total 365 (100%) 330 (100%) 695 (100%)
146  Psych-Verbs
(4)	 a.	 The article in the Times angered Bill quickly.
b.	 The article in the Times angered Bill in ten minutes.
If the aspectual properties of object experiencers are not uniform, that
may lead to diachronic instability. However, as I show in (11) below, the
transitional object experiencers are telic. If subject experiencers are stative,
the internal change to subject experiencer therefore involves a loss of telic
aspect in favor of stative aspect. A representation of both types is given in
(5a) and (5b).
The verb frighten has a telic aspect whereas that of fear is stative. In keep-
ing with one of the claims of this book that all verbs have a Theme, we can
think of (5a) as having an underlying Theme fright that is incorporated as a
verb. I’ll assume that but won’t represent it in the trees.
There are many verbs with Experiencer arguments, e.g. verbs of mental
perception and cognition (see Bossong 1998; Haspelmath 2001; Verhoeven
2007 for a typological perspective). One of the tendencies is for languages to
change towards expressing the experiencer as subject rather than as object.
Object experiencers, such as in (1a), are reanalyzed as subject experiencers,
such as in (1b). This change is well-known from the Old English verb lician
‘please’ (Lightfoot 1979 and Allen 1995), which starts to be used in its mod-
ern meaning of like. Haspelmath (2001) shows that many languages spo-
ken in Europe (his Standard Average European) use the subject experiencer
strategy, and the Atlas and Survey of Pidgin and Creole Linguistic Structure
(Michaelis et al. 2013: 264–71) confirms that with verbs like and fear the
subject experiencer is the most frequent pattern.
Having provided a basic description and structure for psych-verbs, I now
chronicle what happens to them in older stages of the language.
Psych-Verbs 147
3  Psych-Verbs in Old English
In this section, I first provide a partial list of the first attested use of certain
psych-verbs. How they first appear provides us insight into the changes they
undergo. I then review the reanalysis of object experiencers as argued by van
der Gaaf (1904), Jespersen (1909–1949), Lightfoot (1979), Fischer and van
der Leek (1983), and Allen (1995).
3.1  Psych-Verbs: A List
Table 6.2 provides a partial list of Modern English psych-verbs as well
as their first occurrence with the meaning they currently have, as gleaned
Table 6.2 
Psych-verbs (this selection is based on Croft 1993: 56; Levin 1993:
188–93; Pesetsky 1995: 18; Talmy 2001: 99)
ObjExp First occurrence SubExp First occurrence
weary OE
like OE love OE
fear OE dread OE
loathe OE hate OE
anger 1200 like 1200 (earlier ObjExp)
scare 1200 loathe 1200 (earlier ObjExp)
delight 1225 weary 1225
disturb 1230 despise 1297
trouble 1230
annoy 1300 adore 1300
grieve 1300 delight in 1325 (also ObjExp)
please 1350 be angry at 1360
displease 1377
overjoy 1382 marvel in 1380 (earlier ObjExp)
thrill 1400 rejoice at/in 1390
rejoice 1425 fear 1393 (earlier ObjExp)
distress 1400 grieve (over) 1400
cheer 1430
vex 1450 regret 1450
surprise 1474 be afraid of 1475
hurt 1526 pity 1475
irritate 1531 be surprised 1485
terrify 1536 admire 1500
exhilarate 1540 fume about 1522
gladden 1558 (alternating in OE) detest 1533
amuse 1600 relish 1580 (earlier ObjExp)
astonish 1600 dislike 1593 (briefly ObjExp)
embitter 1603 resent 1595
frighten 1666 thrill at 1598 (briefly)
infuriate 1667 be troubled at 1604
madden 1726 worry with 1671
bore 1768 be bored by 1768
worry 1807 be furious about/at 1855
148  Psych-Verbs
Table 6.3  Reanalysis of object experiencer as subject experiencer verbs
ObjExp SubExp
loathe OE–1600 1200–present
like OE–1800 1200–present
fear OE–1480 1400–present
marvel 1380–1500 1380–present
relish 1567–1794 1580–present
from the OED. I am only including verbs with two DP arguments, not with
clausal ones.
The reason for providing the list is that it shows several important devel-
opments in the history of English. (a) Many of the verbs that are now psych-
verbs have become so relatively recently. This indicates a lot of change.
(b) A few subject experiencer verbs, namely dread, hate, and love, have
remained stable but are currently undergoing a change, as I explain in sec-
tion 6. (c) Some of the object experiencers have been reanalyzed as subject
experiencers, e.g. weary, like, fear, and loathe (see Table 6.3), but not the
other way round. (d) Some of the renewals in the object experiencer verbs
include causative markers (fright-en, madd-en, in-furiate, em-bitter, and
terr-ify). (e) Verbs that alternate, such as grieve and delight, have the object
experiencer use as the earlier use. (f) There may be an additional preposition
marking the Theme (or Subject Matter/Target in Pesetsky 1995) or auxil-
iary for subject experiencer verbs. This all suggests a reanalysis from object
experiencer to subject experiencer verb.
Table 6.3 summarizes the most obvious changes from object experiencer
to subject experiencer. The table also shows there is overlap between the
uses and I will present data in section 3 showing that, in certain transition-
ary texts, a verb may be ambiguous between an experiencer subject and
experiencer object, as argued in Fischer and van der Leek (1983).
Another point of interest is that (object experiencer) verbs sometimes dis-
appear. Table 6.2 shows that please is introduced in 1350 as an object expe-
riencer verb. We might expect it to become a subject experiencer but that
has not happened.1
At the moment, however, there is a loss of this verb, as
Figure 6.2 shows for the last 20 years of instances of the verb please in the
Corpus of Contemporary American English (COCA) and Figure 6.3 for the
last 200 years in Corpus of Historical American English (COHA).
The numbers in Figure 6.2 show that, in the period between 1990 and
2015, the occurrence of the object experiencer verb to please goes down
from over 17 per million words to over 13 per million. The same loss is
confirmed by looking at COHA, which gives data for a 200-year period.
The change is unusual in that the spoken register lags behind and that the
COHA is also behind. I am not sure what to say about that.
Psych-Verbs 149
Other searches for object experiencer verbs indicate a lot of fluctuation;
e.g. the use of worry is increasing, that of anger is up and down, and amuse
is more like please in showing a decrease. This fluctuation and loss of the
use of certain object experiencer verbs may be due to the same reason as the
reanalysis, namely that object experiencers are hard to acquire. I discuss this
point more in section 7.
Figure 6.3  Decrease in use of the verb please in COHA, absolute and per million2
Figure 6.2 
Decrease of the verb please (please*_v*) in COCA, absolute and per
million
150  Psych-Verbs
Having provided some data to show that psych-verbs, in particular object
experiencer ones, are quite unstable, in 3.2 I elaborate on some earlier
thoughts on the reanalysis of object experiencer verbs. In the last section,
I provide some reasons for their instability.
3.2  Types of Psych-Verbs
Psych-verbs, as mentioned earlier, express psychological states and involve
an Experiencer thematic role rather than an Agent. This Experiencer may
act like the grammatical subject of the sentence but need not. In the latter
case, the sentence may lack a referential subject and we use the term imper-
sonal (Malchukov and Siewierska 2011). Impersonal verbs, psych-verbs
included, have been the subject of discussion in much historical work, e.g.
van der Gaaf (1904), Jespersen (1909–1949), Lightfoot (1979), Fischer and
van der Leek (1983), Allen (1995), and Möhlig-Falke (2012), to name but
a few.
Many have argued that the demise of impersonal verbs occurred due to
case syncretism. However, Fischer and van der Leek (1983) argue that this
cannot be so due to the presence of texts that have verbs with both mean-
ings, and Allen (1995) shows that the use of Experiencer objects continues
well after the time that case was lost; some verbs are even introduced with
an Experiencer as subject after the loss of case, showing the construction
was alive then. The same continuation is obvious from work by Miura
(2011) and others.
The division in experiencer verbs that Allen (1995) adopts for Old Eng-
lish is the threefold one of Elmer (1981). In that system, constructions, as in
(6), with a dative Experiencer and nominative Theme or Causer are labeled
I, and those with dative or accusative Experiencer and genitive Theme are
labeled N, with an example in (7). An example of a nominative experiencer
and genitive theme is given in (8) and is referred to as II.
(6) Þa bodan us færdon Type I
the messengers us frightened
NOM-Theme DAT-Exp
‘The messengers frightened us.’ (OED, Ælfric Deut i. 28)
(7) oððaet him wlatode þaere gewilnunge Type N
until him nauseated that desire
DAT/ACC-Exp GEN-Theme
‘until he was nauseated of the desire.’
(from Allen 1995: 70, Ælfric Homilies 21.89)
Psych-Verbs 151
(8) He him ondræt his deaþ-es Type II
he REFL fears his death-GEN
NOM-Exp GEN-Theme
‘He fears his death.’ (Ælfric Hom Skeat i, 12, 87)
A list of the three types of verbs can be found in Table 6.4 and they show
overlapping, indicating the classes are relatively fluid. The main distinction
in grammatical structure is of course between those that have a nominative
Theme (I) and those that have a nominative Experiencer (II). Aspectually,
the groups can be split into a telic set (I and N) and a stative one (II).
Of these, ail, dread, like, loathe, yearn, long, and shame are still in use
but like and loathe have changed from class I to II and long from N to II.
Shame is complex; see below. Hate is not listed in this set but it is of type II,
as (9) shows.
(9) Doð þæm wel þe eow ær hatedon.
do those well that you earlier hated
‘Do well to those who formerly hated you.’
(OED, c897 Ælfred Pastoral Care xxxiii. 222)
As mentioned, the types overlap. For instance, the verb færan ‘frighten’ may
already be N. Type N is Experiencer-initial (Allen 1995: 104) and never
has a dummy hit. This suggests the Experiencer is a subject. Type I has the
Table 6.4 
The three types of impersonal verbs, based on Elmer (1981: 69; 72) and
Allen (1995: 71; 75) and additional sources
I N II
DAT Exp DAT/ACC Exp NOM Exp
sceamian ‘shame’ sceamian ‘cause/feel shame’ sceamian ‘shame’
(ge/of)hreowan ‘distress’ ofhreowan ‘pity’ hreowan ‘pity’
eglian ‘ail’ wlatian ‘nauseate/be nauseated’ reccan ‘care’
Þyncan ‘seem, think’ Þyncan ‘seem, think’ þyncan ‘seem,
think’giernan ‘yearn’
ofþyncan ‘displease’ ofþyncan ‘regret’ wilnian ‘desire’
(ge)lician ‘please’ lystan ‘desire’ behofian ‘need’
oflician ‘displease’ langian ‘long for’ ondrædan ‘fear’
mislician ‘displease’ (ge)spowan ‘cause/feel success at’
laþian ‘loathe’ tweonian ‘cause/feel doubt at’
losian ‘lose’ tweogan ‘cause/feel doubt at’
færan ‘frighten’
152  Psych-Verbs
Experiencer first when it is a pronoun but overall Experiencers are “more
likely to follow . . . the Theme” (Allen 1995: 109). A few of these verbs
alternate, at least in the entries and examples in Bosworth and Toller; e.g.
sceamian, wlatian, spowan, tweogan, and tweonian can have Experiencer
objects and subjects. All of these die out except shame, which still has a
Causer meaning, as in She shamed him.
In the next section, my focus will be on one verb and the various changes
that affect it. I agree with Allen and others that the loss of case is not the
reason behind this change because these verbs continue to be used long after
the case on nouns is lost (around 1200, depending on the dialect). Instead,
I attribute it to a change in the set of light verbs due to a loss of the mor-
phological causative.
4  Fear: From Object to Subject Experiencer Verb
In this section, I provide data that show the change that the verb fear under-
goes from Old to Middle to Modern English. I then look at some interesting
characteristics of both the disappearing object experiencer construction and
of the innovative subject experiencer one. These observations will be used
for the analysis in section 5.
4.1  From ‘Frighten’ to ‘Fear’
In Table 4.4, we saw the unaccusative aforhtian ‘be afraid’ and the causa-
tive afyrhtian ‘frighten’, which are based on the adjective forth ‘fearful’. The
verb afyrhtian develops into frighten via the noun fright but not directly and
I therefore focus on the verb færan ‘frighten’ instead, which develops from
the noun fær ‘fear’.
From Old English until the late 14th century, the verb (a)færan means ‘to
frighten’; see (10). Bosworth and Toller considers the -ed form in (10c) a
passive participle and that confirms that it is a causative verb with a Theme
that is passivized, i.e. Type I of the previous section. The OED confirms that
the adjective afraid is formed from the verb affray ‘frighten’, which was bor-
rowed much later from French.
(10)	a.	Þa	 bodan	 us	 færdon	=ExpObj
		those	messengers	us	frightened
		 ‘The messengers frightened us.’ (OED, Ælfric Deut i. 28)
b.	ðæt he ða	 eaðmodan mid ðy	 to swiðe	 ne fære
		 that he those-ACC  humble with that   too much  not frighten
		 ‘that he doesn’t frighten the humble too much through it.’
		 (B&T, Suppl, Pastoral Care 453.18–19)
Psych-Verbs 153
c.	 Ne	 beo	 ðu	 afæred.
		not	 be	 you	 frightened
		 ‘Don’t be frightened.’ (DOE, Ælfric Homilies, Godden 199.11)
In the Middle English Dictionary, the entry for feren has both meanings
‘to frighten’ and ‘to fear (respect)’. I provide all instances of these two mean-
ings from the MED in (11) and (12) respectively. The second meaning is not
attested before the end of the 14th century. Note that in all cases, the Causer
in (11) is human (or the devil) and the perfect auxiliary is have in (11dg). As
mentioned in section 2, some scholars argue that object experiencers are sta-
tive or telic, but the ones in (11) are definitely telic so there is a real change
in aspect from (11) to (12).
(11)	a.	He wile himm færenn 3iff he ma33.
	 ‘He wants to frighten him if he can.’
	 (MED, c1200 Orm. Jun 1 675)
b.	Alle these fereden vs [WB(2): maden vs aferd].
	 ‘all these frightened us.’
	 (MED, a1382 WBible(1) Dc 369(1) 2 Esd.6.9)
c.	
Þe lords . . . bere whippes in hir hondes and so fered þe cherles, and
droof hem away.
	 ‘ . . . and so frightened the churls and drove them away.’
	 (MED, a1387 Trev. Higd.(StJ-C H.1) 1.139)
d.	Leue son, why hastou fered vs?
	 ‘Dear son why have you frightened us?’ (MED, a1400 Cursor
Trin.12622)
e.	 Þe fend moveþ þes debletis to fere Cristene [men] fro treuþe.
	 ‘The enemy moves these devils to frighten Christian men from the
truth.’
	 (MED, a1425 Wycl.Serm. Bod 788 2.328)
f.	 Thus he shal yow with his wordes fere.
	 ‘Thus, he’ll frighten you with his words.’ (MED, Chaucer TC 4.1483)
g.	Many tymes haue I feryd þe wyth gret tempestys of wyndys.
	 ‘Many times have I frightened you with great wind storms.’
	 (MED, a1438 MKempe A (Add 61823) 51/24)
154  Psych-Verbs
h.	and þat þei feere hym fro vicis.
	 ‘and that they frightened him from vice.’ (MED, c1443 Pecock Rule
320)
i.	 For to feare hym sir Dynadan seyde hit was sir Launcelot.
	 ‘Because, to frighten him, Sir Dynadan said it was Sir Lancelot.’
	 (MED, a1470 Malory Wks.Win-C 587/11)
j.	
In her hondys thei bare yrone speyruse, The fereful soule to feyre
and enchase.
	 ‘In their hands, they had iron . . . to frighten the fearful soul and to
chase it.’ (MED, a1475 VPhilibert Brog 2.1 p. 33)
(12)	a.	And that schold every wys man fere.
	 ‘And that should every wise man fear.’
	 (MED, a1393 Gower CA Frf 3 2.578)
b.	Men feeren hem in al the toun Welmore than thei don of thonder.
	 ‘Men fear them in the entire town of Welmore (more) than they do
thunder.’ (MED, a1393 Gower CA Frf 3 3.454)
c.	 Fele ferde for þe freke(z), lest felle hym þe worre.
	 ‘Many feared for the man lest the worst happened to him.’
	 (MED, c1390 Gawain Nero A.10 1588)
d.	Þou schalt nat fere For to be kyng of this regioun.
	 ‘You shall not be afraid to be king of this region.’
	 (MED, c1425 Lydg. TB Aug A.4 1.502)
e.	 Þan Vlixes . . . of his lyf feerd.
	 ‘Then Ulysses feared for his life.’
	 (MED, c1540/a1400 Destr.Troy Htrn 388 13842)
f.	 Alle that company fere I ryth nouth.
	 ‘All that group I fear not at all.’
	 (MED, a1475 Ludus C.Vsp D.8 369/394)
g.	I fere me þat I shuld stond in drede.
	 ‘I fear that I shall stand in dread.’
	 (MED, a1500 Play Sacr. Dub 652 218)
Psych-Verbs 155
A few other points are worth noting: (a) there is overlap between the two
meanings in the same period (see Table 6.3) and therefore the possibility for
reanalysis exists; (b) the causative paraphrase appears in another version of
(11b) and this is not unusual; (c) the mention of a result in (11c), (11e), and
(11h) and an instrument in (11f) and (11g); and (d) the use of a reflexive in
(12b) and (12g). I’ll discuss all four of these details now, starting with the
causative.
4.2  Object Experiencers Are Causatives
In section 2, it was mentioned that object experiencers involve causative
structures and that they are marked with an overt causative morpheme in
some languages. Aspectually, that means they are tied to telicity. In this
section, I show that this is true in Old English too and, as we know from
chapter 4, the causative morpheme was on its way out in this period.
A verb with the meaning ‘to frighten’ has an inherent causative mean-
ing. According to the OED, the Old English verb fǽran ‘frighten’ has its
origin in a causative form *fæ̂rjan, a weak verb ‘to terrify’ that derives from
the noun fæ̂r ‘fear, danger’. Garcia Garcia’s (2012) set of causatives in Old
­
English includes several psych-verbs and they are all object experiencer
verbs: a-hwænan ‘vex, afflict’, gremman ‘enrage’, a-bylgan ‘anger’, swen-
can ‘harass’, a-þrytan ‘weary’, wægan ‘vex’, and wyrdan ‘annoy’. They are
listed in Table 6.5 with their intransitive counterparts, if I could find one,
taken from B&T. Some are already labile.
As I argue in chapters 3 and 4, by the time of Old English, phonological
processes have made the affix mostly invisible and all that’s left is an effect
on the stem vowel (as is still the case in Modern English intransitive fall, sit,
and lie and causative fell, set, and lay).
For a while, there is a replacement of the causative in the prefix en-, which
is extremely popular, but many subsequently die out, e.g. enfear and enhon-
nie in (13).
Table 6.5 Alternating psych-verbs
Intransitive Causative
Subject Experiencer Object Experiencer
a-hwænan ‘vex, afflict’
gremmetan ‘rage’ gremman ‘enrage’
belgan ‘be/become angry’ a-bylgan ‘anger’
swincan ‘be troubled’ swencan ‘harass’
a-þrytan/þritan ‘weary’
(ge)wægan ‘vex, harass’
wyrdan ‘annoy’ (gewyrdan ‘to hurt’)
156  Psych-Verbs
(13)	a.	A womans looke his hart enfeares.
	 ‘A woman’s look frightens his heart.’
	 (OED, 1608 Sylvester Deuine Weekes & Wks.)
b.	To enhonnie and allure vs to these opinions.
	 ‘To sweeten us and attract us to these opinions.’
	 (OED, 1603 Florio tr. Montaigne Ess. ii. xii. 299)
So, the loss of the morphological causative that we saw in chapters 3 and 4
has an effect on psych-verbs, especially object experiencers. Because they are
causative, they are reinforced by the light verb do and the prefix en-.
4.3  The Result and Instrument
Now let’s turn to the goal or instrument being very frequent in (9) above.
Other such examples are (14), and the verb fear also occurs together with
particles, as in (15).
(14)	 Hou anticrist & his clerkis feren trewe prestis fro prechynge of cristis
gospel.
	 ‘How the antichrist and his clerks frighten true priests from preaching
Christ’s gospel.’ (OEDc1380 Wyclif Works Speculum de Antichristo)
(15)	a.	Fere away the euyll bestes.
	 ‘Frighten the evil animals away.’
	 (OED, 1504 Atkinson tr. Ful Treat. Imytacyon Cryste (Pynson) iii.
xxvii)
b.	If there were nothing else to feare them away from this play.
	 (OED, 1577 Northbrooke Spiritus est Vicarius Christi: Treat. Dic-
ing 93)
Having a goal or instrument accompany a causative, such as fear, reinforces
the telicity typical of a causative. It may be that the aspect connected to the
root is no longer clear or is being reanalyzed as non-telic and that therefore an
overt result is necessary. I will come back to this point in my analysis in 4.5.
4.4  Reflexives Causing Ambiguity
There are early cases with ambiguity, as in (16), depending on whether the
postverbal pronoun is seen as a reflexive or not. Thus, it is not clear whether
Psych-Verbs 157
(16a) means ‘I frighten myself that . . .’ or ‘I fear that . . .’ These ambiguous
sentences occur mainly when the Cause or Theme is clausal and sentence-
final, as in (16), but also without these, as in (17).
(16)	a.	I fere me ye haue made a rodde for your self.
	 ‘I fear/frightened myself you have made a rod for yourself.’
	 (OED s.v. rod1485 Malory’s Morte Darthur (Caxton) v. ii. sig.
hviiiv
)
b.	I feared me alwayes that it wolde be so.
	 ‘I always fear/frightened myself that it would be so.’
	 (OED, 1530 Palsgrave, Lesclarcissement 547/2)
c.	 I feare me he is slaine.
	 ‘I fear/frightened myself that he is slain.’
	 (OED, a1593 Marlowe Edward II (1594) sig. E3v)
(17)	a.	my brother, I fere me, for yow.
	 ‘My brother, I fear/frightened myself for you.’
	 (Helsinki Corpus, Mankind, 162)
b.	“A, dowtyr,” seyd owyr Lord, “fere þe nowt. . .
	 ‘Oh daughter, said our Lord, fear not/frighten yourself not.’
	 (Helsinki Corpus, Margery Kempe, chap 21)
c.	 ‘feare you not,’ quoth these stout wemen.
	 ‘Fear not/frighten yourselves not, said these proud women.’
	 (Helsinki Corpus, Thomas Harman, 71)
The same text may have a causative with object experiencer as well as a
reflexive with subject experiencer, as (18a) and (18b) show respectively.
(18)	a.	
Thou wenyste that the syght of tho honged knyghtes shulde feare me?
	 ‘You thought that the sight of those hanged knights should frighten
me?’
	 (MED, a1470 Malory Wks.Win-C 322/17)
b.	
‘Sir,’ seyd sir Dynadan . . . ‘I feare me that sir Palomydes may nat
yett travayle.’
158  Psych-Verbs
	 ‘ “Sir,” said Sir Dynadan, “I fear that Sir Palomydes cannot yet travel.” ’
	 (MED, a1470 Malory Wks.Win-C 606/17)
By the end of the 16th century, the experiencer object with fear is lost, as
in (19).
(19)	 He that but feares the thing hee would not know, Hath . . . knowledge
from others eies, That what he feard is chanced. (1600 Shakespeare
Henry IV.2 i. i. 87)
I’ll now turn to a possible account for the loss of the experiencer object.
4.5  The Loss of the Causative Morpheme
I will now turn to the analysis of experiencer verbs and the reason for the
change of the Experiencer from the grammatical role of object to that of
subject. I argue that the loss of the morphological causative, as outlined in
3.2, makes the construction less transparent. In addition to the intransper-
ancy, there are other reasons for the reanalysis away from the causative.
(a) Experiencers are difficult to understand low in the VP since they do
not undergo a change like a Theme does. (b) The Thematic Hierarchy is in
conflict with an Animacy Hierarchy because the more animate Experiencer
is lower than the (possibly) less animate Causer. Thus, several factors con-
spire: loss of morphology and third factor principles such as the Animacy
Hierarchy.
First, I’ll provide an analysis of the changes. The causative, Old
­
English object Experiencer is given in (20); the one that is reinforced by
a telic adverb is given in (21). The difference is the telic feature, which
is on the adverb in (21), and the light verb, which is no longer overtly
marked.
Psych-Verbs 159
A structure for the subject Experiencer appears in (22), where fear has
the same lack of aspectual properties as in (21) and where the Animacy
Hierarchy is adhered to.
After the morphological causative weakens during Old English, other
light verbs occupy that space, e.g. do, make, put, -ify, -ate, -en, and en-, as
shown in (13). There is also an increased use of the instrument in (14) and
result in (15) that helps to emphasize the change of state typical of the caus-
ative that is losing its marking. The light verbs, however, are highly various
as well, as e.g. Clancy (2009) has shown. Thus, do could mean ‘give, make,
let, put’ in one early Middle English text. This multifunctionality points to
a situation where the contents of v are unclear and reanalysis can occur.
Another indication of ambiguity is the use of the reflexives.
160  Psych-Verbs
Cross-linguistically, reflexives are often affixed to the verb and bring about
changes in valency and aspect. For instance, in Romance, reflexives mark
inchoativity and what were earlier reflexives in Scandinavian are now used
as passives. In Italian dialects, reflexives are variable in triggering ‘have’ or
‘be’ auxiliaries, indicating a role in valency. I will therefore argue that reflex-
ives are ambiguous between phrase- and head-status. The reflexive Experi-
encer in (16b) can be analyzed as in (23), where feared moves to little v, now
occupied by the reflexive. The v is ambiguous between stative and durative
aspect, and the new meaning triggered is the former.
Sentences such as (17b) have a similarly ambiguous tree, as shown in (24).
Psych-Verbs 161
The latter stage enables a reanalysis from the causal ‘frighten’ to ‘fear’,
with a structure as in (25).
Having described the changes in the argument structure, possibly started
by the loss of the causative, the question arises why this happens. I have
given a few suggestions and will return to this in section 8. I first turn to
some other changes.
5  Renewal of Experiencer Object Verbs
Interestingly, it turns out that many of the current object experiencer
verbs are loans from after the Old English period; e.g. anger is a loan
from Old Norse. Another source for renewal is through internal change
and, in some cases, this use is quite recent; e.g. worry has the meaning
of ‘kill’ in Old English and only appears with the meaning of ‘to vex’ in
the 19th century. This use remains in certain varieties of English where
‘dogs can worry sheep’ by biting their throats or can hold on to things in a
persistent manner. Table 6.6 provides a few of the sources of renewal. As
their dates of first occurrence show, this renewal is constant. One would
expect these to arise for human Causers but that is not always the case,
as we’ll see.
I will focus on the verbs that undergo internal change. Haspelmath
(2001: 79) suggests that the reason for renewal of the object experiencer is
that verbs change from concrete to abstract; e.g. fascinate and stun originally
mean ‘to bewitch’ and ‘to deprive of consciousness or of power of motion
by a blow’, respectively. In the pre-object experiencer meaning, these verbs
have Agent or Causer subjects, as (26) and (27) show, but the verbs develop
162  Psych-Verbs
Table 6.6  Some examples of renewal of object experiencer verbs
First occurrence Source
anger, scare 1200 Old Norse
grieve 1330 French
please 1350 Anglo-Norman
astonish 1375 Unclear
irritate 1531 Latin
frighten 1666 internal change
stun 1700 internal change
madden 1726 internal change
bore 1768 internal change
worry 1807 internal change
experiential meanings, as shown in (28) and (29). The argument structure
of the two verbs has changed from Agent (or Causer) and Theme to Theme
(or Causer) and Experiencer.
(26)	 a.	They kill it [a fish] by first stunning it with a knock with a mallet.
	 (OED 1662 J. Davies tr. A. Olearius Voy & Trav. Ambassadors 165)
b.	
The ball, which had been nearly spent before it struck him, had
stunned instead of killing him. (OED 1837 Irving Capt. Bonneville
I. 271)
(27)	 Why doe Witches and old women, fascinate and bewitch children?
(OED 1621 R. Burton Anat Melancholy i. ii. iii. ii. 127)
(28)	 a.	
it was of that vastnesse, it would . . . stun the Beliefe of one of
our . . . Rich Misers. (OED 1654, Whitlock Ζωοτομία 400, Salo-
mons Wealth)
b.	
You shall sometimes see him gather a Crowd round him . . . and
stun the People with a senseless Story of an Injury that is done him.
(OED 1714 E. Budgell tr. Theophrastus Moral Characters vi. 22)
c.	
I thought I knew a lot about entomophagy around the world, but
this book stunned me. (www.menzelphoto.com/books/meb.php)
(29)	 Purple eggs . . . fascinated her
Considering the work by Levin and Grafmiller discussed in section 2, we
might expect these verbs to arise to accommodate human Causers. How-
ever, looking at (28ac) and (29), that is certainly not the case. Checking this
more systematically in COHA, from 1815 to 1875, there are 59 instances of
the verb stun with the meanings as in Table 6.7 but no clear preference for
an animate/human Agent/Causer is found.
Psych-Verbs 163
What I will suggest in section 8 instead is that the frequent inanimate
subjects with stun violate the Animacy Hierarchy and the Agent is therefore
‘demoted’ to Causer.
Other such verbs are worry, thrill, astonish, and grieve. The Old English
verb wergan meant ‘to kill by strangling/compressing the throat’ in Old
and Middle English, as in (30), with an Agent and Theme and is reana-
lyzed as a verb with an Agent and an object experiencer. The verb thrill
meant ‘to pierce’, as in (31), and is similarly later changed into an object
experiencer.
(30)	 Haral . . . threwe hym to the grounde and had wyried hym with his
hondes,
	 ‘Harald threw him to the ground and strangled him with his handes.’
	 (OED 1387 Trevisa tr. R. Higden Polychron. VII. 534)
(31)	 & scharp lance þat thrilled Ihesu side.
	 ‘and the sharp lance that pierced Jesus’ side.’
	 (OED, c1330 Mannyng Chron. 1810: 30)
The verb astonish has an earlier variant aston(i)e, as in (32a), of which the
OED says, “Perhaps the ending is due to Old French past participle estoné”,
but which Morris (1866: 286) says is from Old English stunian ‘to strike’,
and (32b) seems to confirm that. There are early instances that are already
ambiguous, as given in (32c).
(32)	a.	Hou it ssolde ous ssende and astonie.
	 ‘How it should destroy and stun us.’ (OED 1340, Ayenbite (1866) 126)
b.	
The one smote the king upon the head, the other astonished his
shoulder.
	 ‘The one struck the kong on the head; the other struck his shoulder.’
	 (OED 1600, Holland tr. Livy Rom. Hist. xlii. xv. 1124)
Table 6.7  The meanings and preferences of stun in 19th-century COHA
Human Agent/Causer (In)animate Agent/Causer
physical blow 10 18
physical sound 7 14
mental surprise 5 5
total 22 37
164  Psych-Verbs
c.	 Þes wordis astonyeden hem.
	 ‘These words astonished them.’
	 (OED, c1375, Wycliffite Serm. in Sel. Wks. 1871: II. 113)
The verb grieve was borrowed from French with the meaning of ‘to burden,
harass’, as (33) shows, and as an Experiencer object use appears in (34).
(33)	a.	Clerkes . . . he greuede manion.
	 ‘Clergymen . . . he harassed many a one.’
	 (OED, 1297 Gloucester’s Chron. 11815)
b.	Moche thei greved the hethen peple with alle theire power.
	 ‘Much they harassed the heathens with all their power.’
	 (OED, a1500 Merlin (1899) xii. 186)
(34)	 Our fredom that day for euer toke þe leue, For Harald it went away,
his falshed did vs greue.
	 ‘That day, our freedom forever took leave, because of Harald it went
away. His falsehood grieved us.’
	 (OED, c1330 Mannyng Chron. (1810) 71)
The changes are very gradual. For instance, uses of worry and grieve with
the meanings of ‘strangle’ and ‘do bodily harm’, respectively, occur till the
19th century, as in (35) and (36), although figurative uses occur early on,
e.g. (37).
(35)	 She bit me. . . . She worried me like a tigress.
	 (OED, 1847 Brontë Jane Eyre II v 124)
(36)	 The graceful foliage storms may reave, The noble stem they cannot
grieve.
	 (OED, 1810 Scott Lady of Lake ii. 57)
(37)	 hou faste þe woluys of helle wirien cristen soulis.
	 ‘how firmly the wolves of hell worry Christian souls.’
	 (OED, c1380 Wyclif Wks. 1880: 24)
In short, object Experiencers are indeed reanalyzed as subject Experiencers
and new object experiencer verbs arise through the reanalysis of the Theme
as an Experiencer. This occurs because a physically affected object can be
seen as mentally affected too, as explained in Ruwet (1972: 234), Bouchard
(1995), and Arad (1998). A representation of the changes is given in (38).
Psych-Verbs 165
This is a major change in two respects: the overt Theme is lost and the
aspect connected to the root shifts in (38b). In the case of the causative
frighten in (5a), I accounted for the lack of a Theme by saying that the root
fright could only be verbalized, not remain a Theme as well, and that could
be extended to (38b). The question of the reanalysis of the root from dura-
tive to telic is possibly due to a change in the syntactic environment.
The change from durative to telic might be expected to show an increased
use of the past and perfect over the progressive aspect. That is indeed the
case with stun, which changes in the 19th century, and displays more -ed
endings than progressive -ing ones. In the COHA, for the period that the
change from (38a) to (38b) is taking place, i.e. from 1800 to the present,
there are 95 instances of the verb stun with the durative -ing, as in (26a)
above, but 3,084 of the passive/resultative or perfective stunned, as in (39).
(39)	 that it has stunned us like the shock of an earthquake (COHA, 1829, NF)
This means that the durative verb in (38a) is coerced into the telic one of
(38b) by the outer, perfective aspect. The COHA data show no difference
where the addition of a result phrase is concerned between the two types.
The use of Experiencer objects with astonish, as shown in (32), appears
around the same time as the Experiencer subject in (40), according to the
MED (s.v. (a)stonen). Comparing the tense of the two in the examples of
stonen given by the MED, there appears to be some difference: with the
Experiencer subject, there is one progressive -ende, as in (40a), five presents,
as in (40b), three pasts, and three irrealis as opposed to, with the Experi-
encer object, no progressives, two presents, six pasts, as in (41), and five
irrealis.
(40)	 a.	
whan thei hadden seen hir, stone|ȝende merueileden ful miche the
fairnesse of hir
	 when they had seen her astonishing marveled very much the fair-
ness of her
166  Psych-Verbs
	 ‘When they had seen her, (they were) wondering and marveling very
much at her fairness.’ (MED, Wycliff, Judith 10.7)
b.	Riȝtwise men shul stoneȝen vp on þat.
	 Rightful men should be astonished at that. (MED, Wycliff, Job 17.8)
(41)	 He stonyed me and made me stunt Stille out of my steuene.
	 ‘He astonished me and made me silent in voice.’
	 (MED, c1390 Treat. Mass 350)
The progressive and present are more frequent with Experiencer subjects
while the past is with Experiencer objects. This is a sign of coercion.
With the verb greven, there are also many ambiguities between causing
physical and mental harm, as between (42) and (43), but there is not much
difference in tense. There is no Experiencer subject use here.
(42)	 And yet ne greueth me no thyng so soore As that this olde cherl
‘And yet no thing grieves me so much as that old man.’ (MED, Chau-
cer, CT)
(43)	 Noght greueth vs youre glorie and youre honour
‘Your glory and honor do not grieve us.’
(MED, Chaucer CT)
The Middle English verb wirien ‘slay, annoy, suffocate’, as shown in (30),
derives from the Old English wirgan, which remains the only use in Shake-
speare. The MED’s only example of the Experiencer object with the mean-
ing of ‘to annoy’ is (44), which happens to be past.
(44)	 The Steward is a couetouse man, þat longe hath desirid A knyff I have
in kepeing, wher with his hert I wirid.
‘The steward is a jealous man who has long desired a knife that I have
with which I annoyed his heart.’ (MED, Beryn 2246)
Even up to the 1800s, in the COHA, there remains a meaning of physical
threat. Here, we also find many Experiencer subjects, many with -ing and
reflexives, as in (45).
(45)	 don’t be worrying yeselves, about me. (COHA fiction 1823)
It fits that that the Experiencer subject is later but it has not taken over
because of a marking of the Theme by a preposition.
Finally, the verb thrill appears in the early 15th century in the non-physi-
cal use, initially as of a sound, as in (46), and later as being affected mentally
(by fear), as in (47).
Psych-Verbs 167
(46)	 Þi word thrillit myn ere.
‘Your word pierces my ear.’
(OED, c1480 St. John Baptist 131 in Legends Saints Sc. Dial. II. 2260)
(47)	 Art thou not horribly afraid? doth not thy bloud thril at it (OED,
Shakespeare, Henry IV.1, ii. v. 273)
The early, unaccusative meaning predominates till the late 19th century, as
(48) shows. By the end of the 20th century, the meaning in (49) dominates
and the Causer is more frequently animate, as in (49c), whereas it is music,
beauty, or sound in the century before, as (49a) shows. I have provided
more data on this difference in Table 6.8.
(48)	 a.	The answer thrilled through the whole garrison like electricity
(COHA fiction 1822)
b.	As it spoke, the accents thrilled to my heart. (COHA fiction 1827)
c.	
Bless me, how I used to thrill at sight of her, with love, with fear.
(COHA fiction 1895)
(49)	 a.	
a sense of joy, too great Almost for speech, thrills earnest souls
(COHA poems 1892)
b.	One thing that thrills me is the book has sold close to a million cop-
ies. (COHA news 2006)
c.	Photograph Superstar Mary J. Blige thrills fans in recent concert
(COHA magazine 2000)
As the physical meaning decreases, so does the number of uses, as expected
of object Experiencers. Looking at tense and aspect, the differences between
all pasts and all presents after 1980 are not significant (at p < .05, X2
.2012,
p value .65375).
The verb choke is currently undergoing a gradual shift from physical to
mental (Ann Buckley p.c.). The first ambiguous occurrences start in the
1920s, according to COHA, as in The air of this place chokes me, but it can
be extended to other Causers, e.g. idea.
Table 6.8 The psych-verb thrills in COHA (two first columns) and spoken COCA
(last column)
1890–1900 1980–2010 1990–2015
thrills
human Causer 0 4 5
inanimate Causer 29 18 18
thrilled
human Causer 1 8 7
inanimate Causer 105 65 9
168  Psych-Verbs
Section 5 has discussed the renewal of object experiencer verbs. Some of
the verbs are borrowed but those that are internal developments show an
aspectual shift. The outer aspect may have helped the change with stun and
astonish, an issue we return to in chapter 9.
6  From Experiencer to Agent?
The last change to look at is one that is currently attracting some attention,
namely that the progressive -ing is being used with statives, as in (50) and (51).
(50)	 a.	the skiers are loving this—about a foot of snow for you.
	 (COCA Spoken 2009)
b.	You know, I really am loving producing films, television, and stage.
	 (COCA Spoken 2013)
(51)	 a.	
I’ve been going around, and I am liking what I see in the classrooms
	 (COCA Spoken 2002)
b.	So how’s he liking his new single status? (COCA Magazine 2012)
c.	I don’t know that an anti-Gingrich or Romney or Obama group
on Facebook that has a lot of people liking it is going to have a big
impact on the campaign, but this is how people organize themselves
these days online. (COCA Spoken 2012)
This change can be due to two causes: (a) a change of the inner aspect from
stative to durative aspect and from Experiencer (subject) to Agent (subject),
or (b) a change of the progressive to mark imperfective. As I will discuss
further in chapter 9, it is more likely that the nature of -ing is changing, from
progressive to imperfective, which is a broader category. In this chapter,
I will just provide some data on this change.
The COCA corpus has over a thousand instances of liking as a verb, with
most instances in fiction. Many of these are complements to auxiliaries such
as keep on, stop, and end up, as in (52), and are still stative.
(52)	she ended up liking it more than maybe she would have thought.
	 (COCA Spoken 2012)
Looking at the auxiliary be followed by the verb liking, there is a steady set
of such examples, e.g. six instances in 2011 in the spoken portion of COCA,
namely those given in (53).
(53)	 a.	Exactly. I want—I’m liking Geoffrey Rush. (COCA NBC Today)
b.	That’s how much women of a certain age, like us, are liking it. So
let’s watch. (COCA NBC Today)
Psych-Verbs 169
c.	He s having some breakfast. RUSS-MITCHELL: Ah, he s liking
that. (COCA CBS)
d.	If the Democrats are liking Medi-scare and nine percent unemploy-
ment, one percent economic expansion, and huge debt . . . (COCA
Fox)
e.	WILLIAMS: I’m liking it. Thanks very much. (COCA NBC
RockCenter)
f.	I whip my hair back and forth. You know and so he’s liking it
(COCA CNN Morgan)
There are 13 similar examples of be with loving for the same year, given
in (54).
(54)	 a.	The Steelers are loving it. (COCA NBC Today)
b.	So we recommend, lately we’ve been loving broccoli rabe, which is
higher in iron and calcium than regular broccoli . . . (COCA NBC
Today)
c.	Yes. I think we’re loving it. I mean all eyes are on London at the
moment and, you . . . (COCA CBS Early)
d.	Yeah. It’s only in New Orleans. I’m loving it. With meals like this,
it’s hard to imagine anyone being able (COCA CBS Early)
e.	 Oh, I’m loving this. (LAUGHTER) (COCA STOSSEL)
f.	 I was loving it. I mean, I was sort of in a weird place in my. . . (COCA
ABC 20/20)
g.	 and asking them to wrestle, you know. They’re loving this. (COCA
CNN Behar)
h.	actually, we—this is our first week (unintelligible), and I’m loving
every minute of it. (COCA NPR ATC)
i.	 No, I—but keep going, I’m loving it. CLARKSON: Oh. OK, it’s
coming up, the chorus, (COCA NBC Today)
j.	 Carolina, sunny sky, seventy-three with the light breeze. Oh, you’re
loving it. Why? High pressure here. . . (COCA CBS Early)
k.	I hope you like cranberry. Good. . . . Yeah, I’m loving this right
now. (COCA CBS Early)
l.	 Even now you’re loving every second of that, aren’t you? Be honest.
(COCA CNN Morgan)
m.	and just towards the end—it had gone very well and everyone was
loving it. (COCA CNN Morgan)
170  Psych-Verbs
Apart from like and love, are other subject experiencer verbs undergoing
this change? Fear and know are, as (55) and (56) show. These are just a few
examples.
(55)	 a.	I’ve been fearing the answers. (COCA Fiction 2007)
b.	Wall Street is fearing a bloodbath (COCA Magazine 2007)
c.	 that is what the Republicans are fearing (COCA Spoken 2015)
d.	In a sense, we have been fearing such an attack for some time.
(COCA Spoken 2015)
e.	 You’re always fearing change. (COCA Spoken 2015)
(56)	 a.	we’ve  been  knowing this stuff has been going on in the NFL.
(COCA Spoken 2005)
b.	And so everybody in town was knowing that this was happening.
(COCA Spoken 2009)
c.	 Well, I’ve been knowing Ross ever since he was about 11. (COCA
Spoken 2014)
Frequently used diagnostics to determine if arguments are Agents or Expe-
riencers are the use of deliberately with Agents, personally with Experienc-
ers, and -er with Agents. Neither deliberately nor the -er occur with fear
yet, which means the reanalysis isn’t complete. Structurally, when Experi-
encers are reanalyzed as Agents, the change from (57a) to (57b) happens.
There is a ‘promotion’ of the Experiencer due to the loss of the stative
character of fear.
Psych-Verbs 171
Anecdotally, the fast food advertisement I’m lovin’ it is seen as responsi-
ble for the rise of this phrase as well as the phenomenon of Facebook, where
people are urged to ‘like’ certain stories, as in (51c). Wikipedia (https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/McDonald%27s_advertising) writes that the fast
food slogan was created by Heye and Partner (in Germany and originally as
ich liebe es because German lacks a progressive). The slogan was launched
in English (and German) in 2003. If external influence is responsible for
this change, we should see an increase in this use after 2003 in COCA and
there is a little bit, with spoken registers ahead of others: see Figure 6.4. This
area needs more research but it is very likely that such a change, once used
frequently, tips over the basic aspect of a verb.
The change discussed in this section, i.e. the introduction of sentences
such as (50) and (51), is not complete and may not continue. As mentioned,
there are two possible reasons for it: (a) the progressive may be taking over
the imperfective, as I’ll entertain in chapter 9, or (b) the inner aspect of these
verbs may be changing. If the latter is taking place, it involves a reanalysis
of the light verb from stative to non-stative aspect and of the Experiencer
as Agent.
7 Acquisition
Hartshorne, Pogue and Snedeker (2015) conduct experiments on the dif-
ference between the psych-verbs in English-speaking children and conclude
that Experiencer subject verbs, such as fear and love, are harder to acquire
than Experiencer object verbs, such as frighten and delight. The data from
Childes discussed here find the opposite. In this section, I discuss the use
of three subject Experiencer and three object Experiencer verbs by looking
at the entire corpus of the three children in the Brown files of the Childes
Corpus. Two of them, Adam and Sarah, have data up to 5 years of age and
Figure 6.4  Use of I’m lovin(g) in COCA (years, total number, per million)
172  Psych-Verbs
so are good for more complex verbs, such as psych-verbs, and Eve’s data
serve for earlier use.
These three children tend to use subject Experiencers. For instance, Eve,
whose language is only documented into her second year, uses want and
love with Experiencers as subject, as shown in (58). Her use of the verb hurt
is as a subject Experiencer, not as in ‘something hurts me’. Eve doesn’t use
frighten or fear.
(58)	 Eve’s use or non-use of six psych-verbs from 1;6–2;3 (Brown 1973)
love	 hate	 want
Eve love crayon 06 (1;9)	 none	 want mommy letter (01 1;6)
		 want watch (02 1;6)
		 want mommy out (02 1;6)
		 want lunch, want down
		 want mommy read (02 1;6), etc.
hurt	 scare	 anger
hurt xxx self (03, 1;7)	 none	 none
hurt knee (06 1;9)
I hurt my finger (12 1,11)
my it hurt (14 2;0)
hurt my eye (15 2;1)
I hurt (17 2;2)
I hurt my toe (17 2:2)
Adam’s data show an adult use of frighten after age 2;8 but no use of fear.
The other verbs display a preference for subject Experiencers, however, as
in (59). These data also show that it takes two years longer to master the
object Experiencer scare. There is an early use of hurt as possible object
Experiencer but all others are also subject Experiencers.
(59)	 Adam’s use or non-use of six psych-verbs from 2;3–4;10 (Brown 1973)
love	 hate	 want
Je[sus] love me	 going xxx hate (2;10.30)	 I want paper (2;03.04)
so coat (2;03.18)	 hate (2;10.30)	 want sit down (2;03.04)
I love (2;04.15)	 no others	 no no want pencil (2;04.30)
Psych-Verbs 173
I love you (2;04.15)	 etc.
etc.
hurt	 scare	 anger
hurt doggie (2;03.18)	 because he can scare the crows (3;05.29)	 wnone
hurt (2;03.18)	 nothing won’t scare me (4;10.02)
tummy hurt (2;03.18)	 try to scare me (4;10.02)
doggie’s tummy hurt (2;03.18)	 he’s trying to scare me (4;10.02)
hurt head? 02 (2;03.18)	 he’s not gonna scare me (4;10.02)
doggie hurt you (2;03.18)	 he never won’t scare me (4;10.02)
Of the third child Sarah, we have data from 2;3 to 5;1 years of age (Brown
1973). In that time, she has two object experiencer verbs hurt at 2;10 but
more of them as subject Experiencers. The object experiencer verb scare
appears after 3;7 and anger does not occur, as (60) shows.
(60)	 Sarah’s use or non-use of six psych-verbs from 2;3–5;1 (Brown 1973)
love	 hate	 want
I love horsie (2;5.7)	 I hate Christ[mas] 57 (3;4.9)	 want bag 02 (2;3.7)
I love you (2;6.13)	 I hate God 57 (3;4.9)	 I want ribbon 08 (2;4.12)
etc.	 etc.	 I want my dolly 13 (2;5.15), etc.
hurt	 scare	 anger
hurt (2;4.19 after being told “say hurt”)	 to scare me on the dark (3;7.16)	 none
I hurt again (2;9.6)	 he want to scare me (3;8.12)
dat hurt (2;10.5)	 hey you scare me (3;9.26)
hurt my finger (2;10.5)	 I will scare myself away (4;5.29)
it hurt ? (2;10.5)
my booboo hurt (2;10.20)
he hurt me (2;10.24)
you hurt my back (2;11.2), etc.
Sara, like Eve, doesn’t use fear or frighten.
In conclusion, object Experiencers are acquired one to two years later than
subject Experiencers in the data of these three English-speaking children.
This fits with their diachronic instability and frequent loss. However, Hart-
shorne, Pogue and Snedeker (2015), and others mentioned in their paper,
conclude that object Experiencers are more easily acquired.
174  Psych-Verbs
8 Conclusion
In this chapter, I have examined some changes in the meaning, aspect, and
argument structure of psych-verbs. In discussing the well-known reanalysis of
object Experiencers as subject Experiencers, I focus on the changes of the verb
færan ‘frighten’, which changes from having the telic meaning ‘to frighten’
(object Experiencer) to the stative meaning of ‘to fear’ (subject Experiencer).
I identify some factors that give us insight into the reasons behind the rea-
nalysis, e.g. the frequent strengthening of the old meaning by a causative
light verb and the use of a reflexive with the new meaning. These additions
provide evidence of a change: because the inner aspect becomes ambiguous,
light verbs, telic adverbs, and reflexives clarify a sentence’s aspect. There are
two different reasons for this preference for reanalyzing Experiencer objects
as subjects. One is based on the special status of the Theme and a second is
based on discrepancies regarding animacy that occur as a result of change.
I also examine the sources of renewal for object Experiencers. Some are
borrowed while others arise through a reanalysis of a class of verbs where
the highest theta-role is ambiguous between Agent and Causer. The Theme
is reanalyzed as Experiencer and a new object Experiencer verb arises. As
shown in Table 6.7, the causative stun frequently has its highest argument
inanimate. The change possibly happens to rearrange the inanimate sub-
ject into a Causer and the animate Theme into an Experiencer. So, in ‘a
ball stunned me’, the Theme is ‘upgraded’ to an Experiencer. If we assume
that an Animacy Hierarchy is important pre-linguistically, semantically, and
pragmatically, the Thematic Hierarchy of (2) is the grammaticalization of
this, i.e. an exaptation of the semantic Animacy Hierarchy to syntax (see
van Gelderen 2013: 82). Once in a while, there is conflict between the two
and then the latter may prevail.
A last change is the change of subject experiencer psych-verb to regular
transitive, which may currently be underway. In chapter 9, another pos-
sibility is examined, namely that the progressive is becoming an imperfect
aspect. Figure 6.5 shows all changes discussed in this chapter; it is similar to
Figure 6.1 but has the aspect added.
Figure 6.5  Changes affecting psych-verbs
Psych-Verbs 175
The use of psych-verbs in acquisition data shows that subject experiencer
verbs are acquired earlier than object ones, possibly making them more sus-
ceptible to change (although Hartshorne et al.’s data do not agree with this
conclusion). The reason can be found in Animacy Hierarchies that are incon-
gruous with Thematic Hierarchies, which the child will try to reconcile.
In this Appendix, I provide a few counterexamples to the change from
object to subject Experiencer. The first involves impress, which changes
from telic to durative, and the second the related pair of remember and
remind. Remember is a stable subject Experiencer but has an occasional,
unexpected object Experiencer; remind starts out as alternating but, unex-
pectedly, retains the object Experiencer meaning.
Impress, when first used in the late 14th century, is both a verb where
something physical makes an actual impression, as in (61), and a verb where
an idea or image makes a mental impression, as in (62). Since both are
introduced at the same time, the end of Middle English, there is no change
from (61) to (62).
(61)	 Who weares my stripes imprest vpon him.
OED, Shakespeare, Coriolanus V.6.109)
(62)	 Yn good herte it mot som rouþe impresse, To here and se þe giltless in
distresse. (OED, Chaucer, Troilus & Criseyde ii. 1322)
However, the verb has recently become intransitive, as in (63), with a dura-
tive sense, as the use of deliberately in (64) confirms. There are also progres-
sive markings, as in (65).
(63)	 Luckily, Kim’s translator-driver-and-all-round-guardian-angel, Fahim
(American actor Christopher Abbott, who recently impressed in
“James White,” assumes a questionable Afghan guise), is there to
guide her through local customs and dangerous situations.
(www.rogerebert.com/reviews/whiskey-tango-foxtrot-2016)
(64)	Lavinia deliberately wishes to impress on us the fact of “Jesus as gar-
dener” (COCA, Magazine 2009)
(65)	 a.	 I don’t see how this is impressing every other country. (COCA 2013)
b.	But it isn’t just Malala’s physical recovery which is impressing the
doctors. (COCA 2012)
Appendix
Psych-Verbs 177
As we’ll see in the Appendix to Chapter 8, there is another verb, namely
feed, that also changes from telic to durative.
Remember is older than remind and was borrowed from French around
1350; the main meaning has an Experiencer subject with an optional reflex-
ive and preposition before the Theme, as in (66).
(66)	 Þe seuen holy gostes lowen hem whan þai remembren hem of [v.r.
how] þat Iesus crist suffred.
‘the seven holy ghosts praise him when they remember (remind them-
selves) how Christ suffered.’
(OED, c1350 Apocalypse St. John: A Version (Harl. 874) 42, MED)
This reflexive renders the verb ambiguous from the beginning and, when
this is lost, the verb is a solid subject Experiencer, which is expected from
the changes we’ve seen in the chapter.
However, there seems to be an early ‘reversal’ from subject Experiencer to
object Experiencer in (67) with inanimate subjects.
(67)	 Greefe fils the roome vp of my absent childe: Lies in his bed, walkes
vp and downe with me, Puts on his pretty lookes, repeats his words,
Remembers me of all his gracious parts, Stuffes out his vacant gar-
ments with his forme; (Shakespeare, King John, III.iv)
Although I have heard native speakers make this reversal, it is not to be
found in COCA.
The verb remind is a later development of the noun mind converted to the
verb and then combined with the prefix. It occurs both as subject Experiencer,
as in (68), and as object Experiencer, as in (69), at roughly the same time.
(68)	 My humbled soule to dust, prostrate on earth, dooth cleve; Remynd
thy woord; and up revived servant heve. (OED, 1615 E. Sandys Sacred
Hymns 111)
(69)	 Moreouer Faith will reminde thee of Christs partnership in thy afflic-
tion. (OED, 1621, S. Ward Life of Faith xii. 95).
It is unexpected that (66) remains if we think of changes that verbs like fear
undergo.
Notes
1	Although please can be found with subject experiencers, as in (i), this use is rare.
(i)	I please upon the creature which I . . . (EEBO, George Abbot 1651)
2	 These figures sometimes include the adverb, e.g. when it follows to, but it is not a
major factor.
1 Introduction
Not surprising considering the basic premise of this book, sense perception
verbs usually come in different aspectual varieties. These are stative expe-
riential (e.g. see), durative agentive (e.g. watch), and stative copula (e.g.
look). In this chapter, I will examine changes in English verbs of perception.
Although the stative verb see remains in use throughout the entire history
of English, there is evidence that its past tense develops a use as evidential
auxiliary and that many other changes occur to the inventory of the three
types of verbs.
Viberg (1983) remains an influential study that uses the terms ­
experiencer-
based, activity-based, and source-based for see, look, and watch, respec-
tively. The stative experiential verb has an Experiencer subject and a Theme
object, the stative copula has a Theme as subject and an optional Experi-
encer, and the durative agentive has an Agent subject and Theme object.
Table 7.1 shows a set of these verbs.
Viberg notes that many of these verbs involve light verbs cross-linguisti-
cally. The particular light verb that is chosen will be important as evidence
for the aspectual character of a verb. Light verbs also contribute to the
change towards a more analytic system. Apart from providing a table for all
Old English sense perception verbs and commenting on some generalities,
I mainly restrict myself to verbs of visual perception.
The outline is as follows. Section 2 provides a description of the various
sense perception verbs. I highlight the use of -ing progressives and light
verbs that are typical of activity-based perception verbs. Section 3 discusses
the renewal of the durative visual perception verbs and section 4 considers
what happens when the verb saw is reanalyzed as auxiliary. Section 5 con-
siders acquisition data and section 6 is a conclusion.
2  Stative and Durative Perception Verbs
In this section, I indicate some differences in the marking of outer aspect
between the various perception verbs in current and older English. These
7	 Sense Perception Verbs
Sense Perception Verbs 179
Table 7.1  Perception verbs in English (adapted from Viberg 1983: 125)
Stative1 Stative2 = copula Durative
EXP TH TH (EXP) A TH
sight see look, be visible look at, watch, observe
appear have/take a look at
hearing hear sound, be audible listen to, find out, hearken
give (. . .) ear
touch feel feel feel, touch
taste taste taste taste
smell smell smell smell
differences tell us about the differences in inner aspect that were listed in
Table 7.1. In 2.1, I start with the use of the progressive in Modern English
that distinguishes between stative and durative and show how the verbs are
also distinguished in Old English, although there is no progressive. In 2.2,
I discuss the many changes that (especially the durative) verbs undergo, and
in 2.3, the use of light verbs.
2.1  Three Classes of Perception Verbs
The three kinds of perception verbs differ in aspect; the first two in Table 7.1
are stative whereas the third is durative. We can see this difference in gram-
matical aspect, although this may be changing as was alluded to in the previ-
ous chapter.
In Modern English, the two stative perception verbs use the simple pre-
sent, as in (1a) and (2a), rather than the progressive aspect, as shown in (1b)
and (2b). With durative verbs, it is the opposite, as (3) shows.
(1)	a.	 I see (the) mountains.	 EXP	 TH
b.	*I am seeing (the) mountains.	 stative
(2)	a.	 This looks good.	 TH
b.	*This is looking good.	 stative
(3)	a.	 *I look at the neighbors. (grammatical only as habitual)	 A	 TH
b.	I am looking at the neighbors.	 durative
The judgments for (1) to (3) are standard English ones. As was mentioned in
the previous chapter, the progressive -ing construction may be expanding its
role, as some statives can have -ing in COCA, e.g. look in (2b).
Trees for (1) and (3) could be, as in (4), with different light verbs depend-
ing on whether the theta-role is Agent or Experiencer.
180  Sense Perception Verbs
The structure for the verb in (2) is like the copula of chapter 5 but with an
optional Experiencer, shown in (5).
After having given some introduction to the three kinds in Modern Eng-
lish, I turn to older stages.
2.2  From Old to Middle to Modern English
Old English has no obligatory expression of the progressive aspect, and it
is therefore hard to distinguish between (1) and (3). I will suggest that we
can still distinguish between stative (6) and durative (7) through the use of
a preposition with the durative, i.e. on in (7).
Sense Perception Verbs 181
(6) a. Soðlice ic seo & ongyte in þam forðgelæddan
Truly I see and perceive in that forth.led
wætere of þam stane
water of that stone
‘I truly see and perceive the water coming out of the stone (that . . .).’
(DOE, Gregory, Hecht 120.13)
b. Oft ic wig seo, frecne feohtan.
Often I war see, dangerous fight
‘I often see war, dangerous combat.’ (DOE, Exeter Book, Riddle 5.3–4)
(7) a. synbyrþenne, firenweorc berað, on þæt þa folc seoð
sin.burden wicked.work bear on that the people see
‘(They) will bear the burden of sin. Their wicked work that the peo-
ple will look at.’ (B&T, Exeter Book, Christ 1299–1300)
b. swa sweotole swa he on þa sunnan mæg eagum andweardum on locian
as clear as he on the sun may eyes present on look
‘As clearly as he can look at the sun with his eyes.’
(DOE, Metres of Boethius, Krapp 22.16)
c. Alle hire luueden þet hire on lokeden
All her loved that her on looked
‘All that looked at her loved her.’ (OED, c1225 St. Margaret, Bodl. 4)
So, Modern English statives and duratives can be distinguished through
the use of the progressive with the latter; in Old English, either the meaning
or the use of prepositions help distinguish.
The set of agentive verbs has been enlarged from the Old English seon and
locian in (7) to include watch, observe, and take a look at. The copular sta-
tives have added be visible and be audible. Although this chapter is mainly
about visual perception verbs, I have put the perception verbs together in
Table 7.2, using Bosworth and Toller’s dictionary and Buck (1949).
This table shows that the durative verbs in Old English are different from
the ones in present-day English that we’ve seen in Table 7.1. Both the Modern
and Old English right-hand columns are diverse and so suggest a lot of change.
Note also that the tactile copulas do not have a special verb. As Klein (1998:
163) suggests for the tactile ones, they can be rendered by the use of ‘be’.
182  Sense Perception Verbs
In Table 7.3, I have listed the most general perception verbs and their
dates of first occurrence to get a sense for the direction of the change. The
stative experiencer verbs see, hear, feel, and stink have remained stable, but
the other two classes have seen a lot of replacement.
The main changes between Old and Middle English are indicated by
means of arrows in Table 7.3 and highlighted in (8).
(8)	 Changes in the aspect of perception verbs
look:	 durative OE	 >	 stative 1225
	 A TH		 TH
feel:	 stative OE	 >	 stative 1225
	 EXP TH		 TH
		 >	 durative 1382
		 A TH
Table 7.3  First use of the basic verbs
stave copula durave
visual see OE look 1225 look OE
auditory hear OE sound 1325 listen 1220 (1 OE example)
tacle feel OE be OE feel 1581 feel 1384 taste 1290
taste taste 1340
smell stink OE; smell 1175 stink OE; smell 1175 stink OE; smell 1200
Table 7.2  Perception verbs in Old English
Stative1 Stative2 Durative
EXP TH TH (EXP) A TH
visual (ge)seon ‘see’ þyncan ‘seem’ seon, locian,
(ge)sceawian
wlitan, hawian, cepan
‘look’
auditory (ge)hieran ‘hear’ swegan ‘sound’ gehlystan, hearcnian
‘listen, obey’
tactile (ge)felan
(ge)fredan ‘feel’
beon ‘be’ hreppan, (ge)hrepian,
(æt)hrinan
(ge)grapian ‘touch’
taste byrgan ‘taste’ smæccan ‘taste’ (a)byrian, abyrgan,
smæccan ‘taste’
smell (ge)stincan, eðian stincan, reocan gestincan ‘smell’
gesweccan ‘smell’ bladesian, stiman
æþmian, hremian
‘smell’
Sense Perception Verbs 183
As we saw in chapter 5, two perception verbs are reanalyzed as copu-
las, the durative look, which is unexpected, and the stative feel, which is
expected. The possible reanalysis of feel to a durative is a change I come
back to in chapter 9. The replacement of the others will be discussed in
section 3.
I’ll now turn to the use of light verbs. This is important because the light
verbs make the inner aspect clear.
2.3  Light Verbs
Viberg (1983: 129–31) shows that certain languages form stative and non-
stative variants through serial verbs or light verbs. Vietnamese and Manda-
rin Chinese use simple verbs for the durative verbs and serial verbs for both
types of statives. In Chinese, the activity-based verb of visual perception is
kan [see], the experience-based one is kan jian [see perceive], and the source-
based one is you yangzi [have appearance].
In the table that Viberg (1983: 131) provides for Farsi, it is the activity
verbs that have the compound form. The light verb that is included in the
compound is kardan ‘do’ or dadan ‘give’ in Farsi, emphasizing the durativ-
ity of the activity-based verb. Thus, the activity verb for vision is negah
kardan [look make] and for hearing gosh kardan [ear make], gosh dadan
[ear give]; the experiencer ones are the non-compound verbs didan ‘see’ and
shenidan ‘hear’ respectively (Aryanpur and Aryanpur 1998).
For Hindi/Urdu, Viberg lists dekhna (1983: 133) as the equivalent for
both ‘look at’ and ‘see’. However, even though dekhna ‘see’ can be used as
both (as didan can in Farsi, and see can marginally in English), there are
many noun-verb compounds for the activity-based verb ‘see’, namely nazer
karna [view make], malum karna [known make], deryaft karna [inquiry
make], and nagah karna [look make] (see Sant Singh’s 1987 Practical Dic-
tionary). The nouns that are part of the compound in Hindi/Urdu and Farsi
are most often loanwords (see Platts’ 1960 Dictionary) whereas the simple
verbs dekhna ‘see’ and karna ‘do’ have cognates in Sanskrit.
Thus, the simple verb (English see, Persian didan, and Hindi/Urdu
dekhna) is often used for experiencer-based, i.e. stative, meanings. In these
languages, compound verbs are used for activity-based meanings with the
light verb emphasizing the durativity. English light verbs vary enormously,
as (9a-c) show, where the addition of the light verbs makes the aspect clear,
telic in (9a) and (9b), and stative in (9c).
(9)	 a.	O take a look of him as he is the being of beings. (OED, 1686 Ren-
wick Two Godly Lett. ii. 8)
b.	Saints were so low, as one in a grave, that they could not help them-
selves, not get a look of God. (OED, 1669 Hutcheson Expos. Bk.
Job xiv. 198/1)
184  Sense Perception Verbs
c.	 The Leoparde with the seuen heads . . . who hath the loke of a brim
bore, and the herte of a lyon. (OED, a1533 Berners tr. Arthur of
Brytayn xxiv. sig. D.i/2)
Old English lacks light verbs and, as we’ve seen before, it isn’t until Middle
English when these verbs appear in order to clarify the inner aspect.
Now, I’ll turn to renewals by verbs that emphasize the activity in percep-
tion verbs but also renewals of the copulas. The ones listed in Table 7.1 will
be looked at first, to which a few others will be added.
3  Renewal of the Copula and Durative Uses
Comparing Tables 7.1 and 7.2, it is clear that copulas and durative verbs
have been renewed to a considerable extent. Copulas are renewed by either
statives (feel) or duratives (look), as the arrows in Table 7.3 show, or
through loans (sound). Durative verbs are either borrowed (perceive and
observe) or develop from transitive or unergative (watch) verbs. I’ll focus on
the changes with the visual perception verbs.
The copula look undergoes an internal change from a transitive to an
intransitive structure. As mentioned in chapter 5, the first instance of the
copula look is as in (10a). It may have arisen because of frequent intransitive
use of the durative, as in (10b), which is easily reanalyzable once the adverb
wraðliche loses its ending.
(10)	a.	Wurðliche hie deð lokin ðe manne ðe hes luuieð
	 decent it makes look the man that it loves
	 ‘It makes the man look decent who loves it.’
	 (MED, 1225, Vices and Virtues 133–4)
b.	Godd . . .	 lokeð	wraðliche	 uppe hem ðe euele doð.
God	 looks	 angrily	 upon those REL evil do
	 ‘Gods looks angrily upon those who do evil.’
	(OED, Vices and Virtues 61)
Perceive and observe are straightforward Latinate loans, the former being
an early 14th-century loan with the meaning it currently has, as (11) shows,
and the latter being a late 14th-century loan, with a transitive meaning ‘follow’
as well as its visual perception meaning, as (12a) and (12b) show, respectively.
(11)	 Sone, wiȝ inne litel while Worht iparceiued oure gile.
	 ‘Soon, within a little while, Worht saw through our deceit’.
	 (OED, c1330 Seven Sages Auch. 2560, MED)
Sense Perception Verbs 185
(12)	a.	Wommen that obseruen chastitee moste be clene in herte.
	 ‘Women that observe chastity must be clean of heart.’
	 (OED, c1390, Chaucer, Parson’s Tale 947)
b.	a thing which that these astrologiens gretly observen.
	 ‘a thing that these astrologers observe a lot.’
	 (OED, Chaucer, Astrolabie II, 4.4)
So, the visual preception meaning of both loans is present from the start.
There are verbs that develop copular uses through internal change.
According to Bosworth and Toller, watch (or rather its unpalatalized form
wake) has the stative meaning of ‘be awake’ and the durative meaning of
‘remain awake’, as in (13).
(13)	 Heht	 me	 wæccende	 wunian	 longe
Commanded	me	waking	 remain	 long
	 ‘He commanded me to remain awake.’
	(OED, Exeter Book, Riddle 40.8)
The latter meaning is important for the development of the visual percep-
tion meaning of watch, which I first show, and the former for a causative
meaning, which I discuss here for completeness but which is not relevant to
perception verbs.
After the intransitive use of the verb wæcc- in Old English, Middle
English develops a transitive, durative meaning of ‘keep awake’, as in
(14), and a transitive meaning that leads to the visual perception one,
namely (15).
(14)	 When þe Bretons þe hil had taken, Wyþ sege þe Payens held þem
waken.
	 ‘When the Britons had taken the hill, with siege the Pagans held them
awake.’
	 (OED, c1330, Mannyng Chron. 9196)
(15)	 To spekenn wiþþ þa wakemenn Þatt wokenn heore faldess.
	 ‘to speak with the watchmen that watched over their sheepfolds.’
	 (MED, c1200 Orm. 3773)
After Middle English, the verb acquires the modern meaning of ‘observing
someone’, as in (16), with the unergative meaning of ‘stay awake/watch’
persisting in Shakespeare, as in (17).
186  Sense Perception Verbs
(16)	 a.	Ill watch Titania, when she is asleepe, and drop the liquor . . .
	(Shakespeare, Midsummer Night’s Dream II, i, 177)
b.	Giue her good watch I pray you. (Shakespeare, Hamlet iv, 5, 75)
(17)	 No: I will sit, and watch here, by the King. (Shakespeare, II Henry 4,
iv, 5, 20)
The clearly unambiguous meaning of (18) is late. Johnson’s Dictionary from
1755 mentions ‘observe in order to detect or prevent’, but not just ‘observe’,
which appears in the 19th century.
(18)	 I have had great pleasure in watching the approach of the carriage, . . .
(1818, Walter Scott, Heart of Midlothian)
This discussion so far has shown that the transitive use of (14) and (15) is
the most likely source for the visual perception verb, which is unambigu-
ously perception, as in (18).
As I mentioned above, the verb watch is also stative in Old English, with
the meaning ‘be awake’, which is close to ‘be watchful’. That use may have
given rise to another development with this verb, namely where it has telic
aspect, i.e. unaccusative in (19) and causative in (20).
(19)	a.	Horn	 him	 wok	 of	 slape
	 Horn	 REFL	woke	 of	 sleep
	 ‘Horn woke up.’ (MED, c1300 Horn 83/1417)
b.	Rymenhild . . . Wakede of hire swoȝning.
	 ‘Rymenhild woke from her swoon.’
	 (MED, c1300 Horn 27/444)
(20)	 Heuene shal not waken hym out ne he shal rijsen fro his slep.
	 ‘Heven shall not wake him up; nor shall he rise from his sleep.’
	 (MED, a1382, WBible, Job 14.12)
These have frequent reflexives, as in (19a), result PPs, as in (19b), or result
particles in (20). The reason for this environment may have been because
the verb was more often durative. So, we see a coercion to telic through lexi-
cal means that may have affected the eventual inner aspect.
Continuing to look at the visual perception verbs of Table 7.1, we already
discussed sentences with take/get/have a look of that appear in the 16th
century. Not mentioned yet or listed in Table 7.1 are peer, peep, glance,
Sense Perception Verbs 187
and stare, which are all quite specialized forms of durative perception verbs
and denominal and so could have a light verb. These many possibilities are
shown in (21). Note also that a Theme is not required, which fits with the
durative nature of these verbs.
(21)	 a.	 as we take a peer outside and look- look into those famous windows.
	 (COCA spoken 1995)
b.	One day I managed to take a peep into the room. (COCA fiction
2013)
c.	 wrenching my neck to get a glance at the clock. (COCA magazine
2007)
d.	you can go in grocery stores in certain neighborhoods and get a
stare. (COCA spoken 1997)
This section has examined some of the renewals of perception verbs. The
copula in (9) is probably due to a reanalysis after words that have final -e
are no longer clearly used for adverbs but appear on all kinds of nouns and
adjectives. With duratives, since these have an Agent and a Theme, their ori-
gin is either that of a transitive verb (observe) or an unergative one where a
new Theme is assumed (watch) or as we’ve seen before through light verbs.
Verbs that have only a Theme are easily reanalyzable as auxiliaries. How-
ever, van Gelderen (2004) discusses the grammaticalization of transitive saw
as an evidential auxiliary, and I review those arguments in the next section
and suggest a reason why this is possible.
4  Grammaticalization of Perceptual Verbs into Auxiliaries
In many languages, perception in the past is more grammaticalized than per-
ception in the present. For instance, Eleni Buzarovska (p.c.) reports that in
Greek and Macedonian perception verbs in the past tense have a special
infinitival complement that makes them more evidential than the present
tense ones. Gordon (1986: 75; 84) shows that, in Maricopa, see and hear
can be either evidentials or full verbs with a sentential complement.
In addition to a connection of perception verbs with past tense and evi-
dential mood, there is a connection with aspect. Hale (1991: 5–6) reports
that in Misumalpan, a group of languages spoken in Nicaragua and El Sal-
vador, perception verbs pattern with aspectual verbs, such as ‘begin’ and
‘finish’, in selecting a participial complement, whereas other verbs select an
infinitive. This suggests that perception verbs are somehow seen as belong-
ing to aspectuals. In this section, I first present some evidence that saw in
English is moving towards aspectual auxiliary-status and then the mecha-
nism of that change.
188  Sense Perception Verbs
Modern English bare infinitives differ from those in other Germanic lan-
guages in that the event referred to by the infinitive in (22a) must be com-
pleted (see e.g. Quirk et al. 1985: 1206); hence, (22b) is ungrammatical.
(22)	 a.	I saw him cross the street.
b.	*I see him cross the street.
There are other indications that the complement in (22) has perfective
aspect: (23a) is not widely accepted by native speakers since the ‘for hours’
forces a durative reading, incompatible with the perfective, whereas (23b) is
although it has the same past saw.
(23)	 a.	?I saw him read the book for hours.
b.	I saw him reading the book for hours.
The complement to a perception verb cannot contain another aspectual
auxiliary, such as have or be, as in (24) and (25), because they are situated
in the same position, as I will show in a tree.
(24)	 *I saw him have crossed the street.
(25)	 *I saw him be crossing the street.
These data suggest that saw is checking the perfective aspect of the verb when
the verb has an infinitival shape in (22a) and (23a) but not when it is -ing
in (23b). In that case, saw is a main verb with an -ing clause complement.
A tree for the evidential and the main verb are given in (26ab), respectively.
Sense Perception Verbs 189
In (26a), saw starts as ASP head and these sentences cannot have another
aspectual auxiliary and result in a perfective interpretation of the clause
with cross. In (26b), the ASP head has -ing and the complement is imper-
fective. Since saw contributes a meaning of visual evidence, its use is also
evidential and it moves to M in (26a). It is not surprising that evidential
saw occurs only in the perfective because that is a stage for which we have
definite evidence. Abraham (1998) argues that “evidentiality is . . . often
triggered by the perfect or perfectiveness”. That may mean that saw starts
in v and is reanalyzed as moving to ASP and M.
For a verb to be reanalyzed as an auxiliary, it has to have a sentential
complement whose verb becomes the main and only verb. Moreover, once
English has both (22a) and (23b), it becomes possible for the language
acquirer to differentiate the two, one for perfective and the other for imper-
fective aspect.
The restriction of present tense see and infinitive, as in (22b), hasn’t
always been there, as (27) shows, and there are also -ynge forms after saw,
as in (28).
(27)	 that lady that I see Yond in the gardyn romen to and fro Is cause of . . .
‘that lady that I see roaming in that garden is the cause of . . .’
(Chaucer, Knight’s Tale 40.1098–9, from Kerkhof 1966: 55)
(28)	 And saw his barge saylynge in the se
‘And saw his barge sailing in the sea.’
(Chaucer, Legend of Good Women 624.2196)
Van Gelderen (2004: 198) argues that the reanalysis of saw coincides with
the progressive becoming obligatory at the beginning of the 19th century.
So, once ASP becomes occupied by -ing, both (26a) and (26b) become pos-
sible. In chapter 9, we’ll discuss that change towards an obligatory progres-
sive more.
5 Acquisition
In previous chapters, we have seen data from Eve, Adam, and Sarah (Brown
1973), Abe (Kuczaj 1976, 1977), and Naima (Demuth, Culbertson and
Alter 2006). For perception verbs, I will give data from the first two since
they represent a good time span. In this section, I’d like to explore when
verbs of different aspectual classes are acquired.
There are many instances of see and look in Eve’s early speech and some
of watch. Examples of experiencer verbs are given in (29) and of activity-
based ones in (30) and (31). Copula use is exemplified in (32). Of course,
none of the Latinate verbs such as observe or perceive appear.
190  Sense Perception Verbs
(29)	a.	see ya. (Eve 1;6)	 EXP	 TH
b.	see it. (Eve 1;6)
c.	I see. (Eve 1;7)
(30)	 a.	there. look. (Eve 1;6)	 A	 TH
b.	look baby eating (Eve 1;6)
c.	 look the funny hat (Eve 1;8)
d.	look at those (Eve 2;2)
(31)	a.	watch (Eve 1;6)	 A	 TH
b.	you go watch me eat my lunch (Eve 1;11)
(32)	 a.	that [/] that look like a swimming pool (Eve 2;2)		 TH
b.	look like other cup (Eve 2;2)
As for aspectual markers, Eve uses see three times with an -ing, as in (33),
and look five times, as in (34). She is using both in a durative sense. This
may because the mother uses see actively, as in (35).1
(33)	CHI:	 I seeing Fraser (Eve 2;1)
	 MOT:	 I know you’re seeing Fraser but he’ll be back tomorrow
(34)	She looking at me (Eve 2;1)
(35)	MOT:	 you’re seeing the penguin. (Adam 2;8.16)
Adam has a transitive use of see by the first file, as in (36), and of look with
optional preposition, as in (37). His use of a copula is early as well; initially
with like in (38a) and then with adjectives in (38b).
(36)	I see truck
see a truck (Adam 2;3.4)
(37)	 a.	alright look tv (Adam 2:3.4)
b.	look at dat (Adam 2;6.3)
(38)	a.	look like dat (Adam 2:3.18)
b.	you look funny (Adam 2;7.14)
Adam uses the verb look in a very durative way with the additional doing,
as in (39), which the mother corrects.
(39)	CHI:	 doing looking windmill (Adam 2;4.3)
	 MOT:	 oh you’re looking at the windmill
Sense Perception Verbs 191
In short, all uses of the visual perception verbs occur early and with the
appropriate aspectual marking.
6 Conclusion
Verbs of (visual) perception come in several aspectual varieties, experiential
and copular statives and activity-based duratives. This is well-known for
Modern English and, in this chapter, I have added the Old English verbs and
the changes that take place.
As we saw in chapter 5, the copular use of look is historically later than
the durative use and is likely an internal development. There is a lot of
change with durative verbs; some are borrowed and some develop from
unergatives. We also see some change in aspectual class, e.g. in (8). Light
verbs become frequent with all kinds of aspectual classes. A possible change
to epistemic and perfective auxiliary is also discussed. Acquisition data
show early use of all three perceptual classes.
There is an example of a durative perception verb, as in (40), reanalyzing
as a ditransitive, as in (41). As we’ll see in the next chapter, the latter are
typically telic and causative so this change is unexpected. That is also what
the OED says (s.v. show):
In all the continental West Germanic languages, as in Old English, the
verb [show] means “to look at”; the sudden change in English (c1200)
from this to the causative sense “to cause to see, exhibit, manifest”, is
difficult to account for.
(40)	a.	Syðþan	hie	 þæs	 laðan	 last	    sceawedon.
	 since	 they	 that	 hostile	footprint  observed
	 ‘When they saw the track of the foe.’ (OED, Beowulf 132)
b.	Se cyng ferde to Winceastre & sceawode þæt madme hus.
	 ‘The king went to Winchester and looked at that treasury.’
	 (OED Anglo-Saxon Chron. 1086)
c.	 Sceawiaþ þa lilian hu hi wexað.
	 ‘Look at the lilies how they grow.’
	 (OED, West Saxon Gospels: Luke (Corpus Cambr.) xii. 27)
d.	He scawede [Otho sewede] þa wuodes. & þa wildernes.
	 ‘He looked at the woods and the wilderness.’
	 (OED, Laȝamon Brut, Caligula 2404)
(41)	a.	He schewede heom his honde and so he dude his fet.
	 ‘He showed him his hands and so he did his feet.’
	 (OED, Passion of our Lord 610 in Old Eng. Misc. 54)
Appendix
Sense Perception Verbs 193
b.	And quen þis wessel thris was scaun, Again it was til heuen draun.
	 ‘And when this vessel was shown thrice, it was again drawn to
heaven.’
	(OED, Cursor Mundi, Vesp. 19889)
Mustanoja (1960: 429) suggests that the influence of French may have been
relevant and provides examples of Middle English use as evidence thereof.
French influence is unlikely because the OED has late Old English uses.
Note
1	 Shirai (1994), however, says that Eve’s mother doesn’t do this, in contrast to Nao-
mi’s mother.
1 Introduction
Ditransitives are verbs that have three arguments connected with them, typi-
cally an Agent, Theme, and Goal. Many languages realize the two objects in
alternating patterns. These verbs have been controversial in syntactic theory
because it continues to be hard to formulate a rule for languages, such as
English, that alternate between DP DP and DP PP that predicts which verbs
allow DP DP structures, which allow DP PP structures, and which allow
both. There has been much debate as to whether DP DP and DP PP have
a common underlying structure and, if so, which derives from which and
if the theta-roles differ. The consensus at the moment (e.g. Harley 2002;
Beavers 2011) seems to be that the DP DP and DP PP variants have separate
structures; certain facts from the history of English and acquisition confirm
this. The Old English DP DP ones are telic whereas the DP PP ones are dura-
tive, but this changes thanks to a new DP PP pattern being introduced in
Middle English (see e.g. Zehentner 2016).
In keeping with the main questions raised in this book, I ask where ditran-
sitives come from and how they change their aspect and theta-roles. The
basic group is small and each verb is specialized, e.g. for manner of transfer
of possession (pass and send) or length (loan and lease) or legal status (lease
and sell). It is hard to make generalizations about aspect and theta-roles for
this verb class. In early work, the theta-roles of these verbs are seen to be
Agent, Theme, and Goal or Recipient. It turns out, however, that this class
of verbs is even more varied in that most are telic and involve a Causer (This
gave me a headache) and some an Experiencer (They taught her Chinese)
and some a Result (They gave it away to the orphanage).
The history of English shows that many ditransitive verbs have a causa-
tive start, expected if telicity is central to this class. Many of these verbs,
e.g. send, are used in Old English with the DP PP pattern and differ in that
respect from the give class, reinforcing Rappaport Hovav and Levin’s (2008)
argument that DP PP is typical for caused motion in that class of verbs.
Old English causative verbs such as sendan ‘send’ incorporate the optional
8	Ditransitives
Ditransitives 195
PP adverbial as Goal argument, which results in a ditransitive meaning of
caused motion.
The outline of this chapter is as follows. In section 2, I provide a defini-
tion and an analysis for Modern English, as in Harley (2002) and Harley
and Jung (2015), which I then adapt while keeping in mind the difficulties
with this class of verbs. Then, in section 3, I provide some details on what
has been discovered about the history of English ditransitives and how this
relates to their structure. In section 4, I examine a group of Old English
ditransitives in detail, showing that the verbs are either durative or telic.
In section 5, I examine some of the verbs that are originally causative and
those of saying. In section 6, I turn to the acquisition data, and section 7 is
a conclusion. As in previous chapters, an unexpected change is discussed in
the Appendix.
2 Ditransitives
Ditransitive verbs have typically been seen as having an Agent, a Goal or
Recipient, and a Theme (see Malchukov, Haspelmath and Comrie 2010:
1), although the Agent is frequently a Causer, as we’ll see. Benefactives (as
in I baked her a cake) and malefactives (as in She took it from them) are
a special type of ditransitive, as are applicatives, which promote non-core
arguments to arguments. Benefactives are typically durative (build, knit,
bake) and the PP argument is optional (see Traugott 2017 for more on their
history), and they as well as malefactives and applicatives will be left out of
the discussion. In this section, I will outline one of the current proposals for
the basic ditransitive, i.e. the one with a Recipient, and its two alternating
guises. The object bearing the Theme role is abbreviated as DO (for direct
object), and the one with the Recipient object as IO (for indirect object).
In chapter 2, I mentioned some debates about the alternation between (1)
and (2).
(1)	 I gave him a book	 DP DP = IO DO
(2)	 I gave a book to him	 DP PP = DO IO
There are some questions that can be asked. (a) Do the DP DP and DP PP
constructions have a common underlying structure or not and, if yes, which
derives from which? (b) What determines which verbs use one or the other
or both? (c) What are the theta-roles and aspectual properties of these verbs?
The affirmative answer to (a) given by e.g. Larson (1988) led to a lot of
work trying to reconcile the different theta-roles in the two constructions.
I mentioned some of this in chapter 2. At the moment, the answer to (a)
given by e.g. Harley (2002) is negative, and separate trees for (1) and (2) are
like (3) and (4), respectively.
196  Ditransitives
As partial evidence for these trees, Harley and Miyagawa (2016) use the
fact that idioms typically involve the lowest DP or PP. An example of the low-
est DP in (3) would be the creeps in the idiom give him the creeps; an example
of the PP in (4) would be to the wolves in the idiom throw him to the wolves.
The arguments from binding and negative polarity items speak in favor of
these structures as well (see Bruening 2010 for some criticism, however).
In (5) and (6), the reflexives need to be c-commanded by an appropriate
antecedent. In (5a), using (3), the reflexive herself is c-commanded by the
matching antecedent Mary, but not in (5b). Using (4) for (6) gives the right
result again: in (6a), herself is lower than Mary, but not in (6b).
(5)	 a.	 I showed Mary herself.
b.	 *I showed herself Mary.
Ditransitives 197
(6)	 a.	 I showed Mary to herself.
b.	 *I showed herself to Mary.
As for question (b), Pinker (2013: 97–100; 129–39) sees the main reason
behind being able to have the DP DP construction in terms of the degree
of affectedness for the first DP. For instance, in (7a), the students are more
affected than in (7b).
(7)	 a.	 They taught the students French.	 DP DP
b.	 They taught French to the students.	 DP PP
The precise formulation of the alternation is still debated, but the affect-
edness of the Recipient in (3) and (7a) is connected to the theta-role, as
I have said above, Experiencer of possession in (3) and (7a), and Goal of the
motion in (4) and (7b).
As Beavers (2011) argues in great detail, the puzzle with some of these verbs is
that the possession and arrival can be prospective, as in (8a) though not in (8b).
(8)	a.	 Kim threw Daniel the ball, but the wind blew it out of his reach.
b.	#Kim gave Daniel the ball, but he never got it.
Rappaport Hovav and Levin (2008) argue for a major division between
verbs like give and sell on the one hand and verbs like throw and send on
the other. With the former, the DP DP and DP PP both mean caused posses-
sion, whereas with throw and send the DP PP can have the meaning of both
caused possession and caused motion. That makes (8a) possible because the
motion can be interrupted.
There are other differences between give and sell on the one hand and
send and throw on the other in that the former have three arguments
and the latter have two. I show in section 4 that this is obvious in earlier
stages. We’ll see that verbs like send and throw are causative and transi-
tive in Old English, not typically ditransitive. I will argue that the DP
PP with the latter class arises through incorporation of an adverbial as
Goal.
Pesetsky (1995: 137) notes that verbs like throw, fling, kick, and flick
indicate “instantaneous causation of ballistic motion” and can alternate
between DP PP and DP DP. These telic verbs are unlike the more durative
pull, push, drag, and shlep, which appear only with a DP PP pattern.
As for question (c)—what the theta-roles and inner aspect connected to
ditransitive verbs are—traditional grammatical insight sees the thematic
role of the highest argument in both DP DP and DP PP as an Agent (e.g.
Williams 1981; Malchukov, Haspelmath and Comrie 2010). The possible
use of deliberately in (9), with both DP DP and DP PP, suggests such a
theta-role.
(9)	 a.	PrimeTime  deliberately gave this couple obscure directions (COCA
spoken 1992)
198  Ditransitives
b.	He’s saying that they deliberately gave bad information to the Con-
gressional Budget Office (COCA spoken 2014)
However, deliberately in (9ab) may be modifying the negative and mean
something like: ‘They gave the couple information which was deliberately
bad’. Only in (10) are the instances of deliberately clearly modifying the
verbs gave and sent, respectively.
(10)	 a.	
it’s moving in many ways as you see that people like this boy delib-
erately gave their lives for their causes (COCA spoken 2003)
b.	You write that you feel that God deliberately sent you to prison
(COCA spoken 1996)
The DP DP pattern also has inanimate subjects, as (11ab) shows, suggesting
a Causer, rather than an Agent. Inanimate subjects do not appear with DP
PP, as (12) shows.
(11)	 a.	
this gave you, perhaps, better opportunities and better jobs (COCA
spoken 2015)
b.	this gave him extra stature (COCA spoken 2013)
(12)	*This gave an idea to him.
Other theta-roles are involved with ditransitives too, e.g. Experiencer. One
of the differences between DP DP and DP PP is that the former can have an
experiential meaning, as in (13), with teach.
(13)	 The method taught her Chinese.	 EXP
Basilico (2008: 761) shows that ditransitive verbs occur with an added
Result particle, as (14) shows. The basic aspect of cook is durative but up
adds a telic meaning.
(14)	 a.	I cooked her up something special.
b.	I cooked up something special for her.
I will therefore argue that the inner aspect of the ditransitive verbs is not uni-
form. It is telic with a Causer or durative with an Agent. So, my trees will look
the same as in (3) and (4) except for the light verb being variable. The typological
literature (e.g. Malchukov 2014: 8) notes that verbs of causation of continuous
motion are much rarer as ditransitives (e.g. pull), showing their basic telic aspect.
Verbs with a DP DP pattern have a varied inner aspect whereas those with
a DP PP one are more often durative. Having seen that the DP DP and DP
PP orders result in slightly different meanings in Modern English, I now turn
to what is known about these verbs from the history of English.
Ditransitives 199
3  Word Order, Case, and Animacy
In this section, I review the previous literature on changes in word order and
in the case marking by ditransitive verbs in the history of English. The DP
DP order of Old English either has the IO or the DO first and that holds in
both main and subordinate clauses, and the IO and DO are marked through
different cases. The DP PP order occurs with certain classes of verbs or
with inanimate Goals. The current section will give a general sense for what
scholars have looked at and will select some aspects that shed light on their
structural representation and aspectual characterization. I will argue that
the PP is optional with some verbs and that DP PP patterns are more dura-
tive; DP DP verbs are often telic and many derive from causative verbs. As
argued by Zehentner (2016), a new DP PP pattern is introduced in Middle
English, making it possible for telic verbs to have a PP.
The historical development of ditransitives has been examined by Mitch-
ell (1985), Koopman (1990, 1993), Allen (1995, 2006), McFadden (2002),
Colleman and DeClerck (2011), De Cuypere (2015), and Zehentner (2016),
among others. Mitchell is concerned with the case of the DP DP order and
finds an inanimacy restriction on the object when it is preceded by to. This
is confirmed by De Cuypere and will help us clarify the structure for the
Old English counterparts of (2). Koopman (1990) finds either IO DO and
DO IO order as frequent and Koopman (1993) shows that the pronominal
object will be first and, if both objects are pronominal, the accusative will
precede the dative in Old English.
McFadden wonders which of the two DP DP orders gives rise to the DP
PP order in Middle English and concludes it is the one with the direct and
indirect objects in the same order but with a different marking, dative in Old
English and a preposition in Middle English. So, what is marked as DP DP
and DP PP in Modern English keeps the same word order as in Old English.
This shows the stability of the system where IO c-commanding DO and vice
versa are both needed for pragmatic or semantic reasons.
Koopman (1990), Allen (1995: 48), and McFadden (2002) argue that, in
Old English, the IO followed by the DO, as in (18), is about as frequent as the
reverse, as in (19), although we’ll see some notable exceptions to this below.
(18)	 Willelm cyng	 geaf 	 Rodberd-e	 eorl-e	 þone  earldom
Willelm king	 gave	 Rodberd-DAT	 earl-DAT	 that.ACC earldom
‘King William gave Earl Rodberd an earldom.’
(Peterborough Chronicle entry for the year 1068)
(19) Se mennisca crist dælde his god his ðeow-um
that human Christ gave his goods.ACC his servants-DAT
‘The human Christ gave his goods to his servants.’
(Ælfric’s Catholic Homilies Godden, 319.44 from Allen 2006: 206)
200  Ditransitives
Allen’s (1995, 2006) main question is to find out if the loss of DO IO is
connected to the loss of case. She concludes that these two developments
are not directly linkable (2006: 209–10) because texts that have lost overt
morphological case still retain the DO IO order.
McFadden argues that the IO DO, i.e. DP DP, order remains unchanged in
its historical development but that the DO IO order becomes prepositional, i.e.
DP PP, with the loss of dative case. Using the trees in (3) and (4), i.e. with the
light verb as CAUSE, he argues that the Modern English CAUSE-­
morpheme
assigns case to him and the book, respectively, and that the P-HAVE does so
to the book in (3). In (4), there is no verb to give case to the locative him and
hence to appears. McFadden thinks that apart from the morphological dative
that could appear in (4) in Old English, Old, Middle, and Modern English are
otherwise much the same. Thus, for MacFadden, Old English has a structure
as in (3) for the IO DO and a structure as in (4) for the DO IO. As mentioned,
I think (3) and (4) need to be adapted, which I show in (20) and (21) by
changing the higher v-CAUSE to v-CAUSE and v-DUR, respectively.
Ditransitives 201
Mitchell’s (1985: 512–14) and De Cuypere’s (2015) data on the occur-
rence of the DP PP, already in Old English, gives further evidence for the
structures in (20) and (21). Mitchell writes that verbs of speaking allow DP
PP, as do verbs of bringing, taking, and sending, as we’ll see below. The
latter verbs favor (21) because the goal of the movement is more relevant
than the possession, which the synchronic analysis of Rappaport Hovav and
Levin (2008) confirms. Zehentner (2016) argues that the range of the DP DP
pattern became restricted in Middle English because of competition from
the DP PP pattern, and that is compatible with the PP in OE being more of
a physical location than a Goal argument.
Verbs of giving are used in either (20) or (21) but Mitchell adds that “one
can agifan to a monastery . . . or to a place”, as shown in (22), and “(ge)
sellan (in)to a church” (Mitchell 1985: 513), as in (23).
(22)	a.	& man agife	 ælce	 teoðunge	 to	 þam	 ealdan mynstre
	 and IMP give	 each	 tithing	 to	 that	 old  monastery
	 ‘And give every tenth to that old monastery.’
	 (DOE, Liebermann Die Gesetze der Angelsachsen, 194–8.1.1)
b.	þæt man agife þa ciricsceattas & þa sawlsceattas to ðam stowum
	 that IMP give the church.riches and the soul.riches to those places
	 ‘that one should give material and spiritual riches to those places.’
	 (DOE, Liebermann Die Gesetze der Angelsachsen, 146–8.4)
c.	 And	 sy	 ælc	 heorðpening	 agifen . . . 	 to þam biscopstole
	 and	 be	 each	 hearth.penny	 given	 to that bishopry
	 ‘And let all taxes be given to that bishopry.’
	 (DOE, Napier 1883, no. 43: ‘Sunnandæges spell’ 85)
d.	& ic	 gife	 to	 . . . 	 Sancte Peter	 min messehacel.
	 and I	 give	 to	 . . . 	 Saint Peter	 my masse.cloak
	 ‘And I will give my cassock to Saint Peter.’
	(Peterborough Chronicle, year 963)
(23)	 þæt	 gafol	 þæt	 mon	 to	 Rome	 sellan	 sceolde
that	tax	 that	IMP	to	Rome	give	 should
	 ‘The tax that they owed to Rome.’ (Bately, Orosius 141.21)
This marking of the IO emphasizes the location rather than the possession,
and means that the P is overt in (21). We could also consider it as Differential
202  Ditransitives
Object Marking because an inanimate is not expected as indirect object and
therefore needs special marking.
De Cuypere’s (2015) work corroborates Mitchell (and Cassidy 1938) and
shows that the DP PP (and PP DP) pattern was not at all rare in Old English,
e.g. with verbs of communication, such as cweðan ‘speak’, and of directed
motion, such as lædan ‘lead’. In fact, these two verbs in question respec-
tively have 99% and 82% IOs with a to. The Modern English successor
of cweðan is say and this verb currently only appears with DP PP, clearly
similar to the Old English pattern. These are durative verbs and the added
Goal is optional, as I now show.
The verbs with DP PP could typically also be used without a Goal, as in
(24) and (25), indicating that the PP is optional and only later incorporates
the PP as argument.
(24) ne hira agen nyllað sellan. On oðre wisan ða ðe
not their own not.want give on other way those that
willað sellan ðæt hi gestrinað.
want give that they gain
‘nor want to give their own. In another way, those who wish to give
what they gain . . .’ (DOE, Alfred, Cura Pastoralis Heading 45)
(25) ne he ne sceal spræcan ydelu worð
nor he not shall speak idle words
‘Nor shall he speak idle words.’ (DOE, Theodulf 329.70)
Summarizing what we know about the development of ditransitives, there
are two patterns in Old English, namely (18) and (19), which persist into
Modern English as (1) and (2). Old English, like Modern English, has two
distinct representations, as in (20) and (21). Old English, however, generally
marks the difference between the IO and DO through case where English
uses a preposition. Already in Old English, however, inanimate IOs and cer-
tain verbs favor the preposition over case. The PP is, however, less integrated
and optional. That means the meaning of ‘change of possession’ is connected
to (20) but the one of ‘directed motion’ and ‘communication’ with (21).
When the case marking is replaced, the basic underlying system remains the
same, with one verb type more telic (DP DP) and one more durative (DP PP).
I’ll now turn to some ditransitive verbs in Old English and show the sta-
bility and change. Some verbs are causative, others labile between transi-
tives and ditransitives, and light verbs and particles do occur. All of these
characteristics further support the structures in (20) and (21) and the dual
nature of ditransitives.
Ditransitives 203
4  Stability and Change
In this section and the next, I examine some of the verbs that have served
in a ditransitive function in the history of English. This will demonstrate
that many are clearly causative in origin. There is continuity but also some
change, e.g. some initially causative and transitive use.
Levin (1993: 45–6; 138) lists ten classes of alternating ditransitives, e.g.
change of possession (feed, give), verbs of future having (advance, award),
bring/take, send-verbs, and verbs of transfer of a message (teach, show).
Levin has the following give-verbs, which I analyze in Table 8.1: feed, give,
lease, lend, loan, pass, pay, peddle, refund, render, rent, repay, sell, serve,
and trade. I have added advance and award as verbs of future having, and
bring and take, send, and show and teach as verbs of communication. Levin
(1993: 46–7) lists five classes of non-alternating with to (e.g. say-verbs) and
five groups of non-alternating DP DP complements (e.g. ask and declare-
verbs). I have therefore also added the currently non-alternating verbs say
and ask and some ditransitive verbs that were lost. Buck (1949) and Pol-
lington (1993) provide a few of these. The OED was used for dates of first
and last occurrence.
Of the verbs in Table 8.1, 21 out of 37 remain the same throughout the
history of English, i.e. originally ditransitive, and nine are originally unaccu-
sative or causative, i.e. clearly telic. Apart from lead and refund, all of these
telic ones have the DP DP option.
From the data in these tables, we notice that (a) the argument struc-
ture of many of these verbs is stable, (b) variation between ditransitive
and transitive occurs, (c) some are causative, and (d) many of the verbs
have perfective prefixes, e.g. agifan, geleanian, gesellan, and gelendan, and
appear as light verbs. In the remainder of this section, I look at some sim-
ple stability and change and will examine causality and light verbs more in
section 5. Examples of stable verbs are give, loan, and pay. Verbs that are
lost include dælan ‘divide’ and unnan ‘grant’; they are replaced by divide
and grant.
Examples of stable change-of-possession ditransitive verbs are given in
(26) to (28), from Old and Middle English.
(26) ðæt him God geaf
REL him God gave
‘which God gave him.’ (DOE, Pastoral Care, Sweet 45.3)
(27) Gif ðu him lanst ani þing of ðinen.
If you him lend.2S any thing of you
‘If you lend him anything.’ (OED, c1200, Vices and Virtues 1888, 77)
Table
8.1 
The
first
use
of
some
ditransitive
verbs
according
to
the
OED
Dates
Originally
ditransitive
Notes
acsian
‘ask’
OE–now
yes
DP
DP
(both
accusative)
bringan
‘bring’
OE–now
no
causative
in
OE
‘cause
to
come’
fedan
‘feed’
OE–now
no
causative
in
OE
‘cause
to
eat’
gifan
‘give’
OE–now
yes
gieldan
‘give’
OE–now
yes
also
without
IO
lædan
‘lead’
OE–now
no
causative,
DP
to-PP
‘cause
to
go’
lænan
‘lend’
OE–now
yes
(acquired
-d
in
ME)
lætan
‘let’
OE–now
yes
leon
‘lend’
OE–now
yes
leanian
‘reward’
OE–now
yes
also
clausal
DO
secgan
‘say’
OE–now
yes
often
no
IO
and
to-DP
sellan
‘give’
OE–now
yes
sendan
‘send’
OE–now
no
causative
tacan
‘take’
late
OE–now
no
transitive
(first
ditr.
1488)
tæcan
‘show;
teach’
OE–now
yes
and
causative
þrawan
‘turn’
OE–now
no
in/transitive;
later
‘throw’
learnian
‘teach’
OE–1200
no
in/transitive,
‘teach’
in
ME
(ge)unnan
‘grant’
OE–1330
yes
dative
IO
and
genitive
DO
(ge)dælan
‘divide’
OE–1500
yes
also
without
IO
and
labile
(see
Table 4.8)
cweðan
‘speak’
OE–1500
yes
with
DP
PP
and
DP
DP;
alternating
(ge)læran
‘teach’
OE–1500
yes
and
causative
‘cause
to
see’;
double
ACC
(a)lyfan
‘give’
OE–1540
yes
weorpan
‘throw’
OE–1540
no
transitive
loan
1200–now
(conversion
from
a
N)
yes
PP
(of)
DP
show
1225–now
no
perception
verb
in
OE;
causative
in
ME
pay
1225–now
(from
Anglo-Norman)
yes
often
no
IO
serve
1250–now
(from
Anglo-Norman)
yes
often
no
DO
award
1386–now
(from
Anglo-Norman)
yes
render
1393–now
(from
Anglo-Norman)
yes
often
no
IO
rent
1400–now
(from
Anglo-Norman)
no
transitive
meaning
of
‘to
endow’
refund
1409–now
(from
Anglo-Norman)
no
causative
‘cause
to
flow
back’
repay
1462–now
(from
Anglo-Norman)
yes
pass
1512–now
(from
Anglo-Norman)
no
unaccusative/causative
use
1225
trade
1548–now
(conversion
from
a
Low
German
N)
no
transitive
lease
1579–now
(from
Anglo-Norman)
yes
DP
PP
(with
out)
advance
1582—now
(from
Anglo-Norman)
no
transitive
use
1250
peddle
1650–now
(back-formation)
no
unergative,
later
transitive
Ditransitives 205
(28)	 Kyng R. . . . payde Sarezynys here rent.
	 ‘King Richard paid the Saracins their retribution.’
	(OED, Richard Coer de Lyon 1913, 4056)
The verb in (27) is lænan ‘lend’, which later acquires a -d, possibly analogi-
cally according to the OED. The verb loan derives as a conversion from the
noun, possibly borrowed from Old Norse. The point of (27) is to show that
the pattern persists.
In addition to a basic stability, there is also a loss of ditransitives because
some Old English verbs are replaced by French loans, e.g. dælan ‘divide’ in
(29) and unnan ‘grant’ in (30), as their gloss indicates.
(29) and the eritage ȝee delen to ȝoure sonus
and the heritage you divide to your sons
‘and you divide the heritage to your sons.’ (MED, Wycliff Bible
Madden, 571)
(30) Ic þe an tela sincgestreona.
I you grant well treasures
‘I grant you treasures.’ (OED, Beowulf 1225–6)
The loan divide is classified as an alternating causative/unaccusative verb
in Levin (1993: 28), not unusual for this class of verbs, as the later discus-
sion of pass shows, and grant is mostly an alternating ditransitive. The verb
dælan/delen has many meanings in Old and Middle English, among these
‘give’, as in (31), ‘divide’, ‘bestow upon’, ‘to rule’, and ‘to deal with’, as in
(33), of which the last meaning has remained.
(31)	 ond þær on innan eall gedælan geongum ond ealdum, swylc him god
sealde.
and that inside all give young and old, as him God gave
‘And inside he would give all to young and old what God gave him.’
(Beowulf 71–2)
(32)	 Þet	 ðu	 ne	 dele	 noht	 þer	 inne.
that	 you	 not	deal	not	 there	in
‘that you don’t take part in it.’
(OED, c1175 Pater Noster 225 in Lamb. Hom. 67)
Examples (26) to (32) have shown some loss and gain. I now examine some
changes that give more insight to the inner aspect of these verbs.
206  Ditransitives
5  Telicity and Durativity
Apart from unchanged and lost verbs, Table 8.1 shows certain argument
structure alternations: (a) some ditransitives are causative and alternating
unaccusative/causative, (b) some are alternating di/transitive, and (c) some
turn ditransitive after being transitive first. The causatives involve bring, teach,
send, feed, and lædan, the alternating transitive ones say, cweðan ‘speak’, pay,
serve, render, dælan ‘divide’, and gieldan ‘give’, and the earlier transitives
advance, learn, pass, peddle, rent, take, and trade. I’ll discuss some of these.
5.1 Causatives
Verbs discussed in this section are those of teaching and learning, sending,
throwing, and passing. These involve telic aspect and, in the case of teach-
ing, throwing, and passing, a late incorporation of the PP.
Verbs meaning ‘teach’ and ‘learn’ are less stable than e.g. ‘give’. The verb
læran means ‘teach, show’ in Old English, as (33) shows, but disappears.
(33)	 and to him eallum spræc: “Ic can eow læran langsumne ræd . . .”
and to them all spoke: I can you teach/show enduring counsel
‘And he said to them: “I can show you enduring council.” ’
(DOE, Christ and Satan 247–8)
The telic verb teach also retains most of its syntax but its meaning narrows
from ‘show, make see’, as in (34), and ‘teach’, as in (35), to just ‘teach’,
although it is sometimes hard to keep the two meanings separate.
(34) a. Tæhte þa þam biscope . . . sumne gedefne munuc,
Showed then the bishop . . . some proper monk
þæs noma wæs Andreas
whose name was Andreas
‘Then, he pointed out to the bishop a suitable monk, whose name
was Andrew.’ (OED, Bede, 254.9–11)
b. Eft he him tæhte to fultome ðæt he him
After he him showed to help that he him
gename ane iserne hearstepannan.
take an iron frying-pan
‘After that, he showed him how to protect himself by taking an
iron pan.’
(OED, Alfred Pastoral Care 161.6–7)
Ditransitives 207
(35)	 Se	 Halga	 Gast	 ðe	 tæhð	 rihtwisnysse.
The	holy	 ghost	thee	teaches	rightfulness
‘The holy ghost teaches you rightfulness.’ (OED, Ælfric Homilies I. 322)
Old English leornian has one meaning, namely ‘to acquire knowledge’, but
Middle English has the additional meaning of ‘to impart knowledge’, as
in (36), and this actually continues up to the present in certain varieties of
English (as attested by examples in COCA and the BNC). I have listed all
instances from the MED; they show that DP DP is the only possible pattern.
(36)	a.	To lokenn watt itt lerneþ uss. Off [ure] sawle nede.
‘To see what it teaches us about our soul’s needs.’
(MED, Ormulum, 19613)
b.	Who has þe lerned al þis witt?
‘Who has taught thee all this knowledge?’
(MED, 1330 Body & S., 5, Auch, 36)
c.	 Þus thei lerne hire þe lawe.
‘In this way, they taught her the law.’ (MED, 1390 Susan. Vrn 23)
d.	Logyke I lerned hir.
‘Logic, I taught her.’ (MED, Piers Pl. B, LdMisc 581, 10.171)
e.	 She . . . lerned Jason enchauntementis.
‘She taught Jason enchantments.’
(MED, 1450 Scrope Othea, StJ-C H.5, 58)
f.	 My fadyr . . . had ful grete diligens To lerne me the sotyl bookys alle.
‘My father had great diligence to teach me all the subtle books.’
(MED, c1450 Capgr. St.Kath., Arun 396, 4.1329)
g.	I shall lerne you a new play.
‘I’ll teach you a new play.’ (MED, 1470 Malory Wks., Win-C, 445/17)
h.	Exaumple I wyl now lerne the.
‘I’ll teach you an example.’ (MED, 1400s Lydgate Pilgr., Vit C.13, 2896)
i.	 This was the lessyn that he lerned me.
(MED, a1500 Cmb Ff.1.6, 114)
j.	 I shall lerne hem a new daunce.
(MED, late 1400s, Trin-CR.3.19, 957)
208  Ditransitives
k.	Woldest þou for godes loue lerne me my Crede.
‘Would you, for the love of God, teach me my creed.’
(MED, PPl. Creed, Trin-C R.3.15, 402)
l.	 Who lerneth a scornere, doth wrong he to hymself.
‘Whoever teachers someone who scorns wrongs himself.’
(OED, Wyclif 1382)
If learn has a theta-role of Experiencer and Theme in Old English, the
Causer is added in (36). That suggests that the inner aspect of that verb is
telic and that the aspect remains stable.
Neither teach nor learn occur with a DP PP pattern in its older uses (up to
the 16th century), which means there was no meaning as in (7b) with a par-
tially affected Recipient. That may be because the DP PP pattern incorporates
an initially optional PP as a Goal. This situation changes, as the following
data in Table 8.2 from the COCA show, where both patterns occur frequently.
Another verb that is causative in Old English is send. The OED provides
the meaning of ‘cause to go’, as in (37), or ‘force to go’ in (38), or other
causative meanings.
(37)	a.	Heonu ic sendo iuih suæ scip in middum uulfa.
	 Behold I send you like sheep in middle wolfs
	 ‘Behold, I send you like sheep amidst wolves.’
	 (OED, Lindisfarne, Matthew 10.16)
b.	He sende his patriarken and propheten for to bodien his tokume.
	 ‘He sent his patriarchs and prophets in order to announce his
arrival.’
	 (OED, c1175, Lambeth Hom. 153)
(38)	 & symble	 hine	 &	 in	 fyr	 &	 on	 wætro  sende
	 and often	 him	 and	 in	 fire	 and	 in	 water forced to go
	 þætte  hine losade vel fordyde.
Table 8.2  Teach with two patterns in Modern English
DP PP DP DP
teach English to X 23 X English 28
music to X 15 X music 8
reading to X 7 X reading 10
Ditransitives 209
	 so that him lost or destroyed
	 ‘And often it sent him into the fire and into the waters to destroy him.’
	 (OED, Lindisfarne Mark 9.22)
This verb is frequently used with an adverbial PP, as in (39), with an object
possibly left out in (39b). Such a PP occurs in 21 of the 147 instances of
sendan in the DOE.
(39)	a.	ðæt he hio wolde to his aldormen onsendan, swa swa hio bædan . . .
	 that he them wanted to his chiefs send, as so they asked . . .
	 ‘That he wanted to send them to his chiefs as they had asked.’
	 (DOE, Bede 428.11–12)
b.	Þa sendan hie to Philippuse, & bædon þæt he . . .
	 then send they to Philip and asked that he . . .
	 ‘Then, they sent to Philip and asked him to . . .’ (DOE, Orosius,
63.8–9)
There are early ditransitive DP DP constructions, as in (40a), and we saw an
early Middle English example before in Chapter 4 (example (53)) and that
is repeated as (40b).
(40)	a.	þæs þe	 he hine sylfne	 us sendan wolde
	 because	 he him self	 us send wanted
	 ‘Because he wanted to send us himself.’ (DOE, Exeter Book, Christ 127)
b.	He sent þe his sonde wið-uten gretinge.
	 ‘He sends thee his instructions without greetings.’
	 (OED, Laȝamon Brut, Caligula 13160)
Thus, send in its original meaning is causative and has an optional Goal.
The same optional PP occurs with the other verb that Rappaport Hovav
and Levin (2008) mention as having a caused motion meaning, namely
throw. When it first appears, it has no PP at all, as (41) shows.
(41)	 Æfter ðisum wordum. het se wælhreowa hine hon. on heardre hen-
gene. and his sidan bærnan. mid hatum ligum. and mid hengene
ðrawan. to langere hwile.
‘After these words, the cruel tyrant ordered him to be hanged on a
hard gibbet and to burn his sides with hot flames and to twist/torture
(him) on the gibbet for a long time.’ (OED, Ælfric, Thorpe II, 308)
210  Ditransitives
It is originally both transitive and intransitive, with the meaning of ‘twist
something’ so clearly telic. The MED lists (42), from 1300, as the first
instance of the ‘hurl’ meaning, an extension of ‘twist’.
(42)	 Horn þreu him ouer þe brigge
‘Horn threw him over the bridge.’ (MED, King Horn 63/1076)
The PP is optionally there but not as Goal, as (43) shows. Searching the
Helsinki Corpus and the MED, it appears that the Goal use arises later, as
in (44).
(43)	 þet we ne þrauwe naȝt oure pre-ciouse stones to-uore þe zuyn.
that we not throwe not our precious stones before the swines
‘That we shouldn’t throw our precious stones (pearls) before the
swines.’ (MED, Ayenbite 152.36)
(44)	 a.	Not one to throw at a dog. (OED, Shakespeare, AYLI, I, iii, 3)
b.	
I see that nose of yours, but not that dogge, I shall throw it to.
(Shakespeare, Othello, IV, i, 147)
So, throw is an example of an originally telic verb that incorporates an
adverbial as Goal.
Pass is a French loan and has a similarly telic origin. It starts with the
meaning of ‘surpass’, as in (45), and can also be used as an unaccusative and
causative, with the meaning of ‘excel, move forward’, as in (46). The first
ditransitive appears after Middle English, as in (47), which remains telic.
The Late Modern period shows both DP DP and DP PP use, as shown in
(48), with caused motion meaning.
(45)	 Alswa as a charbuche is betere þen a iacinct . . . al swa passeð meiden
onon te mihte of meiðhad widewen & iweddede
‘Like a carbuncle is better than a jacinth . . . so surpasses a maiden, on
the power of maidenhood, widows and wedded people.’
(OED, Hali Meiðhad, Bodl. 34, 38 646)
(46)	 We moten . . . þurch bitter penitence passi to heouene.
‘We must . . . through bitter penitence move to heaven.’ (OED, Ancrene
Riwle, Cleo. C.vi, 245)
(47)	 a.	
If . . . like a Father you will deale with him, And passe my daughter
a sufficient dower (OED, Shakespeare, Taming of Shrew IV 4 44)
b.	finally passing him the gourd empty to the last drop (CLMET—
Arnold 1905)
Ditransitives 211
(48)	 some of the people saw the fellow take my watch and pass it to another
of his gang (CLMET—Huish 1836)
In this subsection, originally causative verbs like teach, learn, send, throw,
and pass have been examined. The first one is late to get a DP PP pattern and
the second one never does. That’s because the adverbial nature of the Old
English PP doesn’t fit the meaning. The three last ones (send, throw, and
pass) have the DP PP pattern but with a much less argumental PP.
5.2 Duratives
In this section, we’ll examine verbs of communication, which are typically
durative. In Old English, they regularly appear with a PP, as we saw in sec-
tion 3, and we’ll see that they haven’t changed a lot.
Pesetsky (1995: 143) argues there is a difference between the communi-
cation of propositions (e.g. claim) and the manner of communication (e.g.
shout). The latter are restricted to the DP PP pattern because the action is
more continuous. We’ll see that these verbs have not changed much. The
most common Old English verbs of speaking and saying are sprecan and
cweðan, as in (49), which can have a CP and PP complementing it because
it communicates a proposition.
(49)	a.	ðonne	 bið	 cweden	 to	 me . . . 	 hwer	 is	 god	 ðin.
then	 be	 said	 to	 me. . . 	 where	 is	 God	 your
‘Then, it will be said to me: where is your God?’
(OED, Vespasian Ps. xli.11)
b.	hi	 cwædon	 to	 criste:	 drihten.	 gif	 þu	 her
they	said	 to	Christ	lord	 if	 you	 here
andwerd	 wære.	 nære	 ure	 broþer	 forþfaren.
present	 were.	 not.was	our	brother	died
‘They said to Christ “our brother wouldn’t be dead if you had been
here.” ’
(Ælfric, Homilies, Clemoes, 246)
Tellan and secgan also appear and later replace sprecan and cweðan com-
pletely. As in Modern English, tellan allows both DP DP and DP PP, as
shown in (50ab). Unlike in Modern English, secgan allows a DP DP, as
shown in (51a). The verb is also just transitive, as in (51b).
(50)	 a.	
Ða ongan Nepotianus to tellanne þan casere eall be þan halegan
Nicolao.
Then began N. to tell the emperor all about the holy N.
212  Ditransitives
‘Then, Neptianus began to tell the emperor about the holy Nico-
lao.’ (DOE, LS, St Nicolas, Treharne 1997: 547)
b.	þonne sceal he þæt eal tellan to Gode.
then shall he that all tell to God
‘Then, he tell God all.’ (DOE, Rule of Benedict 4.17.18)
(51)	a.	Se	 engel	 hire	 sægde	 þæt	 heo	 sceolde	 modor	 beon
The	 angel	 her	 said	 that	 she	 should	 mother be
‘The angel told her that she would be the mother.’
(OED, Blickling Homilies 9)
b.	þu leogende sagast þæt þu sie þæt he is.
‘you falsely say that you are what he is.’ (DOE, Blickling Homilies)
The verb cweðan dies out at the end of Middle English and say and tell
continue, both now with to preceding the IO.
5.3  Light Verbs and Particles
In this chapter, I have argued that the class of ditransitives is a mixture of
telic and durative verbs. The former are represented by the causative verbs
and the latter by verbs that have an Agent (as shown by the use of e.g.
deliberately). In this section, I provide additional evidence for this split:
durative verbs have a light verb do variant and telic verbs have frequent
particles.
In Middle English, as we saw in chapter 4, make and do are often syn-
onymous, but that changes. If the light verb can be indicative of the aspect,
as I have argued (e.g. in chapter 7), do we see evidence with ditransitives?
The light verb do is used as a causative but has also been used to indicate
duration (see chapter 9). The MED (s.v. don) provides many examples of a
ditransitive light verb, e.g. (52); the OED has (53).
(52)	a.	He	 deþ 	 forȝyfenesse	 dæþbetendum	 monnum
He	gives	forgiving	 death.bed	 men
‘He gives forgiveness to men at their deathbeds.’
(MED, c1175 Bod. Hom 343, 138/13)
b.	Fayn wolde I doon yow myrthe, wiste I how.
‘Gladly would I give you mirth, (if) I knew how.’
(MED, Chaucer CT.Prol. A.766)
Ditransitives 213
(53)	a.	It brussed his body, & dyd him greate payne.
‘It bruised his body and gave him great pain.’
(OED, Coverdale Bible 2 Macc. ix. 7)
b.	The woundes . . . Thei licken forto don him ese.
‘They lick the wounds to give him ease.’
(OED, Gower, Confessio Amantis, vi. l. 1015)
c.	 The which dyd them great trouble.
‘Which gave them great trouble.’
(OED, Berners tr. J. Froissart Chronicles. ccvii. 244)
d.	. . . diden him ealle hersumnesse swa swa hi scolden don here
abbot . . .
. . . gave him all obedience as they should give their abbot. . .
‘ . . . they gave him complete obedience, just as they should give
their abbot . . .’
(Peterborough Chronicle, Clancy 2009: 50)
In section 4, I mentioned the frequent prefixes, as in agifan. As in the case
of the transitives we saw in chapter 4, we expect some replacement of these
by particles and I will show that now for the telic use. The history of give
is of course complex, because it can be used with both orders of direct and
indirect object, as shown in (18) and (19), and already with a prepositional
object, as we saw in (22). From about 1400 on, many particles occur with
give; e.g. early ones appear in (54). The use of dide in (54a) is causative.
(54)	 a.	 [He] sende efter him & dide him ȝyuen up ðe abbotrice of Burch.
‘He sent after him and made him give up Peterborough.’
(Peterborough Chronicle anno 1132)
b.	til he aiauen up here castles
‘till they gave up their castles.’ (Peterborough Chronicle 1140, 52)
Render is a late Middle English loan and is often listed without an IO in the
OED with the meaning ‘recite, reproduce’. An early IO DO ditransitive is
given in (55).
(55)	 Everech son of a burgeys who is herre to his father, after the deth of his
father, come into ful court . . . and render to the baillives of the toun the
swerd with which his father was sworen to meyntenyn the fredom of the
toun as is fytting. (MED, c1436 Ipswich Domesday, Add 25011, 129)
214  Ditransitives
These often have a telic particle, as in (56ab), or a telic PP, as in (56c).
(56)	a.	Sche schal be rendred forth with hire.
‘She shall be given up with her.’ (MED, a1393, Gower CA Frf 3,
8.1253)
b.	to treat Cornick as an exception to the law and render him up to the
public as an adult (NOW Corpus 2006)
c.	I herd oþir crie . . . That . . . Yrendred were into religioun Or þei
hade yeris of discresioun. (MED, 1420, Lydgate Temple of Glas,
Tanner 201)
In this section, I have provided some examples of lexical reinforcements
of inner aspect and this shows that both IO DO and DO IO can be
modified.
6 Acquisition
It’s been known since Fischer (1971) that the dative alternation is acquired
late and that overgeneralizations of the alternation occur (Mazurkewich
1981). The reason is that, as with the causative/unaccusative alternation
discussed in chapter 4, children have to become aware of many idiosyn-
crasies. The overgeneralizations in (57) of the DP DP pattern (where adults
would have used DP PP) are taken from Mazurkewich and White (1984).
They show that this phenomenon persists late. See also Pinker (1989: 24–5).
The DP DP in (57) is replaced in adult English by a DP PP one.
(57)	a.	Pick me up all these things (5;2)
b.	Mummy, open Hadwen the door (6, both from Mazurkewich and
White 1984: 270)
Looking at the development of the alternation, from the very first file at age
2;3.4, Adam uses give with one object, as in (58), and also in the DP DP
pattern and with the IO first, as in (59).
(58)	 a.	I may give some
b.	give doggie
c.	 give paper pencil
(59)	 give doggie paper (all from Adam, 2;3.4)
Three months later, he produces (60ab), after his mother and Ursula (URS)
have used many DP PP constructions, as in (61).
Ditransitives 215
(60)	a.	give dat Cromer.
b.	give one Cromer.
(61)	 URS:	 do you want to give one to Cromer? (all from Adam 2;6.17)
Four months later, Adam is still using the DP DP order, as in (62a-d),
although his interlocutors keep using the DP PP one, as in (63).
(62)	a.	give me one.
b.	give me some. (Adam, 2;10.16)
c.	 give you Ginny cup. (Adam, 2;10.30)
d.	I going give Robin dat pencil. (Adam, 2;11.28)
(63)	 URS:	 going to give it to Robin? (Adam, 2;11.28)
The first DP PP Adam produces is (64) after many promptings by Ursula
and his mother and after that the two patterns alternate.
(64)	 I going put it outside give it to fish. (Adam, 2;11.28)
So, it seems that, certainly with the verb give, Adam is initially inclined to
use the DP DP form with the IO first. Pinker lists some of Adam’s overgen-
eralizations and they overgeneralize that pattern as well, as in (65) and (66).
(65)	You finished me lots of rings (Adam 4;11)
(66)	Mommy, fix me my tiger (Adam, 5;2, both from Pinker 1989: 24)
The acquisition data on two other verbs, send and teach, are interesting in
that, after a transitive use of send at age 2;8, Adam has a DP PP as his first
ditransitive, as in (67), and a particle, as in (68). The telicity of this verb is
therefore clearly understood. There aren’t so many instances of this verb in
the data but they are all as in adult English, e.g. (69).
(67)	 send that to Robin (Adam 3;3.4)
(68)	 send out. (Adam 3;3.18)
(69)	 send mine to Italy (Adam 4;7)
Teach in his corpus is intransitive, as in (70), or just has one object, as in
(71), but mostly has a DP IO and CP DO, as in (72).
(70)	 do you know my mommy teach? (Adam 5;2.12)
(71)	 teach people (Adam 3;8.26)
216  Ditransitives
(72)	 a.	I teach him how to walk on dat. (Adam 3;2.21)
b.	somebody teach me to sing. (Adam 3;8)
c.	 dat what you teach us to say (.) don’t you? (Adam 4;7)
In short, Adam uses one pattern consistently for each of the verbs, either
they are DP DP (with give) or DP PP (with send) or DP CP (with teach).
This suggests that he starts with one underlying aspectual characteriza-
tion. Remembering the division Rappaport Hovav and Levin (2008) make
between caused possession and caused motion, it is clear that the child sees
the two patterns as expressing these two meanings.
7 Conclusion
In this chapter, I have provided evidence that ditransitives can be durative
or telic verbs. Some of these verbs show a lot of stability throughout their
history while others don’t. Some are clearly causative, fitting the causative
structure of (3) and (4), adapted as (20) and (21). The PP in the DP PP pat-
tern is initially optional and the PP is an adverbial with verbs such as send
and throw, which fits with their meaning of caused motion. Light verbs and
particles can be used to reinforce this duality of aspect.
Some specific results concerning older ditransitives are that (a) many
ditransitives are causatives in Old English (e.g. send/teach) and have an
Experiencer/Goal added, (b) learn acquires a Causer and loses it, (c) some
are unaccusative, e.g. throw and pass, and (d) verbs of speaking are more
durative.
Acquisition data show that children continue to use a non-alternating
structure for a long time: with verbs like give, they use DP DP, but with
verbs like send, they use the opposite pattern. This indicates they initially
choose either structure (3) or (4) for each verb and only later decide that
verbs alternate between these two possibilities.
Fedan ‘feed’ is not ditransitive but causative in Old English, as the examples
in (73) show. The case of object is clearly accusative in (73ab) and possibly
so in (73c). The reason I discuss it as an exception is that, in late Modern
English, its use is mainly durative.
(73)	a.	Eower	 fæder	 se	 heofunlica	 foedeþ	 þa
your	 father	the	heavenly	 feeds	 those.ACC
‘Your heavenly father feeds them.’ (OED, Lindisfarne, Matthew vi. 26)
b.	He	 hi	 fedde	 mid	 fætre	 lynde	 hwæte	 and	 hunige.
he	 3P.ACC fed	 with	 fatter	 fat	 wheat	 and	 honey
‘He fed them with fat, wheat, and honey.’ (DOE, Paris Psalter, 80, 15)
c.	 He	 us	 is	 . . . 	 feder	 for	 he	 us	 fett.
he	 us	 is		 father because he	 us	 feeds
‘He is a father to us because he fed us.’ (OED, Cotton Hom. 233)
The late Old English (74) shows that the subject need not be a human, so it
is a Causer, not an Agent, and the object is marked accusative.
(74)	 hu	 þis	 land	 mihte	 eall	 þone	 here	 afedan.
how	this	land	can	 all	 that.ACC	army	feed
‘How this land can feed this entire army.’ (DOE, Peterborough Chron-
icle 1085a5)
In fact, feed continues to be causative into Modern English, as in (75a),
next to ditransitive, as in (76). The causative doesn’t allow the adverb delib-
erately or a second object, as (75b) shows is the case. Likewise, in the Old
English (73b) and (77), the second object is introduced by a preposition mid
‘with’, so the object is an adjunct.
Appendix
218  Ditransitives
(75)	 a.	
The Earth Can Feed, Clothe, and House 12 Billion People (http://
true-progress.com/the-earth-can-feed-clothe-and-house-12-billion-
people-306.htm)
b.	*The earth deliberately feeds us great food.
(76)	 Had Robert deliberately fed the info to Asa (COCA fiction 2004)
(77)	 And	 an	 þane	 dæg	 drehten	 angan	 erest	 fedan	 Israela	folc
and	 on	 that	 day	 lord	 began	 first	 feed	 Israel’s people
in	 þam	 westenne	 mid	 manan,	 þam	 heofenlican	 mete.
in	the	 desert	 with	mana,	 that	 heavenly	 food
‘And on that day the lord started first to feed Israel’s people in the
desert with mana, that heavenly food.’ (DOE, Napier 1883, no. 44:
‘Sunnandæges spell’ 70)
As mentioned, fedan is only telic, i.e. causative, in Old and Middle Eng-
lish, not a durative ditransitive. This fits its morphologically causative origin.
The Gothic verb fôdjan derives from Germanic *fôđjan. I am not clear how
this verb acquired the durative ditransitive use of (76), but that is the main
meaning from Middle English to the modern period. The MED lists feden
with one object, usually the recipient. From the 14th century onwards, there
is an intransitive use, as in (78a), but it is not clear if it is telic or durative.
The same is true with the reflexive us in (78b).
(78)	a.	She fedith on all maner of flesh.
‘She feeds on all kinds of flesh.’ (OED, 1486 St. Albans)
b.	. . . schulde fede hym self.
‘should feed itself.’
(OED, Trevisa tr. Higden Polychron. VI. 19)
The Corpus of Late Modern English lacks a ditransitive feed among its
1,379 instances. In (79), where I provide the first instances, the common
durative use is the norm.
(79)	 a.	When hungry dolphins feed on butchers meat.
b.	and that they feed frequently upon the Banks of Rivers . . .
c.	 and will give a supply as they feed, is much the best way.
d.	which is chiefly what these Fowls feed upon.
e.	and feed upon Frogs; or else, in warm Days, . . .
Ditransitives 219
f.	
and that all such as lie and feed in clear Streams, may be used
without . . .
g.	the Pasture where our Cows feed
h.	those that feed in rank Grass have more watery parts . . .
i.	 than those Cows which feed on short Grass: and sometimes, as
I . . .
j.	 in my other Works, the Cows feed upon Crow Garlick, or the
Alliaria, . . .
k.	
as I have observ’d above, where Cattle feed upon long rank
Grass . . .
The verb shows a mix of telic and durative uses, which the 265 instances
that immediately follow the preposition (up)on attest to. Thus, the verb feed
is not primarily a ditransitive in its history but causative and later acquires
a durative meaning.
1 Introduction
This book assumes that inner aspect defines the meaning of a verb and is part
of the cognitive structure. In this chapter, I will focus on changes in outer
aspect, in particular perfective and imperfective marking, by examining the
use of auxiliaries and present and past participles. Outer aspect is marked
in the syntax by an ASP(ect) Phrase. It has been discussed in chapter 2 as
being able to coerce the inner aspect or work together with it to reinforce it.
When a verb is being reanalyzed as durative, as in the case of feel, we might
expect an increased use of the imperfective and, when it is being reanalyzed
as telic, as in the case of stun, an increase of perfective might occur. We’ll see
that these expectations are not met and that outer aspect in fact has minimal
impact on the change of the inner aspect.
One of the main morphological changes in the history of English is from
explicitly marking perfective and boundedness to marking imperfective and
unboundedness. This has been observed by many, of course, e.g. Mossé
(1938), Scheffer (1975), Strang (1982), and Brinton (1988). Old English
marks perfectivity by means of a prefix, which disappears between 1150
and 1450. Old English optionally marks the progressive, through an aux-
iliary and present participle, which only becomes obligatory in the 19th
century. In chapter 6, I asked the question if changes in the outer aspect,
e.g. more use of the progressive, can have an effect on the inner aspect. The
answer provided in this chapter is ‘not much’. Instead, the progressive -ing is
shifting to marking continuous aspect rather than changing the inner aspect
of psych-verbs. See also Goossens (1994).
Los (2012) and Petré (2014) argue that the loss of verb-second and other
changes in word order mean a loss of a multifunctional preverbal position
and this causes a typological change from bounded to unbounded. By this
latter shift, they mean a particular structuring of the narrative and a change
from frequent anchoring by temporal markers to little such marking. In this
chapter, I focus on the verbal and nominal morphology, not on adverbs and
verb-second word order. I don’t think the shift is as early as Los and Petré
think.
9	 Changes in the Outer Aspect
Changes in the Outer Aspect 221
The outline of this chapter is as follows. In section 2, we look at outer
aspect in Modern English and in older stages in general. The demise of overt
perfective marking is sketched in section 3, and the introduction of progres-
sive marking and the possible shift to continuous in section 4. In section 5,
we’ll discuss other instances of a change involving the ASP(ect) Phrase, and
section 6 is a conclusion.
2  Perfective and Imperfective Aspect
In this section, I present some brief views of perfective and imperfective and
on how languages differ. I’ll start with Comrie’s representation of aspectual
oppositions and then show how current English marks its aspect.
Comrie (1976: 25) uses the classification of Figure 9.1. Perfective aspect is
used to describe an action/event as a completed whole whereas imperfective
aspect focuses on the internal structure of the action/event.
Within the imperfective category, the habitual describes “a situation which
is characteristic of an extended period of time, so extended in fact that the
situation referred to is viewed not as an incidental property of the moment
but, precisely, as a characteristic feature of a whole period” ­
(Comrie 1976:
27–8), where the continuous divides ongoing states into nonprogressives
(e.g. know English) or progressives (e.g. eating food).
Perfective aspect is not specially marked in Modern English, but the sim-
ple past tense often expresses perfectivity, as in (1a), but need not, as (1b)
shows.
(1)	a.	 You 
ate six donuts. (COCA spoken 2014)
b.	 She barely ate. (COCA Spoken 2015)
Figure 9.1  Classification of aspectual oppositions (from Comrie 1976: 25)
Perfective	imperfective
	 Habitual	Continuous
		Nonprogressive		Progressive
222  Changes in the Outer Aspect
The present and past perfects are also called anterior because they relate
something that happened before (‘at lunch’ and ‘eating hand sanitizer’) to a
later point (the present and ‘walking into the bathroom’), as in (2ab).
(2)	 a.	
You may forget what you have eaten at lunch, but . . . (COCA spo-
ken 2015)
b.	 By the time Jennifer walked into the bathroom, Sydney had eaten a
couple of squirts of hand sanitizer. (COCA spoken 2007)
The present perfect is also used for resultative (They’ve left), continuative
(I’ve lived here forever), and experiential (I’ve been there) meanings. The
perfect in English is therefore not a perfective.
Within imperfective aspect, the habitual can be expressed by the simple
present or past or progressive, as in (3abc); the past habitual also uses spe-
cial modals, as in (4ab).
(3)	a.	 I walk there every day.
b.	I walked every day.
c.	I was walking every day then.
(4)	a.	 I used to walk there every day.
b.	I would walk there every day.
As for the continuous category, English makes a clear distinction between
nonprogressive and progressive aspect. These distinguish between stative
and activity verbs, respectively. Modern English marks nonprogressive as
simple present or past, as in (5ab), and -ing is not possible, as (5c) shows.
Present and past progressives are marked through -ing, as is shown in (6ab).
(6c) shows that the simple present is not possible for activity verbs, unlike
states in (5).
(5)	a.	 I know French.	 stative
b.	I knew French five years ago.
c.	*I am knowing French.	 (none in COCA; 3 in BNC)
(6)	a.	 She is walking right now.	 activity
b.	She was walking yesterday.
c.	*She walks right now.	 (not attested)
As we have seen in chapter 6, the -ing marking may be in the process of
being extended to stative verbs. This may mean (a) that those verbs are
changing their meaning and inner aspect, or (b) that the -ing is used for
continuous. I come back to this in sections 3.4 and 4.2.
Changes in the Outer Aspect 223
Not all languages work like English. For instance, (6c) is perfectly gram-
matical in Old English, Dutch, German, and French, where a specially
marked progressive is not required, as shown in (7) for French.
(7)	 Elle	 écrit 	 une	 lettre.	French
she	 write-PRES	a	 letter
‘She writes a letter.’
Other languages are also different in using an imperfective that includes
habitual and continuous (e.g. the imparfait in French).
When English changes from marking perfectives by a ge-prefix, as in (8a),
to optionally using particles, as in (8b), and marking progressives, as in (9),
it continues to use the simple past, as in (1a), which functions as a perfective.
(8)	a.	 Her	 Hengest	 &	 Æsc	 gefuhton	 wið	 Walas
Here	Hengest	 and	Ash	 fought	 against	Welsh
&	 genamon	 unarimenlicu
and	took	 countless
‘In this year Hengest and Ash fought against the Welsh and took
countless things.’ (Peterborough Chronicle, 473.1)
b.	 They fought it out.
(9)	 on	 feohtende	 wæron	 oþ	 niht
on	 fighting	were	 until	 night
‘(they) were fighting until night’
(Anglo Saxon Chronicle C, D, E, 871 Thorpe 1861: 138–9)
Languages can have a lot of grammatical aspect or relatively little and
change this aspect sometimes suddenly (as in the case of ge-) or slowly (as in
the case of -ing). Lexical aspect changes not at all or very predictably, as we
have seen in the previous chapters.
Having shown that languages differ in the outer aspect that they use,
I turn to the specific changes in perfective aspect in the next section.
3 
Changes in Telicity and Perfectivity
and the Perfective Cycle
In this section, I’ll look at several changes: (a) the loss of perfective pre-
fixes and their renewal by telic particles, (b) the use of have and be aux-
iliaries, and (c) the loss of specialized object case and a rise of the article.
The first two changes follow the stages of a Perfective Cycle, as in Bybee
224  Changes in the Outer Aspect
and Dahl (1989: 56) and Bybee, Perkins and Pagliuca (1994). The third
change is connected to the loss of perfective marking. Each change is dis-
cussed in a separate section, which is followed by a section on the larger
implications.
3.1  Prefixes and Particles
In Old English, the perfective may be marked by a ge-prefix on the lexical
verb, as in (8) above and in (10).
(10)	 &	 siððon	 mid	 his	 fingre	 gewrat
and	then	 with	his	finger	 wrote
‘And then he wrote with his finger.’
(Peterborough Chronicle, 656.70)
As we saw in chapter 4, this prefix is also used to mark transitives and resul-
tatives, as do other prefixes. The disappearance of the ge-prefix is probably
due to Norse influence. Areas of Norse influence, such as the Peterborough
Chronicle, lack ge- after 1130. Brinton (1988: 202 ff.) argues that ge- has
become “seriously over-extended” (p. 212) by Middle English. Mustanoja
(1960: 446) writes that ge- remains productive as a perfectivizer “down to
the 13th century” but around 1400, ge- is lost in all areas of England as a
marker of perfective.
Though ge- disappears, except with a few forms such as ge/ihaten in (11),
the form without ge- continues to be used as a perfective, as is shown by
wrat in (11). A particle emphasizing result is also often in use, as in (12) and
(13), but never becomes a grammaticalized perfective marker.
(11)	 Ðeo	 oðer	 boc	 is	 Exodus	 ihaten,	 þe	 Moyses wrat
This	 other	 book	 is	 Exodus	 called,	 REL	 Moses wrote.
‘The other book is called Exodus and Moses wrote it.’ (DOE, Craw-
ford 1922 313)
(12)	 Sum	 he	 iaf	 up
Some	he	gave	up
‘Some [castles], he gave up.’ (Peterborough Chronicle, 1140)
(13)	 he	 uuolde	 iiuen	 heom	 up	 Wincestre
he	wanted	give	 them	 up	Winchester
‘He wanted to give Winchester up to them.’ (Peterborough Chronicle,
1140)
Changes in the Outer Aspect 225
The structural changes involved in this latter shift are shown in (14) for (8).
The ge- is a grammatical marker whereas the particle adds a telic sense.
There are many different opinions regarding ge-. Hiltunen (1983: 56) says
that ge- is often meaningless in Old English. If ge- is indeed meaningless, the
perfective is not marked in Old English. That wouldn’t explain that ge- is
never used together with an -ing participle, as Denison (1993: 399) notes,
citing Nickel (1966). Because it doesn’t, it seems to express perfectivity, as is
also shown in the data in section 3.4.
Robertson and Law (2009) argue that a valency marker reanalyzes as
outer aspect and this could have happened to the particles in (12) and (13)
as well. In fact, the telic particle would be expected to replace the depleted
perfective but, up to the present, this hasn’t happened. A list of some overt
telicity markers in Modern English appears in Table 9.1. The ones listed
here are loans from Latin (mostly via French) and the original particle is still
visible, e.g. in e(x)-vaporate, con-tact, and com-pact.
There are currently two patterns with such particle verbs, i.e. (15) and (16).
(15)	 a.	to the few who will receive back their self-addressed, stamped
		 envelopes. (COCA 2008)
Table 9.1  Renewal of telicity by particles, overheard by the author
evaporate out report up include in extricate out
dissipate away issue out calculate out research out
extradite out order up compact down distribute out
receive in/back offer up present out copy out
reaccumulate back distill down contact back explode up/out
revise down
226  Changes in the Outer Aspect
b.	
Elizabeth’s accession allowed him to receive back his wife.
(BNC-GTB938)
(16)	 a.	will receive their money back (COCA 2005)
b.	a husband who changed his mind to receive his wife back without
ceremony. (BNC-HTX2122)
Although in standard English, (15) is not possible with a pronominal object,
children produce these, as in (17) and (18).
(17)	 You can’t open up it because it is glued on. (Abe, 2.11.21, Kuczaj
corpus)
(18)	to pick up it. (Abe 3.4.08, Kuczaj corpus)
There are also 40 or more (just with up and it) of these sentences in the
spoken COCA, as (19) shows (though these did not appear in the BNC).
(19)	 somebodys going to go to that phone and pick up it. (COCA spoken
2005)
The change towards (15) and (17) to (19) is expected because it moves the
telic adverb closer to being an ASP head in (14b).
Let’s relate all these changes to the Perfective Cycle, mentioned before.
Bybee, Perkins and Pagliuca (1994: 105) suggest (20) where lexical result
markers are reanalyzed as grammatical aspect.
(20)	 Perfective Cycle
Resultative	>	Anterior	>	Perfective/Past
The resultative nature of ge- is no longer present in Old English but exists in
Gothic, as Streitberg (1891), Lloyd (1979), and others have argued. As far
as I know, there is no mention of an anterior stage in Gothic or Old English.
Thus, of the cycle in (20), we see Old English ge- in the last stage in (8) and
(10). What would have been expected is for the resultative particles of (12)
and (13) to take over the perfective function by moving into the ASP head
in (14b), but that hasn’t happened to the present. That means the particle is
still in the resultative stage of (20). I show this in (21).
(21)	 Perfective Cycle
Resultative	>	Anterior	>	Perfective/Past
ge- (Gothic)	 ge- (Old English)
up, out, etc. (Modern English)
Changes in the Outer Aspect 227
In the next section, we’ll see a full cycle of have from resultative to anterior
in Modern English and an occasional reanalysis of have as past tense.
3.2 Auxiliaries
The resultative use of the have auxiliaries with a participle has been argued
by many to occur in Old English. The resultative arises from the possessive
have that has an object and where the participle indicates the result. Visser
(1973: 2189) mentions (22) as resultative.
(22)	 Gyt	 ge	 habbað 	 eowre	 heortan	 geblende?
If	 you	have	 your	 hearts	 blinded
‘If your hearts are blinded.’	(DOE, West Saxon Gospels, Mark 8.17)
Carey (1994, 1995) also argues for a change from resultative to anterior and
her results are given in Table 9.2. Present state adverbials, such as nu ‘now’ in
(23), are gradually replaced by anterior adverbials, such as ær ‘before’ in (24).
(23)	 ða cwæð se Wisdom: Nu <ic> hæbbe ongiten þine ormodnesse
then said the Wisdom: Now I have understood your unhappiness
‘Then Wisdom said: I now understand your unhappiness.’
(Boethius 13.15, from Carey 1994)
(24)	 and	 hæfde	 ær	 his	 ðing	 þearfum	 gedælede
and	had	 before	his	things	needy	 divided
‘He had earlier divided his things among the needy.’
(DOE, Homilies, Godden 289.29)
This shows a change from resultative to anterior, in accordance with (20).
Once the simple perfect arises, it becomes a competitor for the simple past,
as Mustanoja (1960: 504) explains using the two versions of Layamon.
Table 9.2 
Changes in the have perfect in Old and Middle English, from Carey
(1995: 86)
	 Alfred	 Ælfric	 Layamon	Gawain
		 900 CE	 1050 CE	 1250 CE	 1375 CE
Present state	 50 (38.8%)	 37 (35.6%)	 20 (12.4%)	 0
Anterior	 0	 0	 8 (5%)	 7 (14.9%)
		
Total	129	 104	161	47
228  Changes in the Outer Aspect
The auxiliaries have and be are not generally used for perfective or ante-
rior aspect in Old English. If Old English doesn’t have a special anterior,
what is responsible for expressing the anterior? MacLeod (2012: 226–7)
writes that
the preterite [simple past] and the periphrastic perfect and pluperfect were
available in Old English as a means of expressing the semantic and prag-
matic content belonging to the perfect and pluperfect domains, but . . .
these two formal categories differed in their perceived stylistic value.
So, in Old English, have and a past participle sometimes express anterior
aspect and obligatorily do so in late Middle English.
The cline in (20) also predicts a stage where the anterior becomes perfec-
tive and then past. This hasn’t happened in English but it has in German
and Dutch, where the phenomenon is known as the ‘Präteritumschwund’
[past-disappearance] (cf. Abraham and Conradie 2001) because the simple
past is replaced by have and participle, as shown in (25).
(25)	 Ik	 heb	 dat	 gisteren	 gedaan	Dutch
I	 have	that	yesterday	done
‘I did that yesterday.’
There are stages of English where (26) to (28) appear, from different centu-
ries and varieties, but this is not part of standard English.
(26)	a.	he hath acordyng to youre desyre spoken Yeluerton yesterday.
‘He spoke to Yelverton yesterday, as per your wish’
(Paston Letters, #184, anno 1465, Margaret)
b.	I haue send to Ser Thomas Howys yesterday . . .
‘I sent yesterday to Sir Thomas Howys’
(Paston Letters, # 190, anno 1465, Margaret)
c.	 I haue yesterday sent to Herry . . .
‘I sent to Harry yesterday . . .’ (Paston Letters, #352, anno 1472,
John III)
(27)	The river has fallen yesterday and to-day nearly eighteen inches.
(COHA 1820)
(28)	 Anyway (pause) three people have phoned yesterday. (BNC spoken)
These might suggest that the English present perfect is a simple past in
those varieties. Various scholars have discussed the loss of the simple past
Changes in the Outer Aspect 229
in English, e.g. Zieglschmid (1930). However, there are different changes
happening. On the one hand, Elsness (1997), investigating the relationship
between the simple past and the present perfect, shows that, after an initial
increase of the perfect, there is currently a move back to a use of the simple
past or at least not a reanalysis as past, as in other Germanic languages
(Elsness 1997: 347). On the other hand, Fryd (1998) and Walker (2011,
2017) have shown that certain varieties are in fact starting to use the present
perfect as emphatic past.
Relating the changes in have to the Perfective Cycle, we can see that the
developments from (22) to (28) follow this cycle. The last stage is for have
to be used as a past and that occurs infrequently in English, e.g. in (26) to
(28), but it does occur in related languages.
(29)	 Resultative		   >	 Anterior	 >  Perfective/Past
have (Old English)	 have (Old and Middle English)	 have (Germanic)
(29)	 can be added to (21) showing change and renewal.
3.3  Case and Articles
As has been discussed in chapter 4, there is an increase in articles at the same
time that there is a loss of ge- and special object cases. I mention these here
because it is a reaction to the loss of perfective marking. Since I provide
quite a bit of detail in that chapter, I will here only come back to the larger
picture, as in (30), partially repeated from section 4.2 in chapter 4.
In (30), ASP is the place of aspectual/affectedness marking. In Old English,
ge- is used for perfective and to mark affectedness, as in (30a). The latter
function is taken over in early Middle English by the article but not the mark-
ing of the perfective aspect, which is no longer explicitly marked, as in (30b).
So, after the loss of ge-, the perfective is marked by the simple past and
definiteness of the object by articles.
230  Changes in the Outer Aspect
3.4  Larger Implication of the Loss of the Perfective
So far, we have discussed changes in perfective marking. Is there evidence
of an impact of these changes on changes in inner aspect? Perfective is used
to indicate the completion and so could be used to reinforce a telic verb or
to coerce a durative into a telic one. In the absence of such a marker in the
stage where English is losing ge-, are telic verbs seen as durative?
In this section, I first look in detail at a passage from late Old English,
a stage where ge- is disappearing, adapting the translation from Thorpe
(1861). I conclude that, in this entry, the effect of outer aspect is to reinforce
telicity on telic verbs, but that many verbs appear without this reinforce-
ment and don’t change their inner aspect. There is one instance of progres-
sive -ende that is reinforcing a durative, although that analysis depends on
the exact meaning of the verb. I then discuss data by Elsness that shows
minor impact of the use of outer aspect on inner aspect.
As the loss of ge- (and other perfective prefixes) is taking place, e.g. in
the last part of the Peterborough Chronicle, the past tense verbs that are
affected are the telic ones. I have randomly selected the entry for the year
1100 and will comment on the relation between inner and outer aspect for
all 70 verbs and auxiliaries in this entry.
In (31), the durative verbs heold and sædan are ge-less but the telic verb
gebroht has the prefix. This suggests a reinforcing effect rather than a coerc-
ing one and this can be seen in other examples. The first instance in (31)
involving ‘to see’ is the passive gesewen, and the second geseon is anterior,
which is possibly marked by ge- rather than by ‘have’ in the modern trans-
lation; onfeng is similarly anterior. The form of bebyrged is as expected
because the be-prefix adds transitivity.
(31)	 On þison geare se cyng Willelm heold his hired . . . & to þam Pen-
tecosten wæs gesewen innan Barrucscire æt anan tune blod weallan
of eorþan. swa swa mænige sædan þe hit geseon sceoldan. And þær
æfter . . . wearð se cyng Willelm on huntnoðe fram his anan men mid
anre fla ofsceoten. & syððan to Winceastre gebroht. & on þam bisco-
price bebyrged. þæt wæs þæs þreotteðan geares þe he rice onfeng.
‘In this year, King William held his court. . . . And at Pentecost, blood
was seen to well from the earth in Berkshire at a certain town, as many
said that should have seen it. And thereafter . . . King William was shot
while hunting, by an arrow from his own men, and afterwards (he
was) brought to Winchester and buried in the cathedral. This was the
thirteenth year after he had assumed his rule.’
Part (32) lacks prefixes or particles but has a progressive marker -ende
on the verb tirwan that is translated in Bosworth and Toller as ‘provoke,
irritate’ but in a durative meaning. In Modern English, this is more of a
telic verb so there the ending would actually have coerced the verb into a
Changes in the Outer Aspect 231
durative meaning, but that is not the case in Old English considering the
dictionary examples. Its Dutch cognate tergen is also durative. The three
instances of a simple past mark an anterior because the ‘he’ is dead.
(32)	 He wæs swiðe strang & reðe ofer his land . . . & swiðe ondrædend-
lic. & þurh yfelra manna rædas þe him æfre gecweme wæran. & þurh
his agene gitsunga. he æfre þas leode mid here & mid ungylde tyrwig-
ende wæs.
‘He had been very harsh and severe ruling his land . . . ; and very
formidable; and through the counsels of evil men, who to him had
always been agreeable, and through his own avarice, he had always
been bothering the people with an army, and with injustice.’
The next part in (33) has a weakened prefix on afeoll and aras, ge- on
gesealde and gesette. All of these are prefixed to telic verbs and one is rein-
forced with the particle up. Of the two verbs not marked, feollan remains
telic even without a prefix and heold is durative to begin with.
(33)	 Forþan þe on his dagan ælc riht afeoll. & ælc unriht for Gode & for
worulde up aras. Godes cyrcean he nyðerade. & þa biscoprices &
abbotrices þe þa ealdras on his dagan feollan. Ealle he hi oððe wið feo
gesealde. oððe on his agenre hand heold. & to gafle gesette.
‘Because during his days all order broke down, and every wrong rose
up before God and before the world. God’s church he lowered (in
esteem) and the bishoprics and abbacies, whose heads died in his days.
All, he either sold for a fee or held them for himself and rented them
out.’
The part that follows has the simple past stative verbs wolde and wæs three
times. The simple past heafde may be a resultative of the kind that is men-
tioned in (29) with gesette as its resultative participle. The unmarked verb
ylde is durative and the remaining two verbs ætywde and gewat are telic and
their prefixes are in line with that.
(34)	 forþan þe he ælces mannes gehadodes & læwedes yrfenuma beon
wolde. & swa þæt þæs dæges þe he gefeoll. he heafde on his agenre
hand . . . ealle to gafle gesette. And þeah þe ic hit læng ylde. eall þet þe
Gode wæs lað & rihtfullan mannan. eall þæt wæs gewunelic on þisan
lande on his tyman. & forþi he wæs forneah ealre his leode lað. &
Gode andsæte. Swa swa his ænde ætywde. forþan þe he on midde-
wardan his unrihte . . . gewat.
‘Because he wanted to be the heir of every man, ordained and lay, so
that on the day that he fell he had in his own hand . . . , all rented for
232  Changes in the Outer Aspect
a fee. And though I may be boring, all that was loathsome to God and
righteous men, it was customary in this land in his time. And for this
he was loathed by nearly all his people, and odious to God, as his end
testified. Because he departed in the midst of his unrighteousness . . .’
The passage in (35) starts with a coordinated, past tense passive (wæs ofsla-
gen . . . bebyrged) and another passive that expresses an anterior (bebyrged
wæs ‘had been buried’). All of these participles have prefixes that mark
perfective and transitive. The next simple past is the stative wæron. Then
follow the telic gecuron, geaf, and for, which are mixed in having prefixes
or being a simple past. The simple past wæron marks the anterior; behet has
a be-prefix, emphasizing its transitivity; and stodan is durative, as expected
without ge-.
(35)	 On þæne þunresdæg he wæs ofslagen. & þæs on morgen bebyrged. &
syðþan he bebyrged wæs. þa witan þe þa neh handa wæron. his broðer
Heanrig to cynge gecuran. & he þærrihte þæt biscoprice on Winceas-
tre Willelme Giffarde geaf. & siþþan to Lundene for. & on þan Sun-
nandæge þær æfter toforan þam weofode on Westmynstre Gode &
eallan folce behet ealle þa unriht to aleggenne þe on his broðer timan
wæran. & þa betstan lage to healdene þe on æniges cynges dæge
toforan him stodan.
‘On Thursday he was slain and buried in the morning and, after he had
been buried, the councilors that were close at hand chose his brother
Henry as king. And he immediately gave the bishopric of Winches-
ter to William Giffard and afterwards went to London; and on the
Sunday thereafter, before the altar at Westminster, he promised God
and all the people, to put down all the injustices that had been in his
brother’s time, and to maintain the best laws that stood in any king’s
day before him.’
There are also two infinitives in (35), to aleggenne and to healdenne, and
these follow the same pattern, telic in the first and marked by a- and dura-
tive in the second.
In (36), I’ll point to the most interesting verbs, not all past tense, although
all verbs are bolded. The telic verbs with ge-/a- are gehalgode, abugan,
gebring, and gefaren and the telic ones without are wurdon and niman. The
durative verbs are without: sworan, healdan, and dyde.
(36)	 And hine syððan æfter þam se biscop of Lundene Mauricius to cynge
gehalgode. & him ealle on þeosan lande to abugan. & aðas sworan. &
his men wurdon. And se cyng sona æfter þam be þære ræde þe him
abutan wæran. þone biscop Rannulf of Dunholme let niman. & into
þam ture on Lundene let gebringon. & þær healdan. ða to foran
Changes in the Outer Aspect 233
Sancte Michaeles mæssan com se arcebiscop Ansealm of Cantwarby-
rig hider to lande. swa swa se cyng Heanrig be his witena ræde him
æfter sende. forþan þe he wæs ut of þis lande gefaren. forþan mycelan
unrihte þe se cyng Willelm him dyde.
‘And then, the Bishop of London, Maurice, consecrated him to king
and in this land everyone submitted to him and swore oaths and
became his men. And the king, soon after this, by the advice of those
that were around him, allowed men to take the Bishop Ranulf of Dur-
ham and bring him into the Tower of London and hold him there.
Then, before Michaelmas, Archbishop Anselm of Canterbury came
here to this land, as King Henry, by the advice of his councilors, had
sent after him, because he had gone out of this land because of the
great injustices that King William had done to him.’
The last part of the entry for the year 1100 has clear telic use of the ­prefixes—
quite a range in fact—in genam, forgifen, bewæddade, gehalgode, forðferde,
and underfangen.
(37)	 And siðþan sona heræfter se cyng genam Mahalde him to wife Malcol-
mes cynges dohter of Scotlande. & Margareta þære goda cwæne Ead-
wardes cynges magan. & of þan rihtan ængla landes kynekynne. & on
sancte Martines mæssedæg heo wearð him mid mycelan weorðscipe
forgifen on Westmynstre. & se arcebiscop Ansealm hi him bewæd-
dade. & siððan to cwene gehalgode. And se arcebiscop Thomas of
Eoferwic her æfter sona forðferde. ðeoses ylces geares eac innan hær-
fest com se eorl Rotbert ham into Normandi. & se eorl Rotbert of
Flandran. & Eustatius eorl of Bunan fram Ierusalem. & sona swa se
eorl Rotbert into Normandig com. he wearð fram eallan þam folce
bliþelice underfangen. butan þam castelan ðe wæron gesætte mid þæs
cynges Heanriges manna. togeanes þan he manega gewealc & gewinn
hæfde.
‘And soon hereafter the king took for himself a wife, Maud, daughter
of Malcolm, King of Scotland, and of Margaret the good queen, the
relative of King Edward, and of the right royal race of England. And
on Martinmas day she was publicly given to him with much festivity
at Westminster, and Archbishop Anselm wedded her to him, and after-
wards hallowed her queen. And Archbishop Thomas of York soon
hereafter died. During the harvest of this same year Earl Robert also
came home to Normandy, and Earl Robert of Flanders, Eustace, Earl
of Boulogne, from Jerusalem. And as soon as Earl Robert came into
Normandy, he was joyfully received by all his people; except those of
the castles that were garrisoned with King Henry’s men. Against them
he had many contests and struggles.’
234  Changes in the Outer Aspect
The passage from the Peterborough Chronicle from (31) to (37) shows that
ge- marks a simple past as well as a passive and resultative and appears
with telic verbs rather than with durative ones, so that its role is reinforce-
ment rather than coercion. When additional resultative particles are used
in this passage, it is with telic verbs, e.g. in (33). Although I haven’t com-
mented on that, may telic verbs are reinforced by PPs, e.g. to cwene in
(37). The solitary -ende ending appears on a durative verb and so is also
reinforcing. Also clear from this passage is that the simple past is still used
for anterior aspect.
I’ll now turn to a more recent example of the relationship between inner
and outer aspect. Using a Modern (British and American) English corpus,
Elsness (1997) shows that the present perfect and simple past are in compe-
tition, with the simple past more frequent, especially in American English.
He also looks at the relationship between inner and outer aspect where the
results are mixed. Because the simple past is perfective, indicating result, it
is lowest with durative activity verbs, as Table 9.3 shows. When used with
those verbs, it is coercive. It also is quite frequent with telic accomplishment
verbs where it is also coercing the basic durative verb into a telic meaning.
The simple past is reinforcing with achievement verbs.
Table 9.3 shows that there is a reinforcing connection (a lower percent-
age of the simple past with activity verbs) and a coercing effect (a higher
percentage of simple past with accomplishments) between inner and outer
aspect. The difference between activity and accomplishments verbs is sig-
nificant (at p < .05, X2
5.65). The column listed as ‘other’ is mainly past
progressive and here we see a reinforcing, high percentage with activity
verbs.
This section has investigated the connection between outer and inner
aspect and has found, in the passage from the year 1100, that the outer
aspect mainly reinforces inner aspect. On the whole, the loss of ge- doesn’t
render telic verbs durative. The only clear case that we encountered (in
chapter 6) where an increased use of the perfective is used at the time of an
inner aspect change is with the verb stun.
Table 9.3 
The reinforcing/coercive power of outer aspect (adapted from Elsness
1997: 192)
Inner aspect Present perfect Simple past Other Total
Achievement 307 (25.7%) 803 (67.1%) 86 (7.2%) 1196 (100%)
Accomplishment 166 (13.6%) 966 (79.2%) 87 (7.1%) 1219 (99.9%)
Activity 56 (14.4%) 217 (55.9%) 115 (29.6%) 388 (99.9%)
State 93 (6.6%) 1146 (81.7%) 164 (11.7%) 1403 (100%)
Total 622 (14.8%) 3132 (74.5%) 452 (10.7%) 4206 (100%)
Changes in the Outer Aspect 235
4 
Changes in Durativity and Imperfectivity
and the Imperfective Cycle
In this section, I show that Old English doesn’t mark progressive aspect but
that such inflection is gradually introduced to become obligatory in the 19th
century. I also show an Imperfective Cycle, as suggested by Bybee and Dahl
(1989: 56; 58; 77ff) and more recently by Deo (2015) and Enke, Mühlenbernd
and Yanovich (2016). Finally, I come back to the relationship between inner
and outer aspect and to the question of what changes -ing may be undergoing.
4.1 
From Old English Optional -ing to Obligatory
Progressive Marking
Durative present tense verbs in older stages of English do not need an -ing.
This is shown for Old English in (38), for Middle English in (39), and for
early Modern English in (40).
(38)	 nu	 ic	 arisu	 cwið	 drihten
Now	I	 rise	 said	 lord
‘Now I rise up said the lord’ (Vespasian Psalter 11.6, Visser 663)
(39)	 What	 do	 ye,	 maister	 Nicholay?
What	do	you,	master	 Nicholay
‘What are you doing, master Nicholay?’ (Chaucer, Miller’s Tale 71.3437)
(40)	 What say you, Scarlet and John?
‘What are you saying, Scarlet and John?’ (Shakespeare, Merry Wives
I, i, 155)
There are also special ways to mark progressive action by means of a prepo-
sition and a participle, as in (41) from Old English, (42) from Middle Eng-
lish, and (43) from 17th-century English. As in Modern English, in older
English and in Dutch, as (44) shows, none of these involve states. Hence,
the auxiliary and participle mark the progressive, not continuous, aspect.
(41)	 Exorciste	 beoð	 on	 getacnunge	 Cristes	 gespellan
Exorciste	is	 on	teaching	 Christ’s	story
‘Exorciste is teaching the story of Christ’ (De Eccles. Gradibus)
(42)	 þær	 he	 wes	 an	 slæting
there	he	was	on	hunting
‘he was hunting there’ (Layamon, Caligula 6139)
236  Changes in the Outer Aspect
(43)	 I am upon writing a little treatise (Pepys’s Diary 31 Dec 1666, from
Visser 1998)
(44)	 *Ik ben dat antwoord aan het weten
I am that answer on the know
‘I know that answer.’
In addition to the forms with a preposition, there is, in Old English, a form
in -ende (or -ande or -inde depending on the regional variety) that resem-
bles the modern construction in (6a) above, namely (45) and (46), and in
Middle English, one in -yng/-ing, as in (47). It is often argued that in Old
English these participles are adjectives (cf. Mossé 1938, I: 3; Denison 1993:
373–7; Ziegeler 1999) and that the constructions involve copulas followed
by adjectival forms.
(45)	 ac se æglæca ehtende wæs
but the monster pursuing was
‘but the monster was chasing’ (Beowulf 159)
(46)	 þe þer were wuniende
who there were living
‘who were living there’ (Lambeth Homilies 41, from Mossé 1938, I: 81)
(47)	 We han ben waitynge al this fourtenyght
‘We have been waiting these two weeks’ (Chaucer, Knight’s Tale
38.929)
If these are adjectives, they are based on activity verbs. Table 9.4 provides
all forms in -ende in the Peterborough Chronicle and that shows that these
are activity verbs, which possibly makes -ende into an (early) optional
progressive.
The form in -yng (or -ing) in (47) is a Middle English innovation, but
whether it is a direct continuation of the ‑ende form continues to be con-
tested (see Mossé 1938: II, 36, Jespersen 1940: 415, and Ziegeler 1999).
Table 9.4  Forms in -ende in the Peterborough Chronicle
delnimende ‘taking part’, wuniende ‘living’, (on)feohtende ‘fighting’, fleogende
‘fleeing’, winnende ‘winning’, hergende ‘plundering’, tiligende ‘striving’, wircende
‘working’, biddende ‘praying’, (land)sittende ‘sitting’, forðbringende ‘bringing
forth’, scynende/scinende ‘shining’, byrnende ‘burning’, tyrwigende ‘annoying’,
wexende ‘waxing’, dreogende ‘threatening’, waniende ‘waning’, ridende ‘riding’,
gangende ‘going’, and sprecende ‘speaking’.
Changes in the Outer Aspect 237
In Chaucer, it is not that frequent after a form of to be (it is frequent as a
verbal noun and adjective). Some evidence that the two constructions are
connected is the fact that, in many texts, both forms occur in a seemingly
ambiguous fashion, as (48) and (49) show.
(48)	 Where þe dragun was wonande
where the dragon was living
‘where the dragon lived’ (Handlyng Synne 1760)
(49)	 Wher þe old man wonyng was
where the old man living was
‘where the old man lived’ (Handlyng Synne 8504)
In late Middle English, examples such as (50) show that the form with the
-ing(e) ending is (still) an adjective since the construction needs a case mark-
ing of before the object. This preposition becomes necessary after adjectives
(and nouns) cease assigning inherent case.
(50)	 thanne thei ben not scorninge of God but worschipyng
then they are not scorning of God but worshipping
‘then they don’t scorn God but worship him’ (Wyclif, Sermon, from
Visser 2002)
The construction becomes extinct at the beginning of the 20th century
(Visser:1993ff).
In the 15th century Paston Letters, the special progressive of (51) and (52)
is relatively rare (around 20 perhaps in a corpus of over 250,000 words) but
possibly expresses continuous aspect, as (53) shows.
(51)	 þer ys comyng, . . . , more than a thowsand
there is coming . . . more than a thousand
‘More than a thousand are coming’ (Paston Letters #187, anno 1465)
(52)	 where the seid felechep is abydung
‘Where the above-mentioned fellowship abides’ (Paston Letters #40,
anno 1452)
(53)	 syche mony that he is owyng
‘such money that he owes’ (Paston Letters #336, anno 1469)
It may not be the same construction, in accordance with what Jespersen
(1931) writes, because the present is typically expressed as in (54).
238  Changes in the Outer Aspect
(54)	a.	I send you
‘I am sending you’ (Paston Letters #3, anno 1425)
b.	I make þis day a new apelle
‘I am making a new appeal today’ (Paston Letters #4, anno 1426)
By the time of Thomas More, i.e. the early part of the 16th century, the
progressive is “employed rather sparingly” (Visser 1946: 248), as in (55).
Visser (p. 662) says, about both More and Shakespeare, that “at the time
the choice between the two possibilities did not yet depend on any fixed
principle”. The simple present is used frequently, as in (56).
(55)	 Now she’s going to my wife (Shakespeare, Merry Wives III, ii, 36)
(56)	a.	Whether go you. . . . To see your wife
‘Where are you going’ (Shakespeare, Merry Wives II, ii, 10)
b.	But what saies shee to mee? (Shakespeare, Merry Wives II, ii, 75)
In Shakespeare, there are a number of cases where the -ing progressive is
used with verbs such as live, as in (57), but not with know and see. So, it
seems to me that -ing is definitely used by Shakespeare as a progressive.
(57)	 To see what Friends are liuing, who are dead (1 Henry 4 V, iv, 165)
The pattern in (57) increases especially in the 19th and 20th centuries; see
Scheffer (1975: 110ff.). Checking certain simple present and progressive
forms (eat/is eating; run/is running) in Jane Austen’s early 19th-century
Emma, Persuasion, and Pride and Prejudice shows that by this time the use
is modern, with the simple present being used for habitual aspect, as in (58),
and the progressive for activity verbs, as in (59).
(58)	 a.	I dare not let my mother know how little she eats (Emma II, ch 9)
b.	whenever she comes to Highbury (Emma I, ch 10)
(59)	 a.	he is writing about it now (Persuasion ch 23)
b.	At this moment . . . Mr Elton is shewing your picture . . . (Emma I,
ch 7)
c.	 If you are looking for my master . . . he is walking towards the little
copse
(Pride and Prejudice II, ch 7)
As mentioned in van Gelderen (2004), additional evidence for the form
in -ing being optional early on can be found in 17th- and 18th-century
Changes in the Outer Aspect 239
(pedagogical) grammars. Only the ones from the middle of the 18th century
include the -ing form as a regular present. Wharton (1654: 54) does not
allude to a special present tense form ending in -ing, except in one sentence:
“A Participle of the Present tens signifieth the time present, and endeth in
ing; as loving, teaching, reading, hearing”, but no examples are given and
the inclusion of the stative love is unexpected. Miège (1688: 67), who was
born in France, comments that “[l]astly, ‘tis to be observed, that the English
has a peculiar Way of using the Verb to be, with a Participle of the Present
Tense. As, I am writing for I write . . .”. He also uses walking and reading,
so all his verbs are durative. Duncan (1731) and Fisher (1750: 86) clearly
imply that the -ing marks a present tense and progressive aspect. As late
as 1771, Fenning writes: “The present tense represents the action as now
doing, without any other limitation; as I sup, that is, I am now at supper”
(1771: 34), but the example is as in Greenwood (1711: 114), so it may have
been copied and may no longer be correct in the late 18th century. He also
mentions a passive as in the books are binding and dinner is dressing.
Considering this, one can say that the unmarked aspect changes in the
19th century. The sharp increase in the progressive around 1800 has been
the subject of studies from Scheffer (1975), Strang (1982), Kranich (2010),
Ziegeler (1999), Smitterberg (2005), and Hundt (2004). The latter three
focus on changes in the subject. As the construction becomes more frequent,
the number of inanimate, non-agentive subjects also goes up.
Contemporary grammars provide evidence for another possible change
involving how progressives are marked, namely do. Lane (1700: 44) includes
do in his list of “[t]he Auxiliaries of the Present Tense. . . do, dost, . . . ; am,
art, . . . ; as I do call . . .; I am calling”. Duncan (1731: 22) provides for
the present tense the following list: I carry, or I do carry, or I am carrying.
Lowth (1762: 40) remarks: “Do and did mark the action itself, or the time
of it, with greater distinction”. This suggests that around 1700, -ing and do
are both used for the present tense, with -ing more common and ‘winning
out’ around 1800.
However, Kortmann (2004) says that a progressive do is typologically rare
and that the habitual is more common. This latter use is found in (60) and
not the progressive one suggested in the grammars (using various corpora).
(60)	 it may well appeare, that the braine doth gouerne the tongue.
(Ascham, Scholemaster 185)
Let’s take a broader approach to progressives now.
4.2  The Imperfective Cycle and the Status of -ing
In many languages, actions that are ongoing are marked differently than
states, namely progressive as opposed to nonprogressive in Figure 9.1.
That means the outer aspect is reinforcing the inner aspect. This special
240  Changes in the Outer Aspect
progressive aspect (prog/PROG) may, however, generalize to include sta-
tive aspect as well, and then it becomes a marker of continuous or even
imperfective (IMPF) aspect; see Bybee and Dahl (1989) for examples. This
is known as the Imperfective Cycle and represented in (61), which is taken
from Deo (2015), who doesn’t distinguish imperfective from continuous in
the way Table 9.1 does.
(61)	 The Imperfective Cycle (Deo 2015); English IMPF = present;
progressive = -ing)
form(s)	 strategy	 languages
(a)	 IMPF	 zero-PROG	 Russian, Arabic
(b)	 (prog)IMPF	 emergent-PROG	 German, Dutch
(c)	 prog;IMPF	 categorical-PROG	 English, Swahili
(d)	 IMPF	 generalized-PROG	 Turkish, Tigre
In (61), stage (a) means that there is one general imperfective form for states
and activities, as in (62).
(62)	a.	ana	 a-erif	 Standard Arabic
	 I	 IMPF-know, ‘I know.’
b.	ana	 a-ktub
	 I	 IMPF-write, ‘I am writing.’
Stage (b) has optional, emerging progressive, as shown in (63) for Dutch,
with (63a) being the optional progressive and (63b) a present tense with a
similar meaning.
(63)	a.	Ik ben een boek aan het lezen.	Dutch
I am a book on the reading
b.	Ik lees een boek.
I read a book
‘I am reading a book.’
Stage (c) is the one described in section 2 for English, where all activities are
marked with -ing, and (d) is the last stage where the progressive has gen-
eralized. Deo mentions this last stage as one relevant to current-day Hindi.
Older speakers use (64) for the present progressive but younger speakers see
this as a habitual. Instead, the younger speakers use (65) for the progressive,
Changes in the Outer Aspect 241
which is optional for older speakers. Note that the original ‘be’ and present
participle in (64) is already a form that must have been through the cycle.
(64)	 Mẽ	 kitab	 lykhti	 hũ	Urdu/Hindi
I	 book	writing	am
‘I am writing a book.’ (older speakers)
‘I write books.’ (younger speakers)
(65)	 Mẽ	 kitab	 lykh	 rehi	 hũ
I	 book	write	sit	 am
‘I am writing a book.’
As mentioned, the cycle in (61) doesn’t distinguish habitual and continuous.
Adding that gives us Figure 9.2.
Urdu/Hindi does use the present participle and auxiliary strategy with sta-
tive verbs, as in (66a), so Deo could have included the continuous, as I have
in Figure 9.2. In fact, as (66b) shows, the innovative progressive is already
being used with statives as well.
(66)	a.	Mẽ	 is	 ko	 pasand	 kerti	 hũ.	Urdu/Hindi
I	 this	OM	pleasing	do	 AUX
‘I like this.’
b.	Ham	 ap	 ka	 show	 ko	 bhot	 pasand  kar raha  ha
we	 your	 POSS	show	 OM	 very	 pleasing do  remain AUX
‘We are really liking your show.’ (Facebook)
Figure 9.2  The Imperfective Cycle
242  Changes in the Outer Aspect
Finally, we come to the question of the extensions of the -ing to verbs such
as love and like, discussed in chapter 6. If the inner aspect is changing from
stative to durative, we expect the adverb deliberately to be possible because
the Experiencer will an Agent. Checking be deliberately V-ing in the COCA,
there is no evidence of this.
There are imperatives with these verbs, implying an Agent rather than an
Experiencer, as in (67ab), but that’s only with certain verbs, as (67c) shows.
(67)	a.	Fear the Fork! (slogan)
b.	Love your neighbor!
c.	*Know French!
This is not new, as the CLMET has numerous examples of (67ab) and some
of (67c) and, as mentioned in chapter 2, this test may not be a good test of
stativity.
Since the change to -ing is affecting a large set of verbs, e.g. (68) as pointed
out by Adrienne Lehrer, it is unlikely that they are all changing their inner
aspect. The tendencies of a progressive to expand its territory adds to this.
I will therefore argue that -ing is generalizing to continuous aspect, but not
(yet) to habitual (as in Hindi/Urdu).
(68)	 a.	How is it tasting? (waiter)
b.	pizza is tasting an awful lot like something other (COCA news 1992)
c.	 . . . how his throat is feeling today (COCA spoken 2014)
d.	This is sounding bad (COCA spoken 2015)
Even verbs like know in (5) occur—be it infrequently—with the -ing.
In chapter 5, the verb feel is shown to be stative first and then durative
and then copula. The change from stative to durative is of course unexpected
and one might think coercive aspect is present. Wycliff’s Bible is one of the
texts where durative feel occurs, according to chapter 5. Looking at the
MED’s entry for the durative felen with the meaning of ‘investigate, explore,
or inquire into (something)’, we find some earlier examples, as shown in
(69). None of these, however, show special aspectual characteristics.
(69)	a.	Mardocheus prudentli gan feele The secre malis of ther compassyng.
‘M. prudently began to explore the secret malice of their compas-
sion.’ (MED, 1439 Lydgate FP (Bod 263) 3.4810)
b.	Wherfore send for hym..and fele what he menyth.
‘Therefore send for him and figure out what he means.’
(MED 1465 Paston 4.175)
Changes in the Outer Aspect 243
c.	 and comyn wyth theym to fele their opynyons.
‘and come with them to investigate their opinions.’
(MED, 1474, Let. Christ Ch. in Camd. n.s. 19, 270)
In conclusion to section 4, I have shown that -ing becomes obligatory as
progressive in the 19th century. Mossé (1938, II, 2ff.), based on Streitberg
(1891), attributes the popularity of the progressive to the demise of the
(perfective) aspectual system occurring from the 13th century on. Look-
ing at (61), that connection may be correct in that, for instance, Arabic
and Russian mark the perfective but not the progressive. However, the his-
tory of English shows quite a lag between obligatory perfective marking
(no longer strict in Old English) and obligatory progressive marking (in
the 19th century) and may be independent of each other. The Imperfective
Cycle provides a possible scenario for what’s happening to verbs like love
and like, chronicled in chapter 6. Rather than changing the inner aspect of
these verbs, the -ing is expanding its scope.
5  Reflexives and Pronouns as Aspect
In this section, I examine one additional change relevant to aspect, namely
the Old and Middle English use of an expletive pronoun to express perfec-
tive or telic aspect. I first mention a similar use in Spanish and then show
that Old English and Middle English have this use as well for motion
verbs.
In Spanish, as argued by Sanz (1996), Bonneau, Bruhn-Garavito and Lib-
ert (1994), and others, there is a perfective/telic clitic se as in (70).
(70)	 Pedro	 se	 comió	 tres	 manzanas
Pedro	REFL	ate	 three	apples
‘Pedro ate three apples (up)’ (Sanz’s sentence)
The reflexive in (70) gives the construction a perfective and bounded
reading.
Similarly, Old English has datives of motion, as shown in (71) and (72),
and these show resultative/telic meanings. They are like Spanish se but can
also be first person, as (72) shows, and second person. There are also non-
motion verbs, as in (73), from (37).
(71)	 Hi	 þa	 þæt	 lond	 forleton 7	 him	 hamweard	 ferdon.
They	 then	 that	 land	 left	 and	 REFL	homewards	 went
‘The men then left the land and took themselves home.’ (Orosius,
Bately 29.12)
244  Changes in the Outer Aspect
(72)	 7	 we	 comon	us	 him	 to	 geeadmedenne
and	we	came	 REFL	him	to	worship
‘And we’ve come to worship him.’ (Matthew, Corpus ms 2.2)
(73)	 se	 cyng	 genam	 Mahalde	 him	 to	 wife
the	king	 took	 Maud	 REFL	as	wife
‘The king took Maud as wife.’ (Peterborough Chronicle, year 1100)
The use persists in Middle English, as (74) to (76) provide evidence for, but
dies out in early Modern English.
(74)	 Forð	 him	 gon	 ride.	 Arður	 þe	 riche
away	him	began	ride	 Arthur	the	great
‘Arthur the great began to ride away.’ (Layamon, Caligula 9939)
(75)	 And	 with	 glad	 herte	 he	 wente	 hym	 hoom	 ful	 soone
and	 with	glad	heart	he	went	 REFL	home	 very	soon
‘And with a happy heart he went home immediately’
(Chaucer, Knight’s Tale 55.2270)
(76)	 And	 to	 his	 bed	 he	 wente	 hym	 hastily
and	 to	his	bed	he	went	 REFL	hastily
‘and he went hastily to bed’ (Chaucer, Merchant’s Tale 160.1779)
As we’ve seen in section 2, perfective prefixes are being lost and, in some
cases, particles add a telic meaning. As in Spanish, pronouns can add this
meaning of perfectivity or telicity, as in (71) to (76), as well, and do so for
a period in Old and Middle English. This is never a frequent construction
(fewer than ten occurrences in Chaucer) but is indicative of overt telicity.
Old English also has an ethical dative, another kind of expletive dative,
as Visser (1963: 282) chronicles for the verbs listed in Table 9.5 with an
example in (77).
Table 9.5  Verbs with ethical datives in Old English
acan ‘ache’, adimmian ‘dim, darken’, afeallan ‘fall’, amolsnian ‘corrupt’, aþeostrian
‘darken’, feallan ‘fall’, floterian ‘flutter’, forberstan ‘burst’, growan ‘grow’, irnan
‘run’, mistian ‘mist’, sittan ‘sit’, slapan ‘sleep’, toberstan ‘burst’, utbertsan ‘burst’,
utwendan ‘turn’, and windan ‘wind’.
Changes in the Outer Aspect 245
(77)	 Him	 amolsniað	 and	 adimmiað	 þa	 eagan,
him	 grew.bad	 and	dimmed	 the	eyes
þe	 ær	 wæron	beorhte	and	 gleawe	on	 gesihðe.
REL	earlier	were	 bright	 and	keen	 in	 face
‘His eyes darkened and dimmed, which had been bright and keen in
his face.’ (Napier’s Wulfstan 147.29)
This dative expresses inalienable possession, as it still does in Modern Ger-
man, and involves ingressive aspect.
This short section has discussed the role of the expletive, optional pro-
noun that helps to mark telicity. Like the resultative particle, these never
become grammaticalized as perfectives, though.
6 Conclusion
Two major aspectual changes have taken place throughout the history of
English. On the one hand, the perfective that is marked on the verb in Old
English is lost and replaced by optional particles and auxiliaries. The lat-
ter have undergone some of the changes outlined in the Perfective Cycle of
(22) and (29). The simple past tense is still possible, especially in American
English, to mark a perfective. Definiteness marking on DP objects helps
indicate the boundedness of the action, an innovation in Middle English.
On the other hand, a gradual increase in the marking of progressive aspect
(through -ing) occurs, which, by the 19th century, is obligatory on dura-
tive present tense verbs. It may currently be extending to stative verbs and
thereby starting to mark the continuous, not surprising given the Imperfec-
tive Cycle of (61).
Table 9.6 summarizes the two main changes. In brackets, I have also
shown the use of pronouns, mentioned in section 5, and the possible exten-
sion of -ing to states.
Table 9.6  Changes in grammatical aspect in English
Old English Middle English Modern English
Perfective ge- telic particles telic particles
simple past,
have/be
simple past,
have
(use of pronouns) (use of pronouns)
Progressive — optional be-ende be-ing
(Continuous optional be-ing)
246  Changes in the Outer Aspect
I have not added a separate section on acquisition because it has been
mentioned, e.g. in chapters 2 and 3, based on the data in Bloom, Lifter and
Jeremy Hafitz (1980), that children are conscious of aspectual verb classes
very early on. Thus, -ed morphemes mark non-durative events, -ing mor-
phemes mark durative non-completive activities, and infinitives mark sta-
tive verbs. This means that what later becomes outer aspect early on just
reinforces inner aspect. This chapter shows that, in the infrequent changes
of inner aspect, outer aspect is not very important.
1 Introduction
This book has taken a view of conceptual structure, where the inner aspect
(durative, telic, stative) determines the theta-roles: telic aspect implies a
Theme and durative an Agent. If inner aspect is all-pervasive, it is important
to check what language change and acquisition can tell us.
When unaccusatives are reanalyzed in the history of English, they are
reanalyzed as causatives, and when unergatives are reanalyzed, they are
reanalyzed as transitives. These are changes where the inner aspect remains
stable. Copulas typically derive from unaccusatives, and here we see some
interesting redistributions of inner aspect, predictable from the level of telic-
ity or durativity. The unaccusatives differentiated in the Sorace Hierarchy
by telicity and stativity retain their aspect as they are reanalyzed as copu-
las. Unergatives are not reanalyzed because they lack a Theme (which is
incorporated).
Experiencer and perception verbs are among the ones that are least stable.
Old English feran ‘to frighten’ has telic aspect and Cause and Experiencer
arguments (with the Theme incorporated). It is reanalyzed as a stative and
there are other examples involving them. Ditransitives are complex with
some telic and others durative.
The outline of this conclusion is as follows. In section 2, I first present
a list of the actual changes in verb meaning that were examined in this
book and then review what we can infer from these. Section 3 reviews
the structural implications for the vP-shell, also adds weather-verbs to the
picture, and points out a typological shift from intransitive to transitive.
Section 4 discusses other typological changes that English has undergone,
and section 5 summarizes the contributions of acquisition studies to our
understanding of inner and outer aspect. Section 6 concludes and points to
limitations and future work.
2  Changes in Inner and Outer Aspect
Table 10.1 provides a list of main verb types that remain the same in terms
of inner aspect and some examples of verbs that have not remained stable.
10	 Structural and Typological
Implications
248  Structural and Typological Implications
Table 10.1  Stability and change in inner aspect
STABILITY IN INNER ASPECT
unaccusative:
to causative, keeping telic aspect but adding a Causer, e.g. drop
to copula, keeping telic aspect, e.g. fall
unergative:
to transitive, keeping durative aspect but adding a Theme, e.g. chide
causative:
to ditransitive, keeping telic aspect, e.g. teach
CHANGE IN INNER ASPECT
copula:
to durative, only in the case of feel
transitive (durative):
to stative copula, only in the case of look
to telic psych-verb, e.g. stun
causative:
to durative, only in the case of feed
psych-verb (telic):
to stative, with loss of telic aspect, e.g. feran ‘fear’
The latter list is one of exceptions, not patterns, except with psych-verbs
where these changes are common.
Table 10.1 shows that unergatives (and transitives), unaccusatives (and
causatives), copulas, and ditransitives are aspectually stable but that expe-
riencer verbs and some copulas are not. As for the aspectually stable verbs,
unaccusatives can either add a Causer to their Theme or become copulas or
auxiliaries by losing their Theme. Unergatives can add a Theme. As for the
unstable verbs, the cases of feel, look, and feed do not represent systematic
patterns, but those involving psych-verbs do.
The changes in outer aspect were shown in Table 9.6. Outer aspect may
emphasize or coerce the inner aspect, as summarized in Table 10.2, but its
role in change is not extensive, as I have shown.
When fear is ambiguous between telic and stative, the older telic use is
reinforced, and when stun is reanalyzed to telic, there is a frequent use of
perfectives that coerce the new meaning that may have come about because
of frequent inanimate subjects to the durative verb. When the verb astonish
is reanalyzed, the progressive and present may reinforce the stative meaning
and the past the telic meaning. The use of the progressive with stative verbs,
like love and like, may mean these verbs are changing to durative aspect or,
as I have argued in chapter 9, the progressive may be becoming imperfec-
tive. With the causatives, the replacements of little v occur.
3  Structural Implications
In this book, I have advocated an approach to argument structure where the
vP represents the syntactic side of a verb’s argument structure. I review the
main structures and changes for the various verb types here and then apply
Structural and Typological Implications 249
Table 10.2  The possible role of coercion
psych-verb
feran:	 frequent use of reflexives, particles, and PPs; pp. 197–204
stun:	 frequent use of perfective; pp. 212–13
		 frequent inanimate subjects; p. 209
astonish:	
progressive/present frequent with subject experiencers; past with
object experiencers; p. 213
love/like, etc.:	 progressive with stative; pp. 216–20; 305
causative
aswindan, etc.:	 frequent use of do and make once -i is lost; pp. 124–6
dark, fast, etc.:	 reinforcement by en- and other affixes; pp. 126–7
it to weather-verbs, not yet discussed. Finally, I return to the issue broached
in chapters 3 and 4 about an increase in transitivity.
I follow the spirit of Hale and Keyser’s (2002) work, where an unaccusa-
tive is represented syntactically as (1a) and a causative through the addition
of a Causer and v as (1b).
Change from unaccusative to causative is therefore expected and, in the
history of English, is indeed common. The reverse change, from causative
to unaccusative, should also be able to occur and may have in Russian and
French (see chapter 4, Table 4.2).
Unergatives are analyzed syntactically in English as roots that can be
nominal or verbal, as in (2).
250  Structural and Typological Implications
If verbal, they can have real Themes, as in (3a); if nominal, they incorpo-
rate as verbs, as in (3b), with the original noun not deleted.
Diachronically, unergatives can be reanalyzed as transitives, which means
that the pattern in (3a) prevails.
Weather-verbs are interesting in that they are durative and that would
predict that they are unergative. In a Hale and Keyser (2002) approach, the
noun rain, snow, etc. could incorporate into the V, as in (4) for (5). It would
have no further arguments.
(5)	 hit rine . . .
‘it rains.’ (Bede, see (2) in chapter 2)
That status of weather-verbs as unergatives fits with the auxiliary selection
in languages such as Dutch, as in (6).
(6)	 Het	 heeft	 geregent.	Dutch
it	 has	rained
‘It rained.’
When the Theme does not incorporate, the result is an unaccusative and
the light verb determines the telic nature, as shown by the changed auxil-
iary and the expletive in (7). A sentence without the expletive, as in (8), is
Structural and Typological Implications 251
pragmatically odd because it would make regen ‘rain’ very specific in the
subject position and ‘rain’ by its nature isn’t.
 (7)	 Er	 is 	 regen	 gevallen.	Dutch
EXPL	is	 rain	 fallen
 (8)	 ?Regen	 is	 gevallen
rain	 is	fallen
‘Rain fell.’
Hale and Keyser argue weather-verbs are always unaccusative, as in (7),
with a telic light verb, but that cannot be true since real Themes are possible,
as in (9) and (10), and because of the auxiliary in (6).
  (9)	 It rained fire.
(10)	 hit	 rineð	 blode	 &	 fyre	 ofer	 ealle	 eorðan
it	 rains	blood	and	fire	 over	all	 earth
‘It will rain blood and fire over the earth.’
(DOE, Apocalypse of Thomas, Förster, 1955 17–27)
And as with all intransitives, a modified Theme, as in (11), would be a
cognate object that does not incorporate; these examples may no longer be
grammatical in Modern English.
(11)	 hit	 þonne	 onginnaþ	 rinan	 blodigan	 regne
it	then	 begins	 rain	 bloody	 rain
‘It then begins/will begin to rain bloody rain.’
(DOE, Letania maiore, Förster, 1913 128–37)
The change from (1a) to (1b) and from (3a) to (3b) is caused by a loss
of morphology, as has been argued in chapters 3 and 4. The result is that
the same verb can be used in either structure. The vP-shell accounts for the
Theme-oriented unaccusatives and causatives and for the Agent-oriented
unergatives and transitives as well as for weather-verbs.
4  Typological Changes and Observations
In this section, I discuss two major typological changes, i.e. one, already
discussed, regarding the question of the synthetic/analytic nature of the
changes, and the second, not yet discussed, involving the grammatical
252  Structural and Typological Implications
position of the subject. I also speculate on why English developed its copula
system in the way it did.
Old English is a language that relies on marking its nouns, adjectives,
and verbs but that has relatively free word order, i.e. it is synthetic. Over
time, English becomes a more analytic language that relies on prepositions,
auxiliaries, and articles, also known as grammatical words, and on word
order rather than on case markings on nouns and agreement on verbs. Fig-
ure 10.1, taken from Szmrecsanyi (2016: 102), provides a visualization of
the changes, based on written texts. Szmrecsanyi’s figure shows that 12th-
century texts are most synthetic but that there is a major change in the 13th
century to less synthetic and then to more analytic in the 14th.
The period after 1500 is a transition period with some changes in gram-
mar and sounds. The major change is perhaps the adoption of tens of thou-
sands of Latin, Greek, and newly invented words. Because of their complex
morphology, these loans increase the syntheticity, as does the increase in
lability that we’ve seen in this book. This back and forth is often seen as a
cycle, as in (12); see von der Gabelentz (1901); Hodge (1970); van Gelderen
(2011a, 2014a: 286–7).
(12)	 . . . > synthetic > analytic > synthetic > . . .
How do changes in verb meaning contribute to this picture? In Old Eng-
lish, weak causative verbs derive from strong intransitives by means of the
addition of the -i affix. When this affix disappears, the verbs appear the
Figure 10.1 
Changes in the analytic/synthetic nature of English (reproduced with
permission)
Structural and Typological Implications 253
same on the surface, i.e. they are labile, and this keeps them synthetically
complex. A similar increase in labile verbs occurs when the transitivizing
and perfectivizing prefixes on intransitives disappear. An increase in analy-
ticity occurs when, during the Middle English period, the verbal prefixes are
lost and are replaced by particles. Light verbs are introduced, which contrib-
ute to the analytic nature. Some of the conflicting tendencies that have been
presented in the book are summarized in Table 10.3.
Apart from the analytic/synthetic nature, there is another major typo-
logical change, namely that the grammatical subject and object positions
become structural. I have not mentioned this change before in the book
because it involves the grammatical subject position connected to a clause.
There is a connection to the theta-role as well.
In English, the theta-roles are certainly not obvious from the word order
or derivational or inflectional morphology. So, partly as a reaction to the
morphological changes outlined above, there are changes in the position of
the arguments. One change that has been discussed (e.g. Rohdenburg 1974;
Hawkins 1986, 2014: 140–3) is that all possible semantic roles start to func-
tion as the grammatical subject, as (13) shows, which I have adapted from
Hawkins (2014: 141) and Levin and Rappaport (2005).
(13)	 a.	A penny buys two beer.	 Instrument
b.	This tent sleeps four.	 Location
c.	 The book sold well.	 Theme
d.	I like the book.	 Experiencer
e.	 The dog bit the man.	 Agent
f.	 They broke the vase.	 Causer
g.	That machine always spews smoke.	 Source
In most related languages, e.g. Dutch, there are more restrictions, and (13ab)
are ungrammatical in the intended meaning. Los and Dreschler (2012) con-
nect this to the presence or absence of Verb-second (V2). They suggest that,
with the loss of V2, local anchoring in the CP (with adverbs in initial position)
was lost and a global anchoring arose. As Levin and Rappaport (2005: 25)
Table 10.3  Synthetic and analytic tendencies
Analytic Synthetic
Light verbs: causative make and do; Causative -i and ge
Telic become and durative do. Labile unaccusative/causative
Particles: with telic verbs Labile unergative/transitive
Loss of prefixes
254  Structural and Typological Implications
point out, although the grammatical subject in (13) agrees with its verb in
number/person, (13abcg) cannot be passivized in English.
I think the change towards (13) is caused by the rigidity of the position
of specifier of TP. Other (Germanic) languages need not fill this position
and are more CP-oriented. English has a special position where expletives,
locatives, and DPs with a variety of theta-roles may appear. Judging by the
introduction of expletives, this change occurs around 1300 (see van Gel-
deren 1997).
Finally, as is known from the typological literature, copulas develop
from demonstratives/pronouns, prepositions/adverbs, or verbs. Certain cre-
ole languages, Semitic languages, Egyptian, and Chinese—to mention but
a few—derive new copulas from demonstratives. However, in order for
the demonstrative to be reanalyzed as copula, the earlier copula has to be
optional and then the interpretable features (person, number, and gender) of
the demonstrative can be reanalyzed as agreement features of a verbal ele-
ment. English and other Germanic languages have solidly used verbs as their
source, mainly unaccusatives, because they never had optional copulas.
The reason English used unaccusatives as sources for copulas is because it
had stages where the distinction between adjectives and adverbs is not made
and this enabled the reanalysis of an unaccusative as copula.
5 Acquisition
Language change originates in children’s reanalyses of what they hear and
their utterances show that inner aspect is an important part of what they
know about verb meaning. This book has argued that children’s first uses of
a verb show its inner aspect as a central pivot. Initially, the outer aspect that
is used is compatible with this inner aspect: -ing on durative and -ed on telic
verbs. Pinker (1989: 348) discusses two experiments reported on in Gropen
(1989) that confirm that children either think of verbs as manner, i.e. dura-
tive, or as change of state, i.e. telic, and that this meaning constrains their
argument structure. The data on the early use of one pattern with ditransi-
tives confirms this.
This book shows that the earliest verbs are unaccusative, unergative,
causative, transitive, copula, and subject experiencer verbs; object experi-
encer verbs and ditransitives occur later. Non-adult constructions appear
due to the overgeneralization of causatives, an omission of copulas in aspec-
tually more complex sentences, a late use of telic copulas, and a late use of
object experiencer verbs.
Children have an early sense of causation and animacy. In addition to
the cases I mention in the Preface and Chapter 1, Becker (2014) shows that
children use (in)animate as a clue that a verb is a raising verb rather than a
control one. She tested if children categorize a novel predicate as raising or
control based on the animacy of its subject by testing its grammaticality in
typically raising or control environments (e.g. use of expletives).
Structural and Typological Implications 255
6  Conclusion, Limitations, and Future Directions
I started with the question of whether theta-roles change over time. I was
surprised that there was so much stability because I had always thought
meaning changes a lot; e.g. near-reversals in the meanings of silly, nice, and
egregious took place in unpredictable ways. This turned out not to be true
for verbs, where change is mostly systematic.
Another major question I had started out with was how speakers know
that a transitive verb like hit will have an Agent and Theme and a verb like
fear an Experiencer and Theme. The same question arises with copulas,
ditransitives, and intransitive verbs, such as arrive in (14). Does this verb
have a Theme or Agent or both?
(14)	 The bus arrived.
The answer is that humans (and possibly other animate beings) rely on
aspectual distinctions, duration, change, and state, and that these determine
the theta-roles.
Hauser, Chomsky and Fitch (2002) distinguish the broad language fac-
ulty, i.e. the FLB, which presumably also includes conceptual structure,
from the narrow language faculty (FLN), which has merge and recursion.
The reanalyses discussed in this book confirm that changes occurring in the
argument structure of a verb are quite different from those occurring in the
FLN. Here, as a derivation is formed, the language learner may decide to
merge a full phrase as a head because of economy of merge (see e.g. van
Gelderen 2011a); such reanalyses do not occur in argument structure as
arguments are added and left out in systematic ways.
The limitations of this book are many. I have just examined the theta-
roles and inner aspect of a limited set of verbs, e.g. only 81 intransitives.
There must be intransitives that change aspect, e.g. durative to telic or vice
versa, and the circumstances around these would be interesting to examine.
Footnote 4 mentions the case of dugan, which starts out clearly unaccusa-
tive but which is now telic; the other verb like that is swimman, which could
either mean ‘swim’, as in the examples I have given, or ‘float’, which its
Indo-European root *swem also means. Apart from aspect and theta-roles,
I have not discussed other meaning changes. For example, when verbs like
see or feel change to be complemented by a CP in addition to a DP, the
meaning becomes more abstract. I have also ignored the role of passives in
the reversal of the meanings in chapter 6: if a verb is frequent in the passive,
does that mean a reanalysis as subject experiencer is more likely? These are
all limitations but also areas for future work.
Another future question concerns the role of external change in pushing
certain verbs to extinction or to prominence. Trips and Stein (e.g. 2015) are
investigating French influence on argument structure. Most of the system-
atic changes described in the book are due to internal change (e.g. the loss
256  Structural and Typological Implications
of a causative affix and the frequent use of intransitives), but what could
be responsible for the renewal of, for instance, so many of the intransitive
verbs? Could aspectual properties of the verbs in the source languages play
a role?
Seeing inner aspect as anchored in the cognitive, pre-linguistic base makes
it possible to ask new questions. Another future direction therefore involves
additional examination of the relationship between inner aspect and outer
aspect in first language acquisition. When a child starts using both a DP PP
and DP PP pattern for ditransitives, are there changes in aspect? Are Expe-
riencers often added to copulas, and if so, to which of the three aspectual
types of copulas? In this connection, the aspectual contributions of light
verbs (and changes in this) need further attention.
Abraham, Werner 1990. A note on the aspect-syntax interface. In Joan Mascaró en
Marina Nespor (eds.), Grammar in Progress, 1–12. Dordrecht: Foris.
Abraham, Werner 1997a. Kausativierung und Dekausativierung: Zu Fragen der
verbparadigmatischen Markierung in der Germania. In Thomas Birkmann, Heinz
Klingenberg, Damaris Nübling und Elke Ronneberger-Sibold (eds.), Vergleichende
Germanische Philologie und Skandinavistik: Festschrift für Otmar Werner, 13–28.
Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Abraham, Werner 1997b. The interdependence of case, aspect, and referentiality in
the history of German: The case of the genitive. In Ans van Kemenade and Nigel
Vincent (eds.), Parameters of Morphosyntactic Change, 29–61. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
Abraham, Werner 1998. The aspectual source of the epistemic-root distinction of
modal verbs in German. In Winfried Boeder, Christoph Schroeder, Karl Heinz
Wagner and Wolfgang Wildgen (eds.), Sprache in Raum und Zeit: In Memoriam
Johannes Bechert. Band 2: Beiträge zur empirischen Sprachwissenschaft, 231–
249. Tübingen: G. Narr.
Abraham, Werner and C. Jac Conradie 2001. Präteritumschwund und Diskurs-
grammatik. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Adger, David 2003. Core Syntax. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Alexiadou, Artemis and Gianina Iordachioaia 2014. The psych causative alterna-
tion. Lingua 148: 53–79.
Allen, Cynthia 1995. Case Marking and Reanalysis. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Allen, Cynthia 2005. Changes in case marking in NP. In Mengistu Amberber and
Helen de Hoop (eds.), Competition and Variation in Natural Languages, 223–
250. Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Allen, Cynthia 2006. Case syncretism and word order change. In Ans Van Keme-
nade and Los Bettelou (eds.), The Handbook of the History of English, 201–223.
Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell.
Andersen, Henning 1973. Abductive and deductive change. Language 49.4:
765–793.
Arad, Maya 1998. Psych-notes. UCL Working Papers in Linguistics 10: 1–22.
Aryanpur, Abbas and Manoochehr Aryanpur 1998. The English Persian Collegiate
Dictionary. Tehran: Amir-Kabir Publications.
Baker, Mark 1988. Incorporation. Chicago: Chicago University Press.
References
258  References
Baker, Mark 1996. Thematic roles and syntactic structure. www.rci.rutgers.edu/~
mabaker/utah-hdbk.pdf
Baker, Mark 2003. Lexical Categories. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Bammesberger, Alfred 1965. Deverbative jan-Verba des Altenglischen. München:
Mikrokopie.
Basilico, David 2008. Particle verbs and benefactive double objects in English: High
and low attachments. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 26.3: 731–773.
Bately, Janet 1980. The Old English Orosius. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Bauer, Laurie, Salvador Valera and Ana Díaz-Negrillo 2010. Affixation vs. con-
version: The Resolution of conflicting patterns. In Franz Rainer, Wolfgang U.
Dressler, Dieter Kastovsky and Hans Christian Luschützky (eds.), Variation and
Change in Morphology, 15–32. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Beavers, John 2011. An aspectual analysis of ditransitive verbs of caused possession
in English. Journal of Semantics 28: 1–54.
Becker, Misha 2000. The Development of the Copula in Child English: The Light-
ness of Be. UCLA PhD.
Becker, Misha 2014. The Acquisition of Syntactic Structure: Animacy and Thematic
Alignment. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Belletti, Adriana and Luigi Rizzi 1988. Psych-verbs and theta-theory. Natural Lan-
guage and Linguistic Theory 6.3: 291–352.
Benveniste, Emile 1960. The linguistic functions of to be and to have. In Problems
in General Linguistics, translated by M.E. Meek, 163–179. Coral Gables, FL:
University of Miami Press.
Bickel, Balthasar, Alena Witzlack-Makarevich, Kamal Choudhary, Matthias
Schlesewsky and Ina Bornkessel-Schlesewsky 2015. The neurophysiology of lan-
guage processing shapes the evolution of grammar: Evidence from case marking.
PLos One. http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0132819
Bickerton, Derek 1990. Language and Species. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Biese, Yrjö 1952. Notes on the use of the ingressive auxiliary in the works of William
Shakespeare. Neuphilologische Mitteilungen 53: 9–18.
Bigelow, A.E. 1987. Early words of blind children. Journal of Child Language 14:
47–56.
Bloom, Lois 1970. Language Development. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Bloom, Lois, Karin Lifter and Jeremy Hafitz 1980. Semantics of verbs and the devel-
opment of verb inflection in child language. Language 56: 386–412.
BNC, British National Corpus. [100 million words of British English, 10% spoken].
Boas, Franz 1911. Kwakiutl. In Franz Boas (ed.), Handbook of American Indian
Languages 1: 423–558. Washington, DC: Government Printing Office.
Bolze, Christine 2013. The verb to be in the West Saxon Gospels and the Lindisfarne
Gospels. In Gabriele Diewald, Leena Kahlas-Tarkka and Ilse Wischer (eds.), Com-
parative Studies in Early Germanic Languages: With a Focus on Verbal Catego-
ries, 217–234. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Bonneau, José, Joyce Bruhn-Garavito and Alan Libert 1994. Feature checking and
Spanish SE. In WECOL 24 Proceedings, 1–15. Fresno: California State University
at Fresno.
Borer, Hagit 2005. Structuring Sense: In Name Only. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Bossong, Georg 1998. Le marquage de l’expérient dans les langues d’Europe. In Jack
Feuillet (ed.), Actance et Valence dans les Langues de l’Europe, 259–294. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
References 259
Bosworth, Joseph and Northcote Toller. 1898. An Anglo-Saxon Dictionary. Lon-
don: Oxford University Press.
Bouchard, Denis 1995. The Semantics of Syntax. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press.
Bouso, Tamara 2017. Muttering contempt and smiling appreciation: Disentangling
the history of the reaction object construction in English. English Studies 98/2:
194–215.
Bowerman, Melissa 1974. Learning the structure of causative verbs. Papers and
Reports on Child Language Developments 8. Stanford University.
Bowerman, Melissa 1982. Evaluating competing linguistic models with language
acquisition data. Quaderni di Semantica 3: 5–66.
Bowers, John 1993. The syntax of predication. Linguistic Inquiry 24: 591–656.
Bowers, John 2010. Arguments as Relations. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Brinton, Laurel. 1988. The Development of English Aspectual Systems. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Broman-Olsen, Mari and Amy Weinberg 1999. Innateness and the acquisition of
grammatical aspect via lexical aspect. In Annabel Greenhill, Heather Littlefield,
and Cheryl Tano (eds.), Proceedings of the 23rd Annual Boston University Con-
ference on Language Development, 529–540. Somerville: Cascadilla.
Brown, Roger 1973. A First Language: The Early Stages. Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press.
Broz, Vlatko 2011. Diachronic analysis of aspectual pre-verbs and post-verbal par-
ticles in English. Zagreb and Leuven joint Ph.D dissertation.
Bruening, Benjamin 2010. Ditransitive asymmetries and a theory of idiom forma-
tion. Linguistic Inquiry 41: 519–562.
Buck, Carl D. 1949. A Dictionary of Selected Synonyms in the Principal Indo-Euro-
pean Languages. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Bungenstab, Edith 1933. Der Genitiv beim Verbum und sein Ersatz im Laufe der
englischen Sprachgeschichte. Breslau: Eschenhagen.
Burzio, Luigi 1986. Italian Syntax. Dordrecht: Reidel Publishing Company.
Bybee, Joan and Östen Dahl 1989. The creation of tense and aspect systems in the
languages of the world. Studies in Language 13: 51–103.
Bybee, Joan, Revere Perkins and William Pagliuca 1994. The Evolution of Gram-
mar: Tense, Aspect, and Modality in the Languages of the World. Chicago: Chi-
cago University Press.
Campbell, Alistair 1959. Old English Grammar. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Carey, Kathleen 1994. The grammaticalization of the perfect in old English: An
account based on pragmatics and metaphor. In William Pagliuca (ed.), Perspec-
tives on Grammaticalization, 103–117. Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishing
Company.
Carey, Kathleen 1995. Subjectification and the English perfect. In Dieter Stein and
Susan Wright (eds.), Subjectivity and Subjectivization, 83–102. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
Cassidy, Frederic 1938. The background in old English of the modern English sub-
stitutes for the dative-object in the group verb + dative-object +accusative-object.
Ph.D University of Michigan dissertation.
Cennamo, Michela. 2010. The (anti)causative alternation in Indo-European. ms.
Cennamo, Michela, Thórhallur Eythórsson and Jóhanna Barðdal. 2010. Towards a
comparative analysis of the anticausative alternation in Indo-European. ms.
260  References
Chapman, Robin S. and Jon F. Miller 1975. Word order in early two and three
word utterances: Does production precede comprehension? Journal of Speech and
Hearing Research 18: 346–354.
Chomsky, Noam 1965. Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 1981. Lectures on Government and Binding. Dordrecht: Foris.
Chomsky, Noam 1995. The Minimalist Program. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam 2004. Beyond explanatory adequacy. In Adriana Belletti (ed.),
Structures and Beyond, 104–131. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Chomsky, Noam 2005. Three factors in language design. Linguistic Inquiry 36.1:
1–22.
Chomsky, Noam 2007. Approaching UG from below. In Uli Sauerland et al. (eds.),
Interfaces + Recursion = Language, 1–29. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Chomsky, Noam 2008. On phases. In Robert Freidin, Carlos Otero and Maria Luisa
Zubizarreta (eds.), Foundational Issues in Linguistic Theory, 133–166. Cam-
bridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam 2013. Problems of projection. Lingua 130: 33–49.
Chomsky, Noam 2015. Problems of projection: Extensions. In Elisa Di Domenico
et al. (eds.), Structures, Strategies, and Beyond, 3–16. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Clancy, Steven 2009. The Chain of Being and Having in Slavic. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Clark Hall, J.R. 1916. A Concise Anglo-Saxon Dictionary. Second Edition. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
CLMET. The corpus of late modern English texts, a 34 million word corpus from
between 1710 and 1920. https://lirias.kuleuven.be/handle/123456789/517304
COCA. The corpus of contemporary American English, a 520 million word corpus
from between 1990–2015. www.americancorpus.org/
COHA. The corpus of historical American English, a 400 million word corpus from
between 1800–2009. www.americancorpus.org/
Colleman, Timothy and Bernard DeClerck 2011. Constructional semantics on the
move: A diachronic view on the semantics of the English double object construc-
tion. Cognitive Linguistics 22.1: 183–210.
Comrie, Bernard 1976. Aspect. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Comrie, Bernard 2006. Transitivity pairs, markedness, and diachronic stability. Lin-
guistics 44.2: 303–318.
Costa, João and Naama Friedmann 2012. Children acquire unaccusatives and
A-movement very early. In Martin Everaert, Marijana Marelj and Tal Siloni
(eds.), The Theta System: Argument Structure at the Interface, 354–378. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Croft, William 1993. Case marking and the semantics of mental verbs. In James
Pustejovsky (ed.), Semantics and the Lexicon. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Curme, George 1935. Parts of Speech and Accidence. Boston: D. C. Heath and
Company.
Cysouw, Michael 2008. Generalizing scales. In Marc Richards and Andrej Malchu-
kov (eds.), Scales. Linguistische Arbeitsberichte 86: 379–396.
Dahl, Eystein 2009. Some semantic and pragmatic aspects of object alternation
in early Vedic. In Jóhanna Barðdal and Shobhana Chelliah (eds.), The Role of
Semantic, Pragmatic and Discourse Factors in the Development of Case, 23–55.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
References 261
De Cuypere, Ludovic 2015. Multivariate analysis of the old English ACC+DAT dou-
ble object alternation. Corpus Linguistics and Linguistic Theory 11.2: 225–254.
Demuth, Katherine, Jennifer Culbertson and Jennifer Alter 2006. Word-minimality,
epenthesis, and coda licensing in the acquisition of English. Language & Speech
49: 137–174.
Denison, David 1993. English Historical Syntax. London: Longman.
Deo, Ashwini 2015. The semantic and pragmatic underpinnings of grammaticaliza-
tion paths: The progressive to imperfective shift. Semantics and Pragmatics 8.14:
1–52.
Dictionary of Old English (DOE) texts. www.doe.utoronto.ca
Dikken, Marcel den 1995. Particles: On the Syntax of Verb—Particle, Triadic and
Causative Constructions. Oxford and New York: Oxford University Press.
Dikken, Marcel den 2006. Relators and Linkers: The Syntax of Predication, Predi-
cate Inversion, and Copulas. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Dowty, David 1991. Thematic proto-roles and argument selection. Language 67.3:
547–619.
Duncan, Daniel 1731. A New English Grammar. Menston: Scolar Press. [1967
reprint].
Durie, Mark. 1986. The grammaticalization of number as a verbal category. In Vassi-
liki Nikiforidou, Mary VanClay and Mary Niepokuj and Deborah Feder (eds.),
Proceedings of the Twelfth Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society 12:
355–370. Berkeley, CA: Berkeley Linguistics Society Publications.
EEBO, Early English Books Online, a corpus of 400 million words from the 1470s
to 1690s. https://corpus.byu.edu/eebo
Eitelmann, Matthias 2012. Self vs. zero: Determinants of linguistic variation and
their impact on the choice between reflexive strategies. ICEHL talk.
Elenbaas, Marion 2007. The Synchronic and Diachronic Syntax of the English Verb-
Particle Combination. Utrecht: LOT Publications.
Elmer, Willy 1981. Diachronic Grammar: The History of Old and Middle English
Subjectless Constructions. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Elsness, Johan 1997. The Perfect and Preterite in Contemporary and Earlier Eng-
lish. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Enke, Dankmar, Roland Mühlenbernd and Igor Yanovich 2016. The emergence
of the progressive to imperfective diachronic cycle in reinforcement learning
agents. ms.
Faarlund, Jan Terje 2012. A Grammar of Chiapas Zoque. Oxford: Oxford Univer-
sity Press.
Faltz, Leonard 1985. Reflexivization: A Study in Universal Syntax. New York:
Garland.
Faltz, Leonard 2008. A Reflexive Cycle? Talk to ASU Linguistic Cycle Workshop.
Fanego, Teresa 2012. Motions events in English. Folia Linguistica Historica 33:
29–85.
Fenning, Daniel 1771. A New Grammar of the English Language. Menston: Scolar
Press.
Fillmore, Charles 1970. The grammar of hitting and breaking. In Roderick A. Jacobs
and Peter S. Rosenbaum (eds.), Readings in English Transformational Grammar,
120–133. Waltham, MA: Ginn.
Fischer, Olga and Frederike van der Leek 1983. The demise of the old English imper-
sonal construction. Journal of Linguistics 19: 337–368.
262  References
Fischer, Susan 1971. The acquisition of verb-particle and dative constructions. MIT
dissertation.
Fisher, Ann 1750. A New Grammar. Menston: Scolar Press.
Folli, Raffaella and Heidi Harley 2005. Consuming results: Flavors of little-v. In
Paula Kempchimsky and Roumyana Slabakova (eds.), Aspectual Enquiries, 1–25.
Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Folli, Raffaella and Heidi Harley 2008. Teleology and animacy in external argu-
ments. Lingua 118.2: 190–202.
Fraser, Thomas 1985. Did old English have a middle voice? In Jacek Fisiak and
Anders Ahlquist (eds.), Papers From the 6th International Conference of Histori-
cal Linguistics, 129–138. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Freeze, Ray 1992. Existentials and other locatives. Language 68: 553–595.
Fryd, Marc 1998. Present perfect et datation. Cahiers Chronos 2: 29–50.
Gaaf, Willem van der 1904. The Transition From the Impersonal to the Personal
Construction in Middle English. Heidelberg: Winter.
Gabelentz, Georg von der 1901. Die Sprachwissenschaft. Ihre Aufgaben, Methoden
und bisherigen Ergebnisse. Leipzig: C. H. Tauchnitz.
Garcia Garcia, Luisa 2012. Morphological causatives in old English. TrPhS 110:
122–148.
Gelderen, Elly van 1997. Verbal Agreement and the Grammar Behind Its ‘Break-
down’. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Gelderen, Elly van 2000. A History of English Reflexive Pronouns. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Gelderen, Elly van 2004. Grammaticalization as Economy. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Gelderen, Elly van 2011a. The Linguistic Cycle. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Gelderen, Elly van 2011b. Valency changes in the history of English. Journal of His-
torical Linguistics 1.1: 106–143.
Gelderen, Elly van 2013. Clause Structure. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Gelderen, Elly van 2014a. A History of English. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Gelderen, Elly van 2014b. Changes in psych-verbs: A reanalysis of little v. Journal of
Catalan Linguistics 13: 99–122.
Gelderen, Elly van 2015. The copula cycle. Lingue e Linguaggio XIV.2: 287–301.
Givón, Thomas 2011. Ute Reference Grammar. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Gleitman, Lila 1990. The structural sources of verb meaning. Language Acquisition
1: 3–55.
Golinkoff, Roberta, Carol Harding, Vicki Carlson-Luden and Miriam Sexton 1984.
The infant’s perception of causal events: The distinction between animate and
inanimate objects. In Lewis P. Lipsitt (ed.), Advances in Infancy Research 3: 145–
151. Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Goossens, L. 1994. The English progressive tenses and the layered representation
of functional grammar. In Co Vet and Carl Vetters (eds.), Tense and Aspect in
Discourse, 161–177. Berlin: Mouton.
Gordon, Lynn 1986. The development of Evidentials in Maricopa. In Wally Chafe
and Johanna Nichols (eds.), Evidentiality, 75–88. New York: Academic Press.
Gray, Kurt, Adam Waytz and Liane Young 2012. The moral dyad: A fundamental
template unifying moral judgment. Psychological Inquiry 23.2: 101–121.
Greenwood, James 1711. An Essay Towards a Practical English Grammar. Men-
ston: Scolar Press.
References 263
Griffin, Donald 1981. The Question of Animal Awareness. New York: The Rock-
efeller University Press.
Grimshaw, Jane 1990. Argument Structure. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Gronemeyer, Claire 1999. On deriving complex polysemy: The grammaticalization
of get. English Language and Linguistics 3: 1–39.
Gropen, J. 1989. Learning locative verbs. MIT Ph.D dissertation.
Gruber, Jeffrey 1965. Studies in lexical relations. MIT Ph.D dissertation.
Hale, Ken 1991. Misumalpan verb sequencing constructions. In Claire Lefebvre
(ed.), Serial Verbs, 1–35. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hale, Ken, Laverne Jeanne and Paul Pranka 1991. On suppletion, selection, and
agreement. In Carol Georgopoulos & Roberta Ishihara (eds.), Interdisciplinary
Approaches to Language, 255–270. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Hale, Ken and Samuel Jay Keyser 1993. On argument structure and the lexical
expression of grammatical relations. In Kenneth Hale and Samuel Jay Keyser
(eds.), The View From Building 20. Essays in Honor of Sylvain Bromberger,
53–110. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Hale, Ken and Samuel Jay Keyser 2002. Prolegomenon to a Theory of Argument
Structure. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Hamel, A.G. van 1931. Gotisch Handboek. Haarlem: Tjeenk-Willink.
Harley, Heidi 2002. Possession and the double object construction. Linguistic Vari-
ation Yearbook 2: 29–68.
Harley, Heidi 2013. External arguments and the mirror principle: On the distinct-
ness of voice and v. Lingua 125: 34–57.
Harley, Heidi 2014. Hiaki verbal number suppletion really is suppletion. ms.
Harley, Heidi and Hyun Kyoung Jung 2015. In support of the PHAVE analysis of the
double object construction. Linguistic Inquiry 46.4: 703–730.
Harley, Heidi and Shigeru Miyagawa 2016. Ditransitives. ms.
Harley, Heidi and Megan Stone 2013. The ‘No agent idioms’ hypothesis. In Rafaella
Folli, et al. (eds.), Syntax and Its Limits, 251–273. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Hartshorne, Joshua, Amanda Pogue and Jesse Snedeker 2015. Love is hard to under-
stand: the relationship between transitivity and caused events in the acquisition of
emotion verbs. Journal of Child Language 42: 467–504.
Haspelmath, Martin 1993. More on the typology of the inchoative/causative verb
alternations. In Bernard Comrie and Maria Polinsky (eds.), Causatives and Tran-
sitivity, 87–120. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Haspelmath, Martin 2001. Non-canonical marking of core arguments in European
languages. In Aikhenvald et al. (eds.), Non-Canonical Marking of Subjects and
Objects, 53–83. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hauser, Marc, Noam Chomsky and Tecumseh Fitch 2002. The faculty of language:
What is it, who has it, and how did it evolve? Science 298: 1569–179.
Hauser, Marc, Fiery Cushman, Liane Young, R. Kang-Zing Jin and John Mikhail
2007. A dissociation between moral judgements and justifications. Mind & Lan-
guage 22.1: 1–21.
Hauser, Marc and Bailey Spaulding 2006. Wild rhesus monkeys generate causal
inferences about possible and impossible conditions. Proceedings National Acad-
emy Sciences 103: 7181–7185.
Hawkins, John 1986. A Comparative Typology of English and German: Unifying
the Contrasts. London: Croom Helm.
264  References
Hawkins, John 2014. Cross-Linguistic Variation and Efficiency. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Heine, Bernd 1993. Auxiliaries: Cognitive Forces and Grammaticalization. New
York: Oxford University Press.
Hermodsson, Lars. 1952. Reflexive und Intransitive Verba im älteren Westgermanis-
chen. Uppsala: Almqvist & Wiksell.
Higgins, Roger 1979. The Pseudo-Cleft Construction in English. New York:
Garland.
Hill, Eugen. 2010. A case study in grammaticalized inflectional morphology. Dia-
chronica 27.3: 411–458.
Hiltunen, Risto 1983. The Decline of the Prefixes and the Beginnings of the English
Phrasal Verb: The Evidence From Some Old and Middle English Texts. Turku:
University of Turku.
Hodge, Carleton 1970. The linguistic cycle. Linguistic Sciences 13: 1–7.
Hoekstra, Teun 2004. Arguments and Structure. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Hogg, Richard and R.D. Fulk 2011. A Grammar of Old English. Oxford:
Wiley-Blackwell.
Hoop, Helen de and Irene Krämer 2005/6. Children’s optimal interpretations of
indefinite subjects and objects. Language Acquisition 13: 103–123.
Hopper, Paul and Sandra Thompson. 1980. Transitivity in grammar and discourse.
Language 56.2: 251–299.
Hornstein, Norbert 1999. Movement and control. Linguistic Inquiry 30.1: 69–96.
Hulse, Stewart, Harry Fowler and Werner Honig 1978. Cognitive Processes in Ani-
mal Behavior. Hillsdale, N.J.: Erlbaum Associates.
Hundt, Marianne 2004. Animacy, agentivity and the spread of the progressive in
Modern English. ELL 8.1: 47–69.
Husband, Matthew 2012. On the Compositional Nature of States. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Israel, Michael 1996. The way constructions grow. In Adele Goldberg (ed.), Concep-
tual Structure, Discourse, and Language. Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications.
Jackendoff, Ray 1972. Semantic Interpretation in Generative Grammar. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Jackendoff, Ray 1983. Semantics and Cognition. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Jackendoff, Ray 1997. The Architecture of the Language Faculty. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Jackendoff, Ray 2002. Foundations of Language. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Jamison, Stephanie 1976. Functional ambiguity and syntactic change: The Sanskrit
accusative. In Papers From the Parasession on Diachronic Syntax, 12th Regional
Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society, 126–135. Chicago: Chicago Linguistic
Society.
Jeanne, Laverne 1978. Aspects of hopi grammar. MIT dissertation.
Jespersen, Otto 1909–1949. Modern English Grammar. London: George Allen and
Unwin.
Jordens, Peter 2012. Language Acquisition and the Functional Category System.
Berlin: de Gruyter.
Jost, K. H. 1909. Bēon und wesan, eine syntaktische untersuchung. Heidelberg:
Universitätsverlag.
Katz, Jerrold and Jerry Fodor 1963. The structure of a semantic theory. Language
39: 170–210.
References 265
Kay, Christian, Jane Roberts, Michael Samuels and Irene Wotherspoon (eds.) 2009.
Historical Thesaurus of the Oxford English Dictionary. Oxford: Oxford Univer-
sity Press.
Kayne, Richard 2008. Antisymmetry and the Lexicon. http://linguistics.as.nyu.edu/
docs/IO/2652/Kayne0208AntisymmetryLexicon.pdf
Kemenade, Ans van 1997. V2 and embedded topicalization in old and middle
­
English. In Ans van Kemenade and Nigel Vincent (eds.), Parameters of Morpho-
syntactic Change, 326–352. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Kilpiö, Matti 1997. On the forms and functions of the verb be from old to mod-
ern English. In Matti Rissanen, Merja Kytö and Kirsi Heikkonen (eds.), English
in Transition: Corpus-Based Studies in Linguistic Variation and Genre Styles,
87–120. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Kiparsky, Paul 1998. Partitive case and aspect. In Miriam Butt and Wilhelm Geuder
(eds.), The Projection of Arguments, 265–307. Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications.
Klein, Thomas 1998. The coarser senses in old English: A study of the Old English
verbs of tasting, smelling, touching, and perceiving. University of Toronto Ph.D
dissertation.
Klima, Edward 1965. Studies in diachronic transformational syntax. Harvard Ph.D
dissertation.
Knobe, Joshua 2003. Intentional action and side effects in ordinary language. Analy-
sis, 63: 190–193.
Knobe, Joshua 2010. Person as scientist, person as moralist. Behavioral and Brain
Sciences 33: 315–365.
König, Ekkehard and Peter Siemund 2000. The development of complex reflexives
and intensifiers in English. Diachronica XVII: 39–84.
König, Ekkehard and Letizia Vezzosi 2004. The role of predicate meaning in the
development of reflexivity. In Walter Bisang, Nikolaus Himmelmann and Björn
Wiemer (eds.), What Makes Grammaticalization? 213–244. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Koopman, Hilda and Dominique Sportiche 1991. The position of subjects. Lingua
85.2/3: 211–258.
Koopman, Willem 1990. The double object construction in Old English. In Sylvia
M. Adamson, Vivien A. Law, Nigel Vincent and Susan Wright (eds.), Papers From
the 5th International Conference on English Historical Linguistics, 225–244.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Koopman, Willem 1993. Change in double object constructions in the history of
English. ICHL 11, Los Angeles.
Kortmann, Bernd 2004. Do as a tense and aspect marker in varieties of English. In
Bernd Kortmann (ed.), Dialectology Meets Typology: Dialect Grammar From a
Cross-Linguistic Perspective, 245–275. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Koster, Jan 1986. Domains and Dynasties. Dordrecht: Foris.
Kotin, Michail 1998. Die Herausbildung der grammatischen Kategorie des genus
verbi im Deutschen. Hamburg: Hemut Buske Verlag.
Krahe, Hans and Wolfgang Meid 1967. Germanische Sprachwissenschaft III, Wort-
bildungslehre. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
Kranich, Svenja 2010. The Progressive in Modern English. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Kratzer, Angelica 1996. Severing the external argument from the verb. In Johan
Rooryck and Laurie Zaring (eds.). Phrase Structure and the Lexicon, 109–137.
Dordrecht: Kluwer.
266  References
Kuczaj, Stan 1976. -Ing, -s, -ed: A Study of the Acquisition of Certain Verb Inflec-
tions. University of Minnesota dissertation.
Kuczaj, Stan 1977. The acquisition of regular and irregular past tense forms. Journal
of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior 16: 589–600.
Kulikov, Leonid 2001. The Vedic -ya presents. Leiden Ph.D dissertation. [published
in revised form in 2012 by Rodopi, Amsterdam].
Kulikov, Leonid 2009. Valency-changing categories in Indo-Aryan and Indo-Euro-
pean: A diachronic typological portrait of Vedic Sanskrit. In Anju Saxena and Åke
Viberg (eds.), Multilingualism: Proceedings of the 23rd Scandinavian Conference
of Linguistics, 75–92. Uppsala: Uppsala Universitet.
Kytö, Merja 1997. Be/have + past participle: The choice of the auxiliary with intran-
sitives from late middle to modern English. In Matti Rissanen, Merja Kytö and
Kirsi Heikkonen (eds.), English in Transition: Corpus-Based Studies in Linguistic
Variation and Genre Styles, 19–85. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Lahiri, Aditi 2000. Hierarchical restructuring in the creation of verbal morphology
in Bengali and Germanic: Evidence from phonology. In Aditi Lahiri (ed.), Analogy,
Levelling, Markedness, 71–123. Berlin: Mouton.
Lakusta, Laura and Susan Carey 2015. Twelve-month-old infants’ encoding of goal
and source paths in agentive and non-agentive motion events. Language Learning
and Development 11.2: 152–175.
Landar, Herbert 1964. Seven Navaho verbs of eating. International Journal of
American Linguistics 30: 94–96.
Landau, Barbara 1982. Language learning in blind children. University of Pennsyl-
vania Ph.D dissertation.
Landau, Barbara and Lila Gleitman 1985. Language and Experience. Cambridge,
MA: Harvard University Press.
Landau Barbara, Linda Smith and Susan Jones 1988. The importance of shape in
early lexical learning. Cognitive Development 3: 299–321.
Lane, Archibald 1700. A key to the Art of Letters. Monston: Scolar Press. [1969
reprint]
Larson, Richard 1988. On the double object construction. Linguistic Inquiry 19:
335–391.
Lass, Roger 1994. Old English. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lavidas, Nikolaos 2013. Null and cognate objects and changes in (in)transitiv-
ity: Evidence from the history of English. Acta Linguistica Hungarica 60.1:
69–106.
Leiss, Elisabeth 2000. Artikel und Aspekt. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
Lenz, Philipp 1886. Der syntactische gebrauch der Partikel ge in den Werken Alfred
des Grossen. Darmstadt: G. Otto.
Leslie, Alan and Stephanie Keeble 1987. Do six-month-old infants perceive causal-
ity? Cognition 25.3: 265–88.
Levin, Beth 1993. English Verbs Classes and Alternations. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
Levin, Beth and Jason Grafmiller 2013. Do you always fear what frightens you?
in Tracy Holloway King and Valeria de Paiva (eds.), From Quirky Case to Rep-
resenting Space: Papers in Honor of Annie Zaenen, 21–32. Stanford, CA: CSLI
On-line Publications (volume pdf).
Levin, Beth and Malka Rappaport Hovav 1986. The formation of adjectival pas-
sives. Linguistic Inquiry 17.4: 623–61.
References 267
Levin, Beth and Malka Rappaport Hovav 1995. Unaccusativity. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Levin, Beth and Malka Rappaport Hovav 2005. Argument Realization. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Levin, Beth and Malka Rappaport Hovav 2014. Manner and result: A View from
clean. In Rob Pensalfini, Myfany Turpin and Diana Guillemin (eds.), Language
Description Informed by Theory, 337–357. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Lightfoot, David 1979. Principles of Diachronic Syntax. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Lindemann, J.W.R. 1965. Old English preverbal ge-: A re-examination of some cur-
rent do. Journal of English and Germanic Philology 64: 65–83.
Lloyd, Albert 1979. Anatomy of the Verb: The Gothic Verb as a Model for a Uni-
fied Theory of Aspect, Actional Types, and Verbal Velocity. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Lohndal, Terje 2014. Phrase Structure and Argument Structure. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Lorz, Anton 1908. Aktionsarten des Verbums im Beowulf. Würzburg: C.J. Becker.
Los, Bettelou 2012. The loss of verb-second and the switch from bounded to
unbounded systems. In Meurman-Solin, Anneli et al. (eds.), Informationa Struc-
ture and Syntactic Change in the History of English, 21–46. Oxford: Oxford Uni-
versity Press.
Los, Bettelou, Corrien Blom, Geert Booij, Marion Elenbaas and Ans van Kemenade
2012. Morphosyntactic Change: A Comparative Study of Particles and Prefixes.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Los, Bettelou and Gea Dreschler 2012. The loss of local anchoring: From adverbial
local anchors to permissive subjects. In Terttu Nevalainen and Elizabeth Traugott
(eds.), The Oxford Handbook of the History of English, 859–871. New York:
Oxford University Press.
Lowth, Robert 1762. A Short Introduction to English Grammar. London: J. Dods-
ley and T. Cadell.
Lyons, John 1977. Semantics II. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Macleod, Morgan 2012. The perfect in old English and old Saxon. Cambridge Uni-
versity Ph.D dissertation.
Malchukov, Andrej 2014. Exploring the domain of ditransitive constructions. ms.
Malchukov, Andrej, Martin Haspelmath and Bernard Comrie 2010. Studies in
Ditransitive Constructions: A Comparative Handbook. Berlin: De Gruyter
Mouton.
Malchukov, Andrej and Anna Siewierska 2011. Impersonal Constructions. Amster-
dam: John Benjamins.
Marantz, Alec 1984. On the Nature of Grammatical Relations. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Marchand, Hans 1960. The Categories and Types of Present-Day English Word-
Formation. Wiesbaden: Olto Harrassowitz.
Markman, Ellen 1994. Constraints on word meaning in early acquisition. Lingua
92: 199–227.
Mazurkewich, Irene 1981. Second language acquisition of the dative alternation and
markedness: The best theory. Université de Montréal dissertation.
Mazurkewich, Irene and Lydia White 1984. The acquisition of the dative alterna-
tion: Unlearning overgeneralizations. Cognition 16: 261–283.
268  References
McCawley, James 1971. Prelexical syntax. In Richard O’Brien (ed.), Report of the
22nd Roundtable Meeting on Linguistics and Language Studies, 19–33. Washing-
ton, DC: Georgetown University Press.
McColl Millar, Robert 2000. System Collapse System Rebirth. New York: Peter
Lang.McFadden, Thomas 2002. The rise of the to-dative in middle English. In
David Lightfoot (ed.), Syntactic Effects of Morphological Change, 107–123.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
McFadden, Thomas 2011. The old English distribution and subsequent loss of
preverbal ge-. DiGS talk. www.academia.edu/2849238/The_Old_English_
distribution_and_subsequent_loss_of_preverbal_ge
McFadden, Thomas and Artemis Alexiadou 2010. Perfects, resultatives, and auxil-
iaries in Earlier English. Linguistic Inquiry 41.3: 357–388.
McMillion, Allan 2006. Labile verbs in English. Stockholm Ph.D dissertation.
MED, Middle English Dictionary. https://quod.lib.umich.edu/m/med
Meltzoff, Andrew 1995. Understanding the intentions of others: Re-enactment
of intended acts by 18-month-old children. Developmental Psychology 31.5:
838–850.
Michaelis, Susanne, Philippe Maurer, Martin Haspelmath and Magnus Huber (eds.)
2013. The Atlas and Survey of Pidgin and Creole Languages, 4 volumes. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Miège, Guy 1688. The English Grammar. Menston: Scolar Press. [1969 reprint].
Mikhail, John 2011. Elements of Moral Cognition: Rawls’ Linguistic Analogy and
the Cognitive Science of Moral and Legal Judgment. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.
Mikkelsen, Line 2005. Copular Clauses: Specification, Predication and Equation.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Miller, Thomas 1890. The Old English Version of Bede. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Mitchell, Bruce 1985. Old English Grammar I and II. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Mithun, Marianne 1988. Lexical categories and the evolution of number marking.
In Mike Hammond and Michael Noonan (eds.), Theoretical Morphology, 211–
234. San Diego: Academic Press.
Miura, Ayumi 2011. Middle English verbs of emotion and impersonal constructions.
Manchester dissertation.
Möhlig-Falke, Ruth 2012. The Early English Impersonal Construction. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Moro, Andrea 2000. Dynamic Antisymmetry. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Morris, Richard 1866. Dan Michel’s Ayenbite of Inwyt. London: Trübner & Co.
Morris, Richard 1874–1893. Cursor Mundi, 7 Parts. London: Trübner & Co.
Mossé, Fernand 1938. Histoire de la forme périphrastique être + participe présent en
germanique. Paris: Klincksieck.
Mustanoja, Tauno 1960. A Middle English Syntax. Helsinki. [2016 John Benjamins
reprint].
Naigles, Leticia 1990. Children use syntax to learn verb meaning. Journal of Child
Language 17: 357–374.
Narogg, Heiko 2009. Synchrony and diachrony in transitivity pairs. Association for
Linguistic Typology talk, Berkeley, July.
References 269
Newman, Stanley 1965. Zuni Grammar. Albuquerque: University of New Mexico
Press.
Nichols, Johanna, David Peterson and Jonathan Barnes 2004. Transitivizing and
detransitivising languages. Linguistic Typology 8.2: 149–211.
Nickel, G. 1966. Die Expanded Form im Altenglischen. Neumünster: Karl
Wachholtz.
Oehrle, Richard 1976. The grammatical status of the English dative alternation.
MIT Ph.D dissertation.
Ogura, Michiko 1989. Verbs With the Reflexive Pronoun and Constructions With
‘Self’ in Old and Early Middle English. Cambridge: D.S. Brewer.
Ogura, Michiko 2002. Verbs of Motion in Medieval England. Cambridge: D.S. Brewer.
Olsen, Mari Broman and Amy Weinberg 1999. Innateness and the acquisition of
grammatical aspect via lexical aspect. BUCLD 23 Proceedings 23: 529–540.
Ottosson, Kjartan 2013. The anti-causative and related categories in the old Ger-
manic languages. In Folke Josephson et al. (eds.), Diachronic and Typological
Perspectives on Verbs, 329–381. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Oxford English Dictionary (OED) 1933. Oxford: Oxford University Press, and
OED online.
Peitsara, Kirsti 1997. The development of reflexive strategies in English. In Matti
Rissanen et al. (eds.), Grammaticalization at Work, 277–370. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Perlmutter, David 1978. Impersonal passives and the unaccusative hypothesis. In
Proceedings From the 4th Regional Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistic Society,
157–189. Berkeley: Berkeley Linguistics Society.
Pesetsky, David 1995. Zero Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Peters, Ann 1987. The role of imitation in the developing syntax of a blind child.
Text 7: 289–311.
Petré, Peter 2013. On the distribution and merger of is and bið in Old and Middle
English. Transactions of the Philological Society 111.3: 301–325.
Petré, Peter 2014. Constructions and Environments: Copular, Passive and Related
Constructions in Old and Middle English. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Philippi, Julia 1997. The rise of the article in the Germanic languages. In Ans van
Kemenade and Nigel Vincent (eds.), Parameters of Morphosyntactic Change,
62–93. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Pinker, Steven 1984. Language Learnability and Language Development. Cam-
bridge: Harvard University Press.
Pinker, Steven 1989 [2013]. Learnability and Cognition. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Plank, Frans and Aditi Lahiri 2009. Microscopic and macroscopic typology: Basic
valence orientation. Association for Linguistic Typology talk, Berkeley, July.
Platts, John 1960. A Dictionary of Urdu, Classical Hindi, and English. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Pollington, Stephen 1993. Wordcraft. Chippenham: Anthony Rowe.
Postal, Paul 2010. Edge-Based Clausal Syntax: A Study of (Mostly) English Object
Structure. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Potashnik, Joseph 2012 Emission verbs. In Martin Everaert, Marijana Marelj and
Tal Siloni (eds.), The Theta System: Argument Structure at the Interface. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
270  References
Poutsma, Hendrik 1914–29. A Grammar of Late Modern English. Groningen:
Noordhoff.
Premack, David and Guy Woodruff 1978. Does the chimpanzee have a theory of
mind? Behavioral and Brain Sciences 1.4: 515–526.
Prokosch, Eduard 1939. A Comparative Germanic Grammar. Baltimore: Linguistic
Society of America.
Pustejovsky, James 1988. The geometry of events. In Carol Tenny (ed.), Studies in
Generative Approaches to Aspect, 19–39. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Pylkkänen, Lisa 2008. Introducing Arguments. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Quirk, Randolph, Sidney Greenbaum, Geoffrey Leech and Jan Svartvik 1985. A
Comprehensive Grammar of the English Language. London: Longman.
Ramchand, Gillian 2008. Verb Meaning and the Lexicon. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Rappaport Hovav, Malka and Beth Levin 1998. Building verb meanings. In Miriam
Butt and Wilhem Geuder (eds.), The Projection of Arguments: Lexical and Com-
positional Factors. Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications.
Rappaport Hovav, Malka and Beth Levin 2008. The English dative alternation.
Journal of Linguistics 44.1: 129–167.
Rappaport Hovav, Malka and Beth Levin 2010. Reflections on manner/result com-
plementarity. In Edit Doron, Malka Rappaport Hovav and Ivy Sichel (eds.), Syn-
tax, Lexical Semantics, and Event Structure, 21–38. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Reinhart, Tanja 2002. The theta system: An overview. Theoretical Linguistics 28.3:
229–290.
Robertson, John and Danny Law 2009. From valency to aspect in the Ch’olan-
Tzeltalan family of Mayan. IJAL 75.3: 293–316.
Roggia, Aaron 2011. Unaccusativity and word order in Mexican Spanish. Pennsyl-
vania: State University dissertation.
Roggia, Aaron 2015. A test of the split intransitivity hierarchy. LASSO talk.
Rohdenburg, Günter 1974. Sekundäre Subjektivierungen im Englischen und
Deutschen: Vergleichende Untersuchungen zur Verb- und Adjektivsyntax. PAKS-
Arbeitsbericht Nr. 8. Bielefeld: Cornelsen-Velhagen & Klasing.
Rohdenburg, Günter 2009. Reflexive structures. In Günter Rohdenburg and Julia
Schlüter (eds.), One Language, Two Grammars? Difference Between American
and British English, 166–181. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Rosen, Carol 1984. The interface between semantic roles and initial grammati-
cal relations. In David Perlmutter and Carol Rosen (eds.), Studies in Relational
Grammar 2: 38–77. Chicago: Chicago University Press.
Rothstein, Susan 1995. Small clauses and copular constructions. Syntax and Seman-
tics 28: 27–48. San Diego: Academic Press.
Ruda, Marta 2016. On the syntax of missing objects. University of Kraków
dissertation.
Rude, Noel 1978. A continuum of meaning in the Copula. Proceedings of the 4th
Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society, 202–210.
Ruwet, Nicolas 1972. Théorie syntaxique et syntaxe du français. Paris: Éditions du
Seuil.
Ryan, John 2012. The Genesis of Argument Structure: Observations of a Child’s
Early Speech Production in Spanish. Saarbrücken: Lambert Academic Publications.
References 271
Rydén, Mats and Sverker Brorström 1987. The Be/Have Variation With Intransi-
tives in English: With Special Reference to the Late Modern Period. Stockholm:
Almqvist & Wiksell.
Sachs, Jacqueline 1983. Talking about the there and then. In Keith E. Nelson (ed.),
Children’s Language 4: 1–28. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Sant Singh, J.S. 1987. Practical Dictionary. J.S. Delhi: Sant Singh & Sons.
Sanz, Montserrat 1996. Telicity, objects and the mapping onto predicate types.
Rochester dissertation.
Sapir, Edward 1922. The Takelma Language. In Franz Boas (ed.), Hand Book of
American Indian Languages II: 1–296. Washington D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.
Scheffer, Johannes 1975. The Progressive in English. Amsterdam: North Holland
Publishing.
Shirai, Yasuhiro 1994. On the overgeneralization of progressive marking on stative
verbs: Bioprogram or input? First Language 14: 67–82.
Skeat, Walter (ed.) 1881–1887. The Gospel According to St. Matthew, St. Mark,
St. Luke and St. John. Cambridge. [Reprint: Darmstadt: Wissenschaftliche
Buchgesellschaft].
Skeat, Walter 1892. Principles of English Etymology. Oxford: Clarendon.
Slobin, Dan 2004. The many ways to search for a frog. In Sven Strömqvist and Ludo
Verhoeven (eds.), Relating Events in Narrative: Vol. 2. Typological and Contex-
tual Perspectives, 219–257. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Slobodchikoff, Con 2010. Alarm calls in birds and mammals. In Michael Breed
and Janice Moore (eds.), Encyclopedia of Animal Behavior, 1: 40–43. Oxford:
Academic Press.
Smitterberg, Erik 2005. The Progressive in 19th Century English. Amsterdam:
Rodopi.
Snyder, William, Nina Hyams and Paola Crisma 1995. Romance auxiliary selection
with reflexive clitics: Evidence for early knowledge of unaccusativity. In Eve Clark
(ed.), Proceedings of the Twenty-Sixth Annual Child Language Research Forum,
127–136. Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications.
Soja, Nancy, Susan Carey and Elizabeth Spelke 1991. Ontological categories guide
young children’s inductions of word meaning: Object terms and substance terms.
Cognition 38: 179–211.
Sorace, Antonella 2000. Gradients in auxiliary selection with intransitive verbs.
Language 76.4: 859–890.
Sportiche, Dominique 1988. A theory of floating quantifiers and its corollaries for
constituent structure. Linguistic Inquiry 19.2: 425–451.
Stevenson, Joseph 1840. Rituale ecclesiæ Dunelmensis. London: Nichols.
Storch, Anne and Gerrit Dimmendaal 2014. One size fits all? In Anne Storch and
Gerrit Dimmendaal (eds.), Number—Constructions and Semantics, 1–32. Amster-
dam: John Benjamins.
Strang, Barbara 1982. Some aspects of the history of the be + ing construction.
In John Anderson (ed.), Language Form and Linguistic Variation. Amsterdam:
Benjamins.
Streitberg, Wilhelm 1891. Perfektive und imperfective Aktionsart im Germanischen.
Beiträge zur Geschichte der deutschen Sprache und Literatur 15: 70–177.
Suppes, Patrick 1974. The semantics of children’s language. American Psychologist
29: 103–114.
272  References
Suzuki, Seeichi 1989. The Morphosyntax of Detransitive Suffixes -þ- and -n- in
Gothic: A Synchronic and Diachronic Study. New York: Peter Lang.
Sweet, Henry 1891. A New English Grammar. Oxford: Clarendon.
Szmrecsanyi, Benedikt 2016. An analytic-synthetic spiral in the history of English.
In Elly van Gelderen (ed.), Cyclical Change Continued, 93–112. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Talmy, Leonard 1985. Lexicalization patterns. In Timothy Shopen (ed.), Language
Typology and Syntactic Description. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Talmy, Leonard 2001. Toward a Cognitive Semantics II. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Tenny,Carol1987.Grammaticalizingaspectandaffectedness.MITPh.Ddissertation.
Tenny, Carol 1994. Aspectual Roles and the Syntax-Semantics Interface. Dordrecht:
Kluwer.
Thorpe, Benjamin (ed.). 1861. Anglo-Saxon Chronicle I and II. London: Longman.
Tobin, Yishai 1993. Aspect in the English Verb. London: Longman.
Tomasello, Michael 1992. First Verbs: A Case Study of Early Grammatical Develop-
ment. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Tops, Guy 1974. The Origin of the Germanic Dental Preterit. Leiden: Brill.
Tortora, Christina 1996. Two types of unaccusatives: Evidence from a Northern
Italian dialect. In Karen Zagona (ed.), Grammatical Theory and Romance Lan-
guages, 251–262. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Traugott, Elizabeth 2017. A horizontal network approach to the development of
ditransitive subschemas in English. SLI talk.
Travis, Lisa 2001. Agents and causes in Malagasy and Tagalog. AFLA VIII. http://
westernlinguistics.ca/afla/meetings/afla8/afla8_program.html
Trips, Carola and Achim Stein 2015. How the English came to like French please.
talk.
Tsunoda, Tasaku 1981. Split case marking in verb types. Linguistics 19: 389–438.
Vendler, Zeno 1957. Verbs and Times. Philosophical Review 66: 143–160.
Verhoeven, Elisabeth 2007. Experiential Constructions in Yucatec Maya. Amster-
dam: John Benjamins.
Verkuyl, Henk 1993. A Theory of Aspectuality. Cambridge University Press.
Viberg, Åke 1983. The verbs of perception: A typological study. Linguistics 21:
123–162.
Visser, Frederik Theodoor 1946–1952. A Syntax of the English Language of
St Thomas More. Louvain: Librairie universitaire.
Visser, Frederik Theodoor 1963–1973. An Historical Syntax of the English Gram-
mar, Vol I–IIIb. Leiden: Brill. Waal, Frans de 2006. Primates and Philosophers:
How Morality Evolved. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Walker, James 2011. The emergence of the narrative present perfect in British Eng-
lish. Groninger Arbeiten zur Germanistischen Linguistik (GAGL) 53.2: 72–87.
Walker, James 2017. The continuing divergence of the narrative perfect. In Marc
fryd (ed.), Aorists and Perfects, 25–41. Leiden: Brill Rodopi.
Warner, Anthony 2007. Parameters of variation between verb-subject and subject-
verb order in late Middle English. English Language and Linguistics 11.1: 81–111.
Watkins, Lauren 1984. A Grammar of Kiowa. Lincoln: University of Nebraska
Press.
Whaley, Lindsay 1997. An Introduction to Language Typology. Thousand Oaks,
CA: Sage.
References 273
Wharton, Jeremiah 1654. The English Grammar. Menston: Scolar Press. [1970
reprint].
Williams, Edwin 1981. Argument structure and morphology. The Linguistic Review
1: 81–114.
Wilson, Bob and Ann Peters 1988. What are you cookin’ on a hot? Movement
constraints in the speech of a three-year-old blind child. Language 64: 249–273.
Wischer, Ilse 2010. On the use of beon and wesan in Old English. In Ursula Len-
ker et al. (eds.), English Historical Linguistics 2008, 217–235. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Wood, Johanna 2003. Definiteness and number: Determiner phrase and number
phrase in the history of English. ASU Ph.D dissertation.
Young, Robert and William Morgan 1987. The Navajo Language: A Grammar and
Colloquial Dictionary. Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press.
Zaenen, Annie 1988 Unaccusative verbs in Dutch and the syntax-semantics inter-
face. Technical Report SSL 123: 317–335.
Zehentner, Eva 2016. On competition and cooperation in middle English ditransi-
tives. University of Vienna dissertation.
Zepeda, Ofelia 1994. A Papago Grammar. Tucson: University of Arizona Press.
Ziegeler, Debra 1999. Agentivity and the history of the English progressive. Transac-
tions of the Philological Society 97.1: 51–101.
Zieglschmid, Andreas Johannes Friedrich 1930. Der Untergang des einfachen
Präteritums in verschiedenen indogermanischen Sprachen. Baltimore: Linguistic
Society of America.
Zubizarreta, Maria Luisa and Eunjeong Oh 2007. On the Syntactic Composition of
Manner and Motion. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
abdicate 96
accelerate 96
accumulate 91, 96
ache 244
activate 96
adhere 2, 57
administer 19
admire 147
adore 18, 147
advance 70, 203, 204, 206
advertise 95
amaze 18
amaze at 18
amble 70
ameliorate 96
amuse 147, 149
anger 18, 64, 78, 79, 81, 85, 134, 147,
149, 155, 161, 162, 172, 173
annoy 147, 155, 166, 236
appall 18
appear 18
arise 2, 6, 57, 67, 86, 106, 161, 162,
164, 174, 197, 210, 227, 255, 274
arrive 3, 10, 11, 28, 31, 33, 37, 47, 57,
58, 67, 68, 70, 74, 255
ascend 67, 70
ask 120, 194, 203, 204, 256
assassinate 96
astonish 18, 147, 162, 163, 165, 168,
248, 249
awaken 36, 94
award 19, 203, 204
backpack 70
bake 195
balbutiate 57, 57
bang (shut) 121, 129, 134 
– 
135
baptize 95
(be)fall 188
be 14, 32, 118, 160, 241
be afraid of 147
be angry at 17, 147
beatify 96
be audible 179, 181
beautify 96
be bored by 147
become 14, 28, 53, 56, 58, 59, 60, 61,
63, 64, 66, 67, 76, 87, 90, 94, 96,
100, 115, 118, 121, 122, 123, 127,
128, 129, 135, 139, 140, 141, 148,
155, 176, 186, 191, 214, 224, 235,
245, 248, 253
beetle 57
befall 121, 127
be furious 147
begin 3, 33, 38, 77, 91, 187, 231, 251
bego 118
begrow 118
belong 3, 27, 33, 124
be surprised 147
be tall 20
be troubled 147, 155
be visible 122, 127, 179, 181
bewitch 18, 162
bicycle 33
bite 39, 80
blacken 36, 93, 94
bleed 109
bloom 37, 44, 57, 71, 140, 246
blossom 3, 4, 33, 37, 57, 136
blow 90, 91, 118, 121, 129,
162, 163
blush 118, 121
bob 57
boil 38, 38, 56, 59, 76, 77, 79, 81, 84,
85, 91
bolt 70
booze 57
Appendix I
Modern English Verbs
Discussed; Old and Middle
English Verbs Discussed
Appendix I  275
bore 17, 18, 147, 162, 184
bounce 70
bound 70
bow 57, 58, 63, 64
bowl 70
break 23, 24, 36, 38, 39, 59, 65, 67,
77, 78, 79, 81, 85, 90, 91, 118, 121,
125, 138
breathe 57, 59, 61
brighten 36, 94
broaden 36, 40, 90, 94
brown 8, 36, 71, 95, 113, 139, 140,
172, 173, 189
bugle 57
build 10, 20, 107, 195
bump 72
burn 14, 33, 38, 40, 56, 65, 76, 77, 79,
81, 85, 86, 87, 88, 90, 91, 121, 129,
209
burp 33
burst 33, 55, 58, 60, 67, 87, 118, 244
bustle 67
buy 72
calcify 96
calculate 225
calm 18
canter 70
caper 57
captivate 96
catnap 57
cause 87, 90, 103, 122, 145
cavort 70
certify 96
charge 70
charm 18, 49
cheapen 36, 94
cheer 147
chide 13, 63, 104, 248
christianize 95
clamber 67, 70
clarify 96, 100, 174, 184, 199
clean 36, 72, 90, 94, 95, 99, 103, 113,
114, 185
clear 36, 90, 95, 122
cleave 57
climb 58, 63, 65 
– 
67, 70
close 5, 8, 38, 42, 53, 77, 91, 167,
186, 232
clump 70
coarsen 36, 94
coast 70
codify 96
coexist 57
cohere 57, 57
coincide 57, 57, 189
collapse 57
come 3, 33, 55–58, 67–68, 70–74, 90,
118, 121, 133, 204, 238, 243–244
commence 118, 121, 129
compact 225
compete 57, 57
computerize 95
concur 57, 111
connect 4, 38, 77, 132, 253
continue 46, 48, 56, 91, 118, 121, 124,
129, 133, 135–136, 141
contribute 1, 19, 22, 178, 252, 253
cook 71, 81, 198
cool 36, 95
co-operate 57, 57
copy out 225
cost 19
cough 3, 23, 24, 33
cower 57
crack 91
crave 18
crawl 33, 58, 66, 67, 70
creep 58, 66, 70
crinch 57
crisp 36, 95
crochet 57
cry 33, 58, 61, 90, 110
curtsey 57
customize 95
dampen 36, 94
dance 1, 29, 33, 47, 49, 51 
– 
53, 67, 71
darken 36, 90, 93, 94, 244
dart 70
dash 70
daydream 33
deafen 36, 94
decapitate 96
decarbonate 96
decay 57, 134
decimate 96
declare 203
decompose 6, 57
decrease 33, 56, 68, 90, 149, 168
deepen 36, 40, 94
defoliate 96
dehydrate 96
deify 96
delight 18, 147, 148, 171
delight in 18, 147, 171
depart 33, 58, 59, 67, 70
depend 21, 43, 57, 57, 238
276  Appendix I
deplore 18
desiccate 96
despise 147
destroy 38, 77, 87, 134, 163, 209
deteriorate 96
detest 18, 147
develop 38, 45, 70, 77, 91, 104, 121,
122, 162, 184, 185, 191, 254
didder 57
die 3, 28, 30, 31, 33, 38, 39, 45, 47,
50, 54, 57, 59, 77, 78, 79, 81, 82,
83, 85, 86, 87, 94, 99
dignify 96
dim 36, 58, 91, 95, 255
dirty 36, 72, 95, 113
disagree 57, 57
disappear 39, 57, 58, 60, 67, 73, 102,
105, 148, 253
disintegrate 96
dislike 18, 147
displease 147, 151
dissipate 225
dissolve 38, 77, 91
distress 18, 147, 151
distribute 225
disturb 18, 90, 147
diversify 96
do 93, 183
dodder 70
donate 19
doze 57
drag 90, 197
dread 18, 147, 148, 151, 154
dream 60, 186
drift 70, 121, 121
drop 12, 33, 37, 58, 60, 70, 79, 87,
186, 210, 248
drowse 57
dry 36, 38, 47, 50, 56, 59, 63, 76, 77,
79, 81, 85, 90, 91, 100, 122
dulcify 96
dull 36
dumbfound 18
dwell 118, 119
eat 10, 11, 15, 19, 21, 34, 71, 72, 78,
79, 81, 85, 98, 109, 110, 190, 204,
238
edify 96
electrify 96
elope 57
embarrass 18
embitter 147
emerge 33, 60
emphasize 2, 6, 65, 95, 159, 184, 248
empty 36, 58, 61, 66
enambush 95
encell 95
encentre 95
enchair 95
encoil 95
end 91
endure 90
enfoil 95
engender 95
enjoy 18
enliven 90, 95
ensue 33
enter 5, 67, 70
eradicate 96
escalate 96
escape 57, 58, 62, 70, 87, 113
estimate 96
evaporate 22, 96, 225
even 36
excite 18
exculpate 96
exhale 57
exhilarate 147
exist 3, 33, 37, 43, 57, 118, 126, 128
explode 91, 225
expostulate 96
exult 57, 57
fabricate 96
faint 57
fall 3, 33, 37, 41, 46, 47, 51, 52, 58,
59, 66, 67, 70, 71, 79, 80, 81, 85,
87, 89, 109, 115, 118, 121, 155,
244, 248
falsify 96
fancy 18
fascinate 114n5, 162
fasten 36, 93
fatten 36
fear 2, 78, 79, 81, 85, 143, 144, 145,
146, 147, 148, 151, 152 
– 
159, 161,
167, 170 
– 
174, 177, 242, 248, 255
feed 19, 78, 79, 81, 85, 110, 177, 203,
204, 206, 217 
– 
219, 248
feel 59, 63, 90, 118, 121, 126, 129,
130, 132, 141, 151, 179, 182, 183,
184, 198, 220, 242, 248, 255
ferment 57
fertilize 95
fester 57
file 70, 190, 214
fill 29, 38, 45, 77, 95, 254
Appendix I  277
find out 179, 200
fine 19, 31, 130
finish 20, 38, 77, 139, 187
firm 36
fix 71, 215
fizz 57
flash 118, 121, 129, 134
flatten 36
flick 197
flinch 57
fling 197
flit 70
float 23, 59, 67, 70, 255
flock 6, 44
flourish 57
flow 11, 31, 57, 59, 87, 122, 204
flower 57
flush 118
fly 70, 90, 118, 121, 129, 134
fly (open) 121, 129
foam 57, 59
follow 8, 11, 33, 44, 86, 90, 145, 152,
184, 219, 223, 229, 232, 249
foot 67, 168
forgive 19
freeze 33, 38, 77, 91, 116
freshen 36
frighten 2, 18, 36, 78, 79, 81, 85, 144,
145, 146, 147, 151, 151, 152 
– 
157,
161, 162, 165, 171 
– 
174, 247
frolic 70
frown 33
fume 147
gab 57
gallop 70
gambol 57, 70
gather 38, 77, 103, 162
generalize 95, 240
gentrify 96
genuflect 57
germinate 96
get 1, 14, 38, 71, 72, 77, 118, 121,
129, 133, 137, 139, 182, 183, 186,
187, 211
get lost 38, 77
giggle 50
give 11, 19, 31, 71, 72, 97, 99, 102,
124, 130, 159, 174, 179, 183, 189,
194, 196 
– 
203, 204, 205, 206,
212 – 216, 218, 224
gladden 36, 94, 147
glance 186, 187
glide 58, 59, 67, 70
glimpse 57, 57
glisten 57, 59
glitter 57, 59, 61
go 25, 38, 43, 47, 51, 54, 55, 56, 57,
59, 62, 65 
– 
67, 69 
– 
72, 77, 87, 90,
97, 99, 113, 118, 119, 121, 126,
140, 187, 190, 204, 208, 226, 238
goosestep 70
go out 77
gratify 18
grieve 2, 18, 63, 147, 148, 162, 163,
164, 166
grieve over 18
grin 33
grow 31, 33, 58, 59, 90, 91, 118, 119,
121, 129, 135, 136, 137, 192, 244
gruntle 57
gyrate 57
halt 57
hang 52, 79, 81, 85, 91, 118
happen 36, 37, 53, 72, 73, 123
harden 36, 90
hasten 36, 59, 66, 67, 70
hate 18, 147, 148, 151, 172, 173
have a look at 186
hear 4, 49, 97, 179, 182, 183, 187, 254
hearken 179
hearten 36
heighten 36
hide 79, 81, 85, 90, 105
hike 70
hit 12, 255
hobble 67, 70
hold 65, 90, 118, 129, 133
hop 33, 70
horrify 96
hospitalize 95
hove 118
humidify 96
hurry 70
hurt 147, 155, 172, 173
hurtle 70
identify 16, 96, 100, 174
impress 176
improve 38, 77, 91, 94
inch 70
include 225
increase 1, 3, 7, 33, 45, 47, 49, 52, 56,
59, 76, 90, 91, 94, 96, 101, 102,
113, 117, 119, 127, 171, 220, 229,
239, 245, 249, 252, 253
indicate 96
278  Appendix I
infuriate 147
inhale 57
integrate 96
intensify 96
interfere 57
invalidate 96
irritate 87, 147, 162, 230
issue out 225
jog 33, 70
journey 70
justify 96
keep 72, 118, 119, 121, 122, 129, 133,
168, 169, 185, 206, 215
kick 72, 197
kill 6, 12, 38, 39, 42, 43, 77, 78, 78,
81, 83, 85, 94, 161, 162, 163
kneel 33, 57, 58, 66, 67
knock 51, 52, 72, 162
know 20, 170, 221–222, 236, 238,
240, 242
languish 57
last 3, 33, 57, 118
laugh 3, 33, 39, 46, 47, 49, 51 
– 
53, 64,
78, 79, 81, 82, 85
leap 67, 70
learn 38, 77, 78, 79, 81, 85, 97, 206,
208, 211, 216
lease 194, 203, 204
legalize 95
legitimize 95
lend 19, 203, 204, 205
lengthen 36, 90
lessen 36, 90
level 16, 36, 122, 247
lie 57, 71, 80, 86, 89, 90, 114n3, 118,
121, 155, 219
lighten 36
like 17–18, 143–151, 170–171, 190,
242–243, 248–249, 253
limp 33, 57, 66, 70, 75n5
linger 57
liquefy 96
liquidate 96
listen to 179
loan 19, 38, 68, 81, 161, 184, 194,
203, 204, 205, 210, 213
loathe 18, 147, 148, 151
lollop 70
long for 18, 90, 151
look 71–72, 81, 121, 129, 131–133, 178–
179, 181–184, 186, 189–192, 248
look at 8, 34, 45, 56, 65, 67, 71, 72,
76, 79, 82, 86, 89, 125, 133, 152,
168, 179, 181, 183, 186, 190, 192,
203, 221, 223
loom 118, 121
loose 36, 86
loosen 36, 86
lope 70
lose 38, 77, 100, 102, 131, 141, 151
love 18, 147–148, 170–173, 239,
242–243, 248–249
lumber 70
lurch 57, 70
lurk 57
luxuriate 57
madden 36, 147, 162, 205
make 1, 39–40, 58, 64, 68, 78–79,
81–82, 86, 89, 90, 98, 104, 108, 113,
116, 118, 159, 177, 183, 194, 206,
212, 216, 249, 253
march 59, 70
marinate 96
marvel in 147
marvel over 18
maximize 95
meander 70
mellow 36
melt 33, 38, 59, 77, 87, 91, 99
mesmerize 95
migrate 57
mince 70
mitigate 96
mobilize 95
modernize 95
modify 13, 52, 96
moisten 36, 87, 90
mollify 96
mortify 96
mosey 70
move 70, 90
muddy 36
mumble 50, 58, 61
mummify 96
mystify 96
nap 57
narrow 5, 36, 83, 110, 255
nasalize 95
neaten 36
neutralize 95
nip 70
nominate 96
nullify 96
Appendix I  279
observe 66, 179, 181, 184 
– 
187, 189
occur 33, 74
offer 19, 225
open 36, 71, 77, 79, 81, 85, 90, 91,
121, 129, 214, 226
operate 56, 96
optimize 95
order 16, 19, 46, 93, 139, 144, 184,
186, 199, 200, 208, 215, 220, 231,
252 – 254
organize 95, 168
ossify 96
overjoy 147
pad 70
pale 36
parade 70
pass 58, 59, 194, 203, 204, 205, 206,
210, 211, 216
patronize 95
pay 4, 19, 56, 66, 203, 204, 206
peddle 203, 204, 206
peep 186, 187
peer 74, 186, 187
perambulate 70
perceive 181, 184, 189
persevere 118, 121
persist 57, 118, 121, 202
perspire 57
pick 72, 214, 226
pity 147, 151
play 3, 33, 47–48, 71–72, 75n1, 90, 118, 122
please 3, 17, 18, 33, 143, 144, 146,
147, 148, 149, 151, 162, 177n1
plod 70
pop 91
postulate 96
prance 70
prate 57
present 225
present out 225
prevail 57, 174
promenade 70
promise 19
propagate 57
prosper 57, 67
prove 118, 121, 129, 133
prowl 70
pull 197, 198
pullulate 57
push 197
put 1, 21, 38, 77, 84, 86, 159
put out 38, 77
puzzle 18, 71, 197
qualify 96
quicken 36, 90
quiet 36, 90
quieten 36
quiver 57
race 70, 233
rain 11, 250, 251
raise 38, 77, 80
ramble 70
ratify 96
rationalize 95
read 12, 24, 71, 109, 172, 188, 240
receive 225, 226
recognize 20, 78
recoil 57
recur 57
redden 36
reduce 1, 14, 33, 45
refer 5, 10, 14, 19, 28, 84
refund 203, 204
refuse 19
regret 18, 147, 151
reimburse 19
rejoice 59, 90, 147
relish 19, 147, 148
relocate 96
reluct 57
remain 3, 6, 33, 57, 90, 94, 115, 116,
118, 119, 121, 122 
– 
129, 133, 135,
136, 140, 141, 165, 185, 203, 247
remember 176, 177
remind 176, 177
render 35, 78, 94, 203, 204, 206, 213,
214, 234
rent 203 – 206
repay 203, 204
report 225
research 4, 171, 225
resent 18, 147
resign 33
rest 97, 118, 121, 125, 126
restore 19, 81, 85
result 57, 118
return 70, 161, 168, 249
revolt 18
ring 33, 118, 121, 129
ripen 36
rise 3, 33, 38, 70, 77, 80
roam 70
roast 91
rock 38, 77
roister 57
roll 26, 38, 39, 70, 72, 77, 91
280  Appendix I
romanticize 95
romp 70
rot 57, 58
roughen 36
round 2, 36, 148, 162, 176
rove 70
rumble 33
run 3, 33, 43, 47, 49, 51, 56, 58, 63,
70, 97, 118, 122, 238, 244
rush 58, 59, 67, 70, 75n5, 169
rust 57
sadden 36
sally 57
salute 57
sashay 70
satisfy 96, 99
saunter 70
say 202–4, 206, 212
scamper 70
scare 147, 162, 169, 172, 173
scarify 96
scoot 70
scram 70
scramble 70
scream 33
scud 70
scurry 70
scutter 70
scuttle 70
seat 78, 79
secede 57
see 182, 183
seem 115, 116, 118, 121, 140, 141,
151, 182
seethe 57, 81
sell 194, 197, 203
send 19, 23, 194, 197, 203, 204, 206,
208, 209, 211, 215, 216, 228, 238, 242
separate 90, 96, 99
serve 19, 31, 48, 172, 203, 204, 206
set 80–81, 85, 89, 155
shake 57, 58, 60, 61, 90, 91
shame 18, 105, 151, 152
sharpen 36
shimmer 57
shine 3, 33, 47, 58, 61
shlep 197
shock 18, 165
shorten 36
shout 33, 59, 211
show 19, 79, 81, 85, 90, 118, 121, 129,
192–193, 196–197, 203–204, 206
shrink 57, 59, 87
shut 36, 121, 129, 134
sicken 36
simplify 96
sink 38, 40, 58, 59, 75n4, 77, 87, 91
sit 71, 79, 81, 84–86, 89, 155, 136, 244
slack 36, 90
slacken 36
sleep 30, 33, 51, 57, 72, 107, 122, 186,
244
slim 36
slither 70
slog 70
slouch 70
slow 36, 58, 60
slumber 57, 58
smarten 36
smell 118, 121, 129, 130, 179, 182
smile 33
smoke 57, 253
smolder 57
smooth 36
sneak 70
sneeze 19, 33
snooze 57
snow 11, 31, 52, 168, 250
sober 36
soften 36
solidify 96
somersault 70
sound 59, 118, 121, 129, 131, 163,
179, 182, 184, 242
sour 36
spare 19
speak 33, 90, 201–202, 204, 206, 211,
216, 236
speed 70, 75n5
spend 66
split 38, 54, 56, 77, 91, 120, 151, 212
spread 33, 38, 77, 87, 91, 121
sprout 57
squeeze 72
stabilize 91, 95
stagger 67, 70
stagnate 57
stand 71, 75n3, 90, 117, 118, 121,
133, 154
stare 187
stay 25, 57, 94, 115, 118, 121, 124,
127, 129, 140, 141, 185
steady 36, 91, 169
stiffen 36
stomp 70
stop 29, 33, 38, 77, 168
storm 11, 32, 46, 52, 107
Appendix I  281
straighten 36, 79
stray 70
streak 70
strengthen 36, 90
stride 70
strike 118, 121, 129, 134, 163
strive 57
stroll 70
strut 70
stultify 96
stumble 70
stump 70
stun 2, 143, 162, 163, 165, 168, 174,
220, 234, 248, 249
subsidize 95
summarize 40, 95
surprise 17, 18, 147, 163
survive 3, 33, 47, 57
swagger 70
sweat 109
sweep 70, 99
sweeten 36, 156
swim 3, 10, 11, 20, 33, 46, 47, 70, 110,
122, 255
swingstep 70, 71
swoon 57, 186
symbolize 95
sympathize 95
systematize 95
tack 70
take 83, 90, 179, 181, 183, 186–187,
203–206, 211
take a look at 89, 179, 181
talk 3, 11, 33, 46, 72
tame 36
tan 36
taste 71, 118, 121, 129, 130, 179, 182
tauten 36
teach 19, 38, 77, 78, 79, 81, 85, 198,
203, 204, 206 
– 
208, 211, 215, 216,
248
tear 70
tense 36
terrify 147, 155
thin 36, 90
thrill 147, 163, 167
thrill at 147, 167
thrive 57
throw 196, 197, 204, 209 
– 
211, 216
tighten 36
tiptoe 70
toddle 70
tolerate 18
totter 70
touch 59, 129, 179, 182
toughen 36
trade 203, 204, 206
traipse 70
tramp 70
transmogrify 96
travel 70, 75n5, 157
trek 70
troop 70
trot 70
trouble 18, 109, 126, 147, 213
trudge 70
trundle 70
turn 38, 70–71, 77, 79, 81, 85, 87,
90–91, 118–119, 121, 129, 140–141,
204, 244
ululate 57
unify 96
utilize 95
vacillate 57
value 18, 168, 228
vault 70
venerate 96, 114n5
vex 147, 155, 161
vilify 96
visualize 95
waddle 70
wade 70
wait 57, 71, 72
wake 38, 77, 185, 186
waken 36, 185, 186
wake up 38, 77
walk 3, 10, 33, 67, 68 
– 
70, 86, 122,
216, 222
wander 58, 67, 70, 90
wane 118
want 71, 110, 172–173
warm 36, 90, 218
watch 133, 169, 172, 178, 179, 181,
184 
– 
187, 189, 190, 211
wax 57, 121, 129
weaken 36
wear 40, 118, 121, 129, 133 
– 
134
weary 90, 147, 148, 155
whiten 36, 94
whiz 70
widen 10, 33, 36, 40
wilt 57
wince 57
wither 57, 87
282  Appendix I
work 3, 33, 122
worry 2, 17, 18, 147, 149, 161 
– 
164
worry about 17, 18
worsen 36
write 10, 71, 109, 198, 223, 239 
– 
241
yap 57
yawn 59, 118
yearn for 18
yell 33, 59, 64
yellow 36
zigzag 70
zoom 70
Old and Middle English verbs discussed
(a)belgan ‘be/become angry’ 87, 155
(a)blican ‘shine’ 58
(a)brædan ‘cook’ 81, 90
(a)byrian ‘taste’ 182
(a)drygan ‘become dry/dry’ 90
(æt)hrinan ‘touch’ 182
(a)fyrhtan ‘frighten’ 81
(a)healtian ‘to limp’ 66, 75n5
(a)lyfan ‘give’ 204
(a/ge/þurh)wunian ‘dwell, rest, be, exist’
118
(a)steorfan ‘die’ 81
(for)sweolgan ‘gorge’
(ge)aforhtian ‘be afraid’ 81, 152
(ge/a)gyltan ‘sin’ 59
(ge)bidan ‘abide, continue’ 118
(ge)dælan ‘divide’ 204
(ge)feallan ‘fall’ 46, 47, 52, 54, 59, 81,
87, 244
(ge)felan ‘feel’ 59, 63, 129, 130, 182
(ge)feran 49
(ge)fredan ‘feel’ 182
(ge)grapian ‘touch’ 182
(ge)hieran ‘hear’ 182
(ge)hrepian ‘touch’ 182
(ge)læran ‘teach’ 204
(ge)learnian ‘learn’ 81
(ge)lician ‘please’ 143, 146, 151
(ge/of)hreowan ‘distress’ 151
(ge)rihtan ‘restore’ 81
(ge)sceawian ‘look’ 182
(ge)seon ‘see, look’ 81, 98, 182
(ge)spedan ‘prosper’ 67
(ge)spowan ‘cause/feel success at’ 151
(ge)standan ‘stand, exist, be’ 90, 117,
118
(ge)stincan ‘smell’ 182
(ge)tæcan ‘teach’ 81
(ge)timbrian ‘to build’
(ge)unnan ‘grant’ 204
(ge)wearðan ‘become’ 120, 139
(ge)weorðan, (ge)weaxan ‘become’ 118
(of)hreowan ‘pity’ 151
abiterian ‘become bitter/make bitter’ 90
ablican ‘shine’ 58
ablin(n)an ‘cease’ 58, 61
abreoðan ‘unsettle/ruin’ 90
a-bylgan ‘anger’ 155
abyrgan ‘taste’ 182
acirran ‘turn’ 90
acsian ‘ask’ 204
acweccan ‘shake’ 90
acwician ‘quicken/revive’ 90
āðīestrian ‘darken’ 90
adruwian ‘dry’ 81, 100
æfnian ‘become evening’ 58, 62
æmtian/emtian ‘become empty’
58, 62
æþmian ‘smell’ 182
ærnan ‘to run’ 97
ætiewan ‘show’ 90
ætstandan ‘stand/remain’ 90
aferscan ‘become fresh’ 58, 62
afulian ‘become fowl, rot’ 58, 62
ahnescian ‘become soft/make soft’ 90
a-hwænan ‘vex, afflict’ 155
alatian ‘to grow sluggish’ 58
aleoran ‘to depart/flee’ 58, 67
ascortian ‘become short/pass away’
58, 62
aslacian ‘become/make slack’ 90
aslapan ‘slumber, fall asleep’ 58
aston(i)e 163
aswapan ‘sweep off, clean’ 99
aswindan ‘perish’ 91, 249
a-þrytan ‘weary’ 155
baðian ‘bathe’ 90
bærnan ‘burn’ 81
bedrincan ‘absorb’ 99, 100
behlehhan ‘laugh at’ 49, 82
behliehhan ‘laugh over’ 81
behofian ‘need’ 151
belifan ‘remain’ 118
belucan ‘enclose’ 99
beon ‘be’ 182
bicumen ‘become’ 53
bifian ‘tremble’ 58, 60, 61
bigan ‘bend’ 87
bladesian ‘smell’ 182
blaken ‘blacken’ 36, 93, 94
blawan ‘blow’ 90
Appendix I  283
eðian ‘smell’ 182
eglian ‘ail’ 151
enferen ‘enfear’ 155 – 156
enhonnie ‘sweeten’ 155, 156
essian ‘waste away’ 47, 59
etan ‘eat’ 81
færan ‘frighten’ 151, 152, 155, 174
fedan ‘feed’ 81, 204
felan ‘feel’ 59, 63
feohan ‘rejoice’ 59
feon ‘rejoice’ 59
feran/faran ‘travel’ 75n5
feran ‘to go’ 97
feren ‘frighten, fear’ 2, 79, 85, 144,
152, 157, 161, 172, 173, 247
firdian ‘to march’ 59
fleon ‘fly/flee’ 90
flicorian ‘flutter, flicker’ 59
fnæstian ‘breathe’ 59, 61
fon ‘take’ 90
forðbringan ‘produce’ 99, 100
forðsiþian ‘go forth, die’ 99
fordwinan ‘vanish’ 59, 67
forgriwan ‘sink in vice’ 59
forhtian ‘fear’ 81
formeltan ‘melt away’ 99
forscrincan ‘shrink up’ 59, 62
forswelgan ‘swallow up’ 99
forþfaran ‘die’ 47, 59, 67
forþframian ‘grow up’ 59
forþgangan ‘go forth’ 59, 62, 67
forþræsan ‘rush forth’ 59, 62, 67
forþsiðan ‘decease’ 59
forþstæpan ‘proceed, pass by’ 59
forþweaxan ‘break forth’ 59, 67
frumlyhtan ‘dawn’ 59
fulfremman ‘fulfill’ 99
fullbetan ‘satisfy’ 99
galan/galian ‘sing/be wanton’ 59
gangan ‘go’
ganian ‘yawn, open’ 59
gan ‘to go’ 97
geærnan ‘to reach’ 97
gedieglan ‘hide’ 90
geferan ‘to reach’ 97
gefrignan ‘learn’ 81
gegan ‘to overrun, subdue’ 97
gegearwian ‘cook’ 81
gegyltan ‘sin’ 59, 62
gehlystan ‘listen’ 182
gehyran ‘to learn about’ 97
gellan/giellan ‘yell, sound, shout’ 59
gemetgian ‘moderate oneself/moderate’ 90
blinnan ‘cease’ 46, 47, 58
blissian ‘be glad/make glad’ 90
blonder ‘blunder’ 67
brædan ‘broaden/grow’ 90
brecan ‘break’ 81, 90
bregdan ‘move quickly/shake’ 90
bringan ‘bring’ 204
brogdian ‘tremble’ 47
buan ‘live’ 90
bugan ‘bend’ 58, 87
burstan/(a)berstan ‘burst’ 58, 244
byrgan ‘taste’ 182
byrnan ‘burn’ 86, 90
cepan ‘look’ 182
cidan ‘chide’ 63
cierran ‘turn’ 90
cirman ‘cry (out)’ 58, 61
cliffian 118
clipian ‘speak, cry out’ 90
cloccian ‘cluck, make noise’ 58, 63
clum(m)ian ‘mumble, mutter’ 58, 61
cneatian ‘argue’ 58
cneowian ‘kneel down’ 58, 67
cnitian ‘dispute’ 58
cnucian ‘knock’ 51
creopan ‘crawl’ 58, 67
cwanian ‘lament/mourn’ 90
cweðan ‘speak’ 202, 204, 206
cwelan ‘die’ 81 – 83
cwician ‘come to life/enliven’ 90
dælan ‘divide’ 90, 203 
– 
206
ðiccian ‘thicken’ 90
dimmian ‘be or become dim’ 58, 62, 244
don ‘do’ 48
dragan ‘drag’ 90
dreopan ‘drop’ 87
driepan ‘moisten’ 87
drincan/en ‘drink’ 36
drohtian ‘live’ 47, 51, 57
drusan/drusian ‘ become slow’ 58
drygan ‘dry’ 90
duf(i)an ‘dive, sink’ 67
durken ‘darken’ 93
dwelian ‘go/lead astray’ 90
dwellan ‘wander/lead astray’ 90
dwelsian/dwel(i)an ‘be led astray’ 58
dwinian/dwinan ‘waste away’ 58
dwolian ‘wander, be led astray’ 58, 67
ðynnian ‘become thin/make thin’ 90
dys(i)gian/dysi(g)an ‘act foolishly’ 59
eac(i)an ‘increase’ 47, 59
eardian ‘live/inhabit’ 90
284  Appendix I
langian ‘long for’ 90, 151
langian ‘long for/lengthen’ 90, 151
latan ‘delay’ 61
laþian ‘loathe’ 151
leanian ‘reward’ 204
learnian ‘teach’ 204
leon ‘lend’ 204
leornian ‘acquire knowledge’ 207
lernen ‘to acquire/impart knowledge’
207
licgan ‘lie, be’ 118
lician ‘please’ 143, 146, 151
lifan ‘live’ 47
locian ‘look’ 81, 133, 181
loken ‘look’
losian ‘lose’ 151
lystan ‘desire’ 151
lytlian ‘lessen/decrease’ 90
macian/maken ‘make’
micelian ‘become great/increase’ 90
mieran ‘scatter/disturb’ 90
minsian ‘diminish’ 90
mislician ‘displease’ 151
miswendan ‘err/abuse’ 90
nearwian ‘become smaller/make
smaller’ 90
nerian ‘save/protect’ 87
nesan ‘escape from/be saved’ 87
niman ‘take’ 232
oferfaran ‘traverse’ 90
ofergan ‘overrun’ 99
ofergan ‘traverse’ 90
oferhelian ‘conceal’ 99
oferswiþan ‘conquer’ 14, 16
oflætan	 ‘give up’ 99
oflician ‘displease’ 151
ofþyncan ‘displease, regret’ 151
oftredan ‘tread down’ 99
ondrædan ‘fear’ 151
openian ‘open’ 81, 90
plegan ‘move’ 48, 90
plegian ‘play’ 47, 48
reccan ‘care’ 151
remaynen ‘remain’
reocan ‘smell’ 182
restan ‘to rest’ 97
rinan ‘rain’ 251
rowan ‘to row’ 59, 75n5, 97
geotan ‘pour’ 90
gerestan ‘to give rest’ 97
gerowan ‘reach by rowing’ 97
gesweccan ‘smell’ 182
gewadan ‘to traverse’ 97
gewinnan ‘to gain, conquer’ 97
giccan ‘itch’ 59
gieldan ‘give’ 204, 206
gieldan ‘give up’ 204, 206
giernan ‘yearn’ 151
gifan ‘give’ 204
gin(i)an ‘yawn, gape, utter a sound’ 59
giscian ‘sob’glide 59, 61
gladian ‘be glad/rejoice’ 90
glisian ‘glitter’ 59, 61
glisnian ‘glisten, glean’ 59
glit(i)nian ‘glitter’59, 61
gnornan/gnornian ‘mourn/be sad’ 59
godian ‘be better/make better’ 90
gremman ‘enrage’ 155
greven ‘grieve’ 166
grimman ‘rage; hasten’ 59
grunian ‘grunt’ 59
gryrran ‘ gnash’ 59
hangian/hon ‘hang’ 81
hawian ‘look’ 182
healdan ‘hold/procede’ 90, 133, 232
hearcnian ‘listen, obey’ 182
heardian ‘harden/make hard’ 90
hefeg(i)an ‘become heavy/make heavy’
90
hildan ‘lean/hold’ 90
hlænan ‘lean/cause to lean’ 90
hlænian ‘become lean/make lean’ 90
hliewan ‘become warm/warm’ 90
hlihhan ‘laugh’ 46, 47, 49, 51, 81, 82
hluttrian ‘become clean/clean’ 90
hremian ‘smell’ 182
hreppan ‘touch’ 182
hungren ‘be hungry’
hweorfan/hwierfan ‘turn/change, die’
57, 90
hwierfan ‘turn/destroy’ 87, 90
hydan ‘hide’ 81
hyran ‘to hear’ 97
hyrstan ‘cook’ 81
lacan ‘jump/play’ 90
lædan ‘lead’ 202, 204
lænan ‘lend’ 204, 205
læstan ‘follow/endure’ 90
lætan ‘let’ 204
Appendix I  285
tacan ‘take’ 204
tæcan ‘show; teach’ 204
tengan ‘to hasten’ 66
þeostrian ‘darken’ 90, 244
þrawan ‘turn’ 204
þringan ‘press (on)’ 90
þurhdreogan ‘carry through’ 99, 100
þurhtrymman ‘corroborate’ 99
þyncan ‘seem, think’ 151, 182
þyncan/ðuncan ‘seem’ 118
tobeatan ‘beat apart’ 99
tolicgan ‘lie/separate’ 90
tostencan ‘scatter’ 90
tostregdan ‘scatter’ 90
tosyndrian ‘separate’ 99
tumbian ‘dance’ 47, 49, 51
turnian/tyrnan ‘turn’ 81
tweogan ‘cause/feel doubt at’
151, 152
tweonian ‘cause/feel doubt at’
151, 152
tydran ‘produce’ 90
wadan ‘to go’ 67, 97
wægan ‘vex’ 155
wanian ‘diminish’ 90
warian ‘remain’ 118
weallan ‘boil’ 81, 84
weorpan ‘throw’ 204
wilnian ‘desire’ 151
windan/wendan ‘change’ 90
winnan ‘to labor, toil’ 97
wirien ‘slay, annoy, suffocate’ 166
wlatian ‘nauseate/be nauseated’ 151, 152
wlitan ‘look’ 182
wlitigian ‘become/make beautiful’ 90
wyrdan ‘annoy’ 155
yfelian ‘become bad/make bad’ 90
ymbhringan ‘surround’ 99
ymbhycgan ‘consider’ 99
yrnan/ærnan ‘run’ 47, 49, 51
sadian ‘weary’ 90
sægan ‘cause to sink/fell/destroy’ 87
samnian ‘assemble/meet’ 90
sargian ‘suffer/cause pain’ 90
sarian ‘become painful/feel sorry for’ 90
sceamian ‘cause/feel shame’ 151
sceamian ‘shame’ 151
sceawian ‘show’ 81
scotian ‘move rapidly’ 90
screncan ‘cause to shrink’ 87
scrincan ‘shrink/wither’ 87
secgan ‘say’ 204, 211
sellan ‘give’ 204
sencan ‘sink, submerge/drown’ 87
sendan ‘send’ 194, 204
seoþan ‘sear’ 81
settan ‘set’ 81
sigan ‘sink/fall/move’ 87
sincan ‘sink’ 87
singan ‘sing’ 48, 102
sittan ‘sit’ 81, 84, 118, 244
sittan ‘sit, be’ 118
slapan ‘sleep’ 244
slincan ‘to creep’ 66
smæccan ‘taste’ 182
sniwan ‘snow’ 11
sprengan ‘scatter/burst’ 87
springan ‘jump/burst forth/spread’ 87
spyrian ‘go/pursue’ 90
staker ‘stagger’ 67
standan ‘stand’ 117, 118
stillan ‘be still/quiet’ 90
stiman ‘smell’ 182
stunian ‘stone’ 163
styrman ‘storm’
swefan ‘sleep’
swegan ‘sound’ 182
swencan ‘harrass’ 155
swiðian ‘become strong/strengthen’ 90
swimman ‘swim’ 46, 47, 53, 54, 255
swutulian/sweotolian ‘become manifest/
make clear’ 90
Abraham, Werner 28, 77, 101, 189, 228
Adger, David 11
Alexiadou, Artemis 54, 145
Allen, Cynthia 101, 102, 146, 147,
150 – 152, 199 – 200
Alter, J. 8, 71, 72, 189
Andersen, Henning 6
Arad, Maya 2, 145, 165
Baker, Mark 16, 117
Bammesberger, Alfred 76, 86
Barnes, Jonathan 77, 78, 79
Barðdal, Jóhanna 76
Basilico, David 198
Bately, Janet 14, 97, 127, 130, 201, 243
Bauer, Laurie 94
Beavers, John 194, 197
Becker, Misha 8, 115, 139, 140,
142n5, 254
Belletti, Adriana 2, 16, 144
Benveniste, Emile 116
Bickel, Balthasar 4
Bickerton, Derek 4, 6
Biese, Y. 120
Bigelow, A.E 72
Bloom, Lois 44, 71, 140, 246
Boas, Franz 43
Bolze, Christine 119
Bonneau, José 243
Borer, Hagit 5, 11, 24, 41
Bossong, Georg 146
Bouchard, Denis 145, 165
Bouso, Tamara 49, 50
Bowerman, Melissa 8, 44, 108 
– 
110
Bowers, John 43, 116
Brinton, Laurel 99, 100, 220, 224
Brorström, Sverker 54
Brown, Roger 8, 71, 113, 139, 140,
172, 173, 189
Broz, Vlatko 75n3, 97, 98
Bruening, Benjamin 196
Bruhn-Garavito, J. 243
Buck, Carl D. 81, 114n2, 181, 203
Bungenstab, E. 102
Burzio, Luigi 27
Bybee, Joan 100, 223, 224, 226,
235, 240
Campbell, A. 120
Carey, Kathleen 227
Carey, Susan 4, 227
Cassidy, Frederic 202
Cennamo, Michela 76, 106
Chapman, R.S. 3
Chomsky, Noam 5, 6, 10, 11, 15, 34,
255
Clancy, Steven 159, 213
Colleman, Timothy 199
Comrie, Bernard 19, 77, 78, 80, 114n1,
195, 197, 221
Conradie, C. Jac 228
Costa, João 4
Crisma, Paola 4
Croft, William 145, 147
Culbertson, J. 8, 71, 72, 189
Curme, George 117
Cysouw, Michael 38
Dahl, Eystein 102, 224, 235, 240
DeClerck, Bernard 199
De Cuypere, Ludovic 199, 201, 202
Demuth, Katherine 8, 71, 72, 189
Denison, David 225, 236
Deo, Ashwini 235, 240, 241
Díaz-Negrillo, Ana 94
Dikken, Marcel den 40, 116
Dimmendaal Gerrit 43
Dowty, David 27
Names Index
Names Index  287
Hartshorne, Joshua 171, 173, 175
Haspelmath, Martin 38, 77, 78, 80,
114n1, 146, 162, 195, 197
Hauser, Marc 4, 5, 255
Hawkins, John 253
Heine, Bernd 137
Hermodsson, Lars 76, 90
Higgins, Roger 116
Hill, Eugen 80
Hiltunen, R. 98, 225
Hodge, Carleton 252
Hoekstra, Teun 40, 116
Hogg, Richard 52
Honig, Werner 4
Hoop, Helen de 3
Hopper, Paul 12
Hornstein, Norbert 11
Hulse, Stewart 4
Hundt, Marianne 239
Husband, Matthew 20
Hyams Nina 4
Iordachioaia, Gianina 145
Israel, M. 49, 50
Jackendoff, Ray 2, 5, 6, 11, 25, 69
Jamison, Stephanie 102
Jeanne, Laverne 42, 43
Jespersen, Otto 7, 55, 95, 147, 150,
236, 237
Jones, Susan 4
Jordens, Peter 44
Jung, Hyun Kyoung 195
Katz, Jerrold 6
Kayne, Richard 9
Keeble, Stephanie 4
Kemenade, Ans van 55
Keyser, Samuel Jay 6, 10, 23 
– 
25, 29,
30, 32, 36, 50, 249, 250, 251
Kilpiö, Matti 54
Kiparsky, Paul 101
Klein, Thomas 181
Klima, Edward 6
Knobe, Joshua 4
König, Ekkehard 104, 105
Koopman, Hilda 22, 23
Koopman, Willem 199
Kortmann, Bernd 239
Koster, Jan 31
Kotin, Michail 94
Krahe, Hans 86
Krämer, Irene 3
Dreschler, G. 253
Duncan, Daniel 239
Durie, Mark 43
Eitelmann,
Matthias 105
Elenbaas, Marion 98
Elmer, Willy 150, 151
Elsness, Johan 229, 230, 234
Enke, Dankmar 235
Eythórsson, Thórhallur 76
Fanego, Teresa 45, 66, 68
Fenning, Daniel 239
Fillmore, Charles 10, 19
Fischer, Olga 147, 148, 150
Fischer, Susan 214
Fisher, Ann 239
Fitch, Tecumseh 5, 255
Fodor, Jerry 6
Folli, Raffaella 64, 145
Fowler, Harry 4
Fraser, Thomas 14, 190
Freeze, Ray 116
Friedmann, Naama 4
Fryd, Marc 229
Fulk, R.D. 52
Gaaf, Willem van der 147, 150
Gabelentz, Georg von der 252
Garcia Garcia, Luisa 155
Gelderen, Elly van 6, 7, 43, 56, 101,
104, 116, 174, 187, 189, 238, 252,
254, 255
Givón, T. 42
Gleitman, Lila 5, 72
Golinkoff, Roberta 4
Goossens, L. 220
Gordon, Lynn 187
Gray, Kurt 5
Greenwood, James 239
Griffin, Donald 5
Grimshaw, Jane 5, 6
Gronemeyer, Claire 139
Gropen, J. 254
Gruber, Jeffrey 5, 11
Hafitz, Jeremy 44, 71, 246
Hale, Ken 6, 10, 23 
– 
25, 29, 30, 32, 36,
43, 50, 187, 249 
– 
251
Hamel, A.G. van 76, 86, 94
Harley, Heidi 6, 11, 18, 42, 43, 64,
145, 194 – 196
288  Names Index
Moro, Andrea 116
Morris, Richard 52, 82, 127, 128, 163
Mossé, Fernand 220, 236, 243
Mühlenbernd, Roland 235
Mustanoja, Tauno 104, 193, 224, 227
Naigles, Leticia 5, 44
Narogg, Heiko 76
Newman, Stanley 43
Nichols, Johanna 77, 78, 79, 80, 81,
85, 114n1
Nickel, G. 225
Oehrle, Richard 18
Ogura, Michiko 54, 105
Oh, Eunjeong 69
Olsen, Mari Broman 44, 71
Ottosson, Kjartan 76, 86, 89, 94, 111,
114n2
Pagliuca, William 100, 224, 226
Peitsara, Kirsti 105
Perkins, Revere 100, 224, 226
Perlmutter, David 27
Pesetsky, David 15, 17, 144, 147, 148,
197, 211
Peters, Ann 72
Peterson, David 77, 78, 79
Petré, Peter 119, 120, 129, 220
Philippi, Julia 101
Pinker, Steven 5, 6, 8, 19, 25, 108, 110,
197, 214, 215, 254
Plank, Frans 77, 80, 111
Pogue, Amanda 171, 173
Postal, Paul 13
Potashnik, Joseph 64
Poutsma, Hendrik 49, 50, 76, 130
Pranka, Paul 43
Premack, David 4
Prokosch, Eduard 76, 86
Pustejovsky, James 10, 19
Pylkkänen, Lisa 145
Quirk, Randolph 188
Ramchand, Gillian 6, 26, 37
Rappaport Hovav, Malka 5, 25, 26, 31,
34, 36, 37, 65, 113, 194, 197, 201,
209, 216, 253
Reinhart, Tanja 11, 27
Rizzi, Luigi 2, 16, 144
Robertson, John 124, 225
Roggia, Aaron 32
Kranich, Svenja 239
Kratzer, Angelica 5, 11, 27
Kuczaj, Stan 8, 189, 226
Kulikov, Leonid 76
Kytö, Merja 54
Lahiri, Aditi 77, 80, 111
Lakusta, Laura 4
Landar, Herbert 41
Landau, Barbara 4, 72
Larson, Richard 18, 22, 195
Lass, Roger 88
Lavidas, Nikolaos 49, 50
Law, Danny 225
Leek, Frederike van der 147, 148, 150
Leiss, Elisabeth 102
Lenz, Philipp 97
Leslie, Alan 4
Levin, Beth 5, 19, 25, 31, 34, 36, 37,
57, 65, 70, 113, 144, 145, 147, 162,
197, 201, 203, 205, 209, 216, 253
Libert, Alan 243
Lifter, Karin 44, 71, 246
Lightfoot, David 6, 146, 147, 150
Lila Gleitman 5, 72
Lindemann, J.W.R. 97
Lloyd, Albert 226
Lohndal, Terje 5, 25, 41
Lorz, Anton 97
Los, Bettelou 49, 220, 253
Lyons, John 116
Macleod, Morgan 228
Malchukov, Andrej 150, 195, 197, 198
Marantz, Alec 5, 27, 43
Markman, Ellen 5
Mazurkewich, Irene 214
McCawley, James 6
McFadden, Thomas 54, 98, 199, 200
McMillion, Allan 80, 85, 90, 91
Meid, Wolfgang 86
Meltzoff, Andrew 4
Miège, Guy 239
Mikhail, John 4
Mikkelsen, Line 116
Miller, J.F. 3, 46, 48, 53, 88, 90
Miller, Thomas 3, 46, 48, 53, 88, 90
Mitchell, Bruce 102, 199, 201, 202
Mithun, Marianne 43
Miura, Ayumi 150
Miyagawa, Shigeru 196
Möhlig-Falke, Ruth 150
Morgan, William 41
Names Index  289
Tobin, Yishai 19, 93
Tomasello, Michael 8, 108
Tops, Guy 80
Tortora, Christina 32
Traugott, Elizabeth 195
Travis, Lisa 27
Trips, Carola 255
Tsunoda, Tasaku 12
Valera, Salvador 94
Verhoeven, Elisabeth 146
Verkuyl, Henk 19
Vezzosi, Letizia 105
Viberg, Åke 178, 179, 183
Visser, F. 7, 13, 45, 48 
– 
50, 54 
– 
58, 61,
63, 73, 75n3, 76, 86, 88 
– 
91, 101,
108, 117, 118, 122 
– 
125, 128, 134,
227, 235 – 238, 244
Waal, Frans de 5
Walker, James 229
Warner, Anthony 55
Watkins, Lauren 42
Waytz, Adam 5
Weinberg, Amy 44, 71
Whaley, Lindsay 2
Wharton, Jeremiah 239
White, Lydia 214
Williams, Edwin 197
Wilson, Bob 72
Wischer, Ilse 119, 120
Wood, Johanna 103
Woodruff, Guy 4
Yanovich, Igor 235
Young, Liane 5
Young, Robert 41
Zaenen, Annie 28
Zehentner, Eva 194, 199, 201
Zepeda, Ofelia 42
Ziegeler, Debra 236, 239
Zieglschmid, A.J.F. 229
Zubizarreta, Maria Luisa 69
Rohdenburg, Günter 104 
– 
106, 253
Rosen, Carol 31
Rothstein, Susan 116
Ruda, Marta 34
Rude, Noel 116
Ruwet, Nicolas 145, 165
Ryan, John 4, 44
Rydén, Mats 54
Sachs, Jacqueline 140
Sanz, Montserrat 243
Sapir, Edward 43
Scheffer, Johannes 220, 238, 239
Shirai, Yasuhiro 193n1
Siemund, Peter 104
Siewierska, Anna 150
Skeat, Walter 31, 47, 52, 55, 76, 91,
94, 114n4, 151
Slobin, Dan 45
Slobodchikoff, Con 6
Smith, Linda 4
Smitterberg, Erik 239
Snedeker, Jesse 171, 173
Snyder, William 4
Soja, Nancy 4
Sorace, Antonella 1, 3, 28, 32, 115
Spaulding, Bailey 4
Spelke Elizabeth 4
Sportiche, Dominique 22, 23
Stein, Achim 255
Stone, M. 6, 19, 43
Storch, Anne 43
Strang, Barbara 220, 239
Streitberg, Wilhelm 97, 98, 226, 243
Suppes, Patrick 140
Suzuki, Seeichi 76, 86, 94
Sweet, Henry 29, 48, 105, 203
Szmrecsanyi, Benedikt 252
Talmy, Leonard 66, 147
Tenny, Carol 5, 6, 20, 27
Thompson, Sandra 12
Thorpe, Benjamin 104, 209,
223, 230
accomplishment 20, 21, 35, 97, 99,
110, 234
accusative 13, 101, 102, 103, 150, 199,
204, 217
achievement 20, 234
activity 20, 41, 68, 67, 71, 110, 178,
183, 184, 191, 222, 234, 236, 238
adjective 6, 30, 36, 60, 89, 94, 96, 108,
114n5, 115, 122, 124 
– 
126, 128,
132, 135, 141, 152, 237
adverb 6, 28, 47, 48, 50, 66, 108, 125,
128, 130, 132, 135, 158, 177n2,
184, 217, 226, 242
agency 4, 5, 12, 78
Agent 1 – 6, 10, 13 – 17, 22 – 24, 27 – 29,
31 
– 
34, 37 
– 
39, 41, 43, 44, 46, 47, 54,
72, 77, 78, 81, 107 
– 
110, 113, 131, 133,
139, 144, 150, 162, 163, 168, 171,
174, 178, 179, 187, 194 
– 
195, 197 
– 
198,
212, 217, 242, 247, 251, 253, 255
ambiguity 97, 124, 126, 128, 132, 135,
145, 156, 160
analytic 1, 39, 45, 85, 91, 112, 178,
251 – 253
animacy hierarchy 2, 8, 143, 145, 158,
159, 163, 174
animate 2, 3, 15, 27, 29, 47, 78, 79,
145, 158, 163, 167, 174, 254, 255
anti-causative 94
applicative 40
Arabic 117, 240, 243
article 21, 102 
– 
103, 146, 223, 229
auxiliary 14, 31 
– 
32, 34, 53, 68, 69,
115 – 116, 120, 127, 136 – 139, 148,
153, 169, 178, 187 
– 
189, 191, 220,
235, 241, 250 – 251
auxiliary selection 31 
– 
32, 250
causative 8, 10, 13, 36 
– 
41, 55 
– 
56, 58,
60, 62 – 64, 68, 72 – 73, 75n4, 76 – 85,
88 – 89, 91, 93 – 97, 107, 109 – 111,
129, 135, 141, 143, 145, 148, 152,
155 – 159, 161, 165, 174, 185 – 186,
192, 194 – 195, 197, 199, 202 – 206,
208 – 214, 216 – 219, 248, 249,
252 – 254, 256
Causer 1 
– 
3, 6, 10, 13, 15, 17, 26 
– 
27,
36, 37, 39, 41, 73, 74, 78, 81, 85,
87, 94, 96, 108, 109, 111, 113,
143 – 145, 150, 152 – 153, 158, 162,
163, 167, 174, 194, 195, 198, 208,
216, 217, 248, 249, 253
c-command 196, 199
change of location 28, 32, 33, 48, 68,
109, 127
change of state verb 32, 82, 109, 110
classificatory verb 41
coercion 6, 18, 21, 113, 166, 186, 234,
249
cognate object 29, 30, 48 
– 
50, 54, 82,
251
cognition verb 143, 146
comitative 44
complement 25, 125, 126, 129, 134,
187 – 189
conceptual structure 5, 6, 10, 21, 22,
25 – 27, 40 – 41, 247, 255
constructionist 11, 23, 25, 26, 41
continuation of a pre-existing state 33
continuous 198, 211, 220 
– 
223, 235,
237, 240 – 242, 245
control 28, 32, 46, 48, 254
copula 1, 8, 59, 63, 71, 115 
– 
141,
178 
– 
180, 182, 184, 187, 189, 190,
242, 248, 252, 254
Topics Index
I have not listed English, aspect, change, acquisition, or argument structure. Please
use the Table of Contents for a broad picture of which topics appear where.
Topics Index  291
dative 13, 17, 61, 63, 101, 102, 127,
150, 199, 200, 204, 214, 244, 245
definite 2, 21, 35, 101 
– 
103, 189
deliberately 15, 28, 29, 47, 56, 64,
170, 176, 197, 198, 212, 217 
– 
218,
242
demonstrative 102, 103, 116, 119, 254
detransitivizing 38, 76 
– 
80, 85, 94
ditransitive 18 – 19, 133, 192, 194 – 195,
197, 198, 199, 202 
– 
206, 209, 210,
212, 213, 215, 217 
– 
219, 248
durative 1 
– 
7, 10, 18 
– 
22, 28, 32,
34 
– 
35, 41, 44 
– 
46, 48, 54, 62, 64,
71 – 72, 75n4, 81 – 82, 84, 96 – 97, 99,
101, 108 – 113, 115, 117 – 118, 124,
126, 129, 131 
– 
133, 139, 141, 145,
160, 165, 168, 176 – 188, 190 – 192,
194, 195, 197 – 199, 202, 211 – 212,
216 – 220, 230 – 232, 234 – 235, 239,
242, 245 – 246
Dutch 28 
– 
32, 34, 40, 44, 47, 54, 67,
68, 81, 223, 228, 231, 235, 240,
250, 251, 253
economy 7, 255
equipollent 77, 78
ergative 10, 16
-er nominalization 64
evolution 5
existence of state 3, 33, 47, 56, 121, 139
Experiencer 1 
– 
3, 10, 15 
– 
18, 22, 41,
71, 74, 81, 118, 129, 131 
– 
134, 141,
143 – 146, 148 – 152, 155, 157 – 166,
168, 170 – 180, 182 – 183, 189, 194,
197, 198, 208, 216, 242, 247 
– 
248,
253 – 255
finite 120, 139
FLB 255
FLN 255
French 8, 31, 38, 67 
– 
68, 78, 81, 95,
100, 124, 135, 152, 162 
– 
164, 177,
193, 197, 205, 210, 222, 223, 225,
242, 249, 255
future 117, 119, 120, 142n4, 203, 247,
255, 256
genitive 13, 17, 49, 61, 101, 103,
142n3, 150, 204
German 31, 44, 54, 67, 77 
– 
81, 102,
171, 204, 223, 228, 240, 245
Goal 2, 3, 8, 15, 17 
– 
18, 21, 34, 69 
– 
70,
144, 156, 194, 195, 197, 201, 202,
208 – 210, 216
habitual 179, 221 – 223, 238 – 242
handling verb 41
Hebrew 29, 47
Hiaki 42
Hindi 183, 240 – 242
Hopi 42 – 43
human 2, 6, 29, 47, 144, 145, 153,
161 
– 
163, 167, 199, 217
hyponomous object 29 
– 
30, 33, 49
identity 66, 116
idiom 43, 196
imperative 20, 29, 47, 56, 67, 119
imperfective 2, 19, 168, 171, 189,
220 
– 
223, 235, 239 
– 
241, 243, 245, 248
Imperfective Cycle 235, 239 
– 
241, 243, 245
impersonal passive 29, 47, 56
inanimate 2 
– 
3, 27, 78 
– 
79, 163, 167, 174,
177, 198 
– 
199, 202, 239, 248, 249
inchoative 36 – 38
incorporation 33, 197, 206
indicative 42, 107, 119 
– 
120, 212, 244
Indonesian 78
infinitive 187 – 189
innate 4 – 6
Instrument 15, 24, 155, 156, 159, 253
intention 4
interface 15, 25, 39
intransitive 1, 4, 8, 11, 13, 38, 39, 42,
45, 48, 49, 54, 56, 57, 60 
– 
61, 63, 67,
70 – 73, 75n1, 76, 78, 80 – 82, 84 – 87,
90, 96 
– 
97, 111, 119, 122, 124 
– 
127,
129, 132 – 134, 137 – 139, 141, 142n3,
155, 176, 184, 185, 210, 215, 218,
247, 255, 256
irrealis 12, 116, 118 
– 
120, 165
labile 1, 8, 37, 39, 56, 58 
– 
62, 64,
66 – 67, 70, 75n4, 76 – 78, 80, 85 – 86,
89 – 91, 94 – 96, 111, 121 – 122, 129,
135, 136, 155, 202, 204, 253
light verb 10, 27, 28, 31, 38, 39, 58,
59, 61, 62, 66, 69, 80 
– 
82, 91, 116,
156, 158, 171, 174, 178, 183, 187,
198, 200, 212, 250, 251
location 15, 28, 32, 33, 48, 66, 68,
109, 116, 127, 201, 253
Manner 4, 10, 15, 19, 22, 25, 27, 29,
34, 41, 45, 65 
– 
70, 94, 113, 114,
161, 194, 211, 254
merge 6, 7, 24, 32, 34, 255
Mongolian 78
mood 115, 117 
– 
120, 122, 123, 137, 187
292  Topics Index
moral grammar 4
motion verb 67 
– 
69, 121
Navajo 41 – 43
Nilo-Saharan 43
non-configurational 16
noun 2, 4, 14, 30 
– 
31, 60, 62, 67, 75n4,
81, 96, 103, 110, 130, 152, 155,
177, 183, 205, 237, 250
number 7, 11, 15, 41 
– 
45, 68, 93, 111,
120, 142n5, 168, 171, 238, 239, 254
object experiencer 17, 18, 71, 144,
148 
– 
150, 152, 155, 157, 158,
161 – 164, 168, 172 – 174, 176 – 177, 254
overgeneralization 110, 112, 254
participle 29, 31, 47, 52 
– 
53, 56, 100,
114n5, 152, 163, 220, 225, 227,
228, 231, 235, 239, 241
particle 19, 21 – 22, 58 – 60, 65 – 67, 198,
214, 215, 224 
– 
226, 231, 245
passive 14, 29, 32, 34, 47, 52, 53, 56,
119, 131, 139, 152, 165, 230, 232,
234, 239, 255
Path 15, 26, 34, 62, 66 
– 
70
perception 5, 9, 20, 118, 121, 129 
– 
131,
143, 146, 178 
– 
192, 204, 247
perfective 2, 19, 21, 22, 53, 96, 97,
99 
– 
101, 110, 165, 110, 165, 188,
189, 191, 203, 220 – 226, 228 – 230,
232, 234, 243 
– 
245, 249
Perfective Cycle 21, 22, 97, 100, 223,
226, 229, 245
permanent 116, 139 – 141
phrasal verb 21, 100
PP 33, 63, 68, 70, 116, 123, 126,
134, 194 – 202, 204, 206, 208 – 211,
214 – 216, 249, 256
Predicative Phrase 116
pre-linguistic 2, 4 
– 
6, 174, 256
preposition 17, 44, 57, 131, 148, 167,
177, 180, 181, 190, 199, 202, 217,
219, 235 
– 
237, 252, 254
present perfect 222, 228, 229, 234
process verb 70
progressive 20 
– 
22, 50, 113, 137,
139, 165, 166, 168, 171, 174, 176,
178 – 181, 189, 220 – 223, 230,
234 – 243, 245, 248 – 249
projectionist 11, 22, 25, 41
psych-verb 2, 8 
– 
9, 17, 18, 27, 74,
143 
– 
175, 220, 248, 249
reaction object 49
reanalysis 2, 4, 56, 103 
– 
104, 114n6,
115, 116, 126, 128, 129, 135, 137,
143, 147 
– 
150, 155, 158, 160, 161,
164 
– 
165, 170, 171, 174, 183, 187,
189, 227, 229, 254, 255
recursion 255
reflexive 1, 14, 78, 80, 91, 97,
104 – 106, 155 – 157, 160, 166, 174,
177, 186, 196, 218, 243, 249
Relator Phrase 116
renewal 8, 46, 66, 68, 70, 119,
143 
– 
144, 148, 161, 162, 168, 174,
178, 184, 187, 223, 225, 229, 256
result 2, 4, 6, 10, 15 
– 
17, 19, 22, 25 
– 
27,
29, 34 
– 
36, 41, 45, 50, 54, 57, 65, 70,
76, 83, 99, 104, 107, 108, 111, 113,
114, 118, 141, 155, 156, 159, 165,
174, 186, 189, 194, 196, 198, 224,
226, 227, 234, 250, 251
Russian 77 
– 
80, 240, 243, 249
simple past 100, 221, 223, 227 
– 
229,
231, 232, 234, 245
Sorace-Hierarchy 54, 247
Spanish 31, 32, 44, 66, 116, 139, 243,
244
stative 1 
– 
3, 5, 7, 10, 14, 20, 22, 27,
32, 41, 71, 115, 117 
– 
118, 121 
– 
123,
129 – 133, 141, 144 – 146, 151, 153,
160, 168, 170, 171, 174, 178 
– 
180,
182 – 186, 222, 231, 232, 239 – 242,
245 – 249
subject experiencer 1 
– 
2, 10, 17, 18, 71,
133, 143 
– 
144, 146, 148, 152, 155,
157, 159, 170, 172, 174 
– 
177,
254, 255
subjunctive 119
suppletion 40, 42 
– 
44, 78
Swahili 240
synthetic 1, 39, 251 
– 
253
telic 1 – 6, 10, 12, 14, 18 – 22, 26 – 28,
32 
– 
36, 41, 44 
– 
46, 62, 68, 71, 72,
75n4, 81, 84, 86, 90, 96 
– 
97, 99,
101, 108, 110, 113 – 115, 117 – 118,
120 – 122, 129, 133, 137, 139 – 141,
144 
– 
146, 151, 153, 156, 158,
165, 174, 176, 177, 183, 186, 192,
194 – 195, 197 – 199, 202, 203, 206,
208, 210, 212 – 214, 216, 218 – 220,
223, 225 – 226, 230 – 234, 243 – 245,
247, 248, 250, 251, 253 
– 
255
Topics Index  293
thematic hierarchy 2, 4, 8, 16, 17, 144,
158, 174
Theme 1 
– 
4, 6, 8, 10, 13 
– 
18, 21, 22,
27 – 35, 37, 41 – 48, 50, 56, 62 – 64,
72, 73, 77 
– 
78, 81, 85, 87, 104,
107 
– 
112, 113, 115, 116, 118, 122,
123, 131 – 133, 138 – 139, 141,
143 – 146, 148, 150 – 152, 157, 158,
162 
– 
165, 167, 174, 177, 178, 187,
194, 195, 208, 247, 248, 250, 251,
253, 255
theta-roles 1, 3 
– 
6, 8, 11, 14 
– 
16, 18,
23, 24, 28, 31, 40 
– 
41, 64, 77, 111,
117, 121, 127, 133, 137, 144, 194,
195, 197, 198, 247, 253 
– 
255
third factor 5, 8, 158
Tigre 240
transitive 1, 3, 8, 10 
– 
13, 24, 28,
35, 38, 40, 41, 49, 54 
– 
61, 63 
– 
65,
67, 68, 71 
– 
73, 75n1, 76, 78, 79,
81, 86 
– 
87, 90, 96 
– 
100, 104, 106,
107, 110 
– 
111, 116, 121, 129,
131, 133 
– 
134, 137, 141, 174,
184 
– 
187, 190, 197, 203, 204, 206,
210 
– 
211, 215, 232, 247, 248,
253 – 255
transitivizing 1, 38, 56, 76 
– 
80, 85, 97,
100, 253
Turkish 240
unaccusative 8, 10, 27 
– 
30, 32 
– 
34, 40,
42, 44 – 47, 51 – 57, 60, 62 – 64, 66,
68, 70 
– 
75, 78, 80, 82 
– 
85, 88, 91,
94 – 96, 107, 111, 115 – 116, 119,
121, 122, 129, 134 
– 
139, 141, 152,
167, 186, 203 
– 
206, 210, 214, 216,
248 – 251, 253 – 255
unergative 1, 8, 27 
– 
34, 40, 45 
– 
49,
51 – 57, 60, 62 – 68, 70 – 73, 78, 82,
84, 90, 107, 121, 139, 184, 185,
187, 204, 248, 250, 253, 254
Uniformity of Theta Assignment
Hypothesis 16
Universal Grammar 5, 6, 16
Urdu 183, 241, 242
valency 11 
– 
14, 41, 56, 76 
– 
81, 85, 96,
106 
– 
107, 111, 160, 225
verb 143 – 177, 178 – 193
visual 118, 133, 178, 181 
– 
186, 189, 191
voice 11, 14, 166
vP-shell 6 – 7, 11, 22, 24 – 27, 40 – 41, 45,
56, 64, 72, 76 
– 
77, 79, 143, 247, 251
VS/SV alternation 29, 32, 47, 55, 56
way-construction 49
weather-verb 12, 247, 249 
– 
251
Zuni 42
