baantje ‘‘job’’ derived from baan ‘‘job’’ is used to refer to a job without
prestige. A related phenomenon is that of the use of attenuative forms.
The English morpheme -ish is often used to express the notion ‘‘sort of,
not exactly’’: when we use nine-ish instead of nine as the time for an
appointment, we mean that we do not expect people to be there at nine
sharp. Thus, we might use morphology to express our subjective feelings
towards something or to weaken or relativize a notion.
The function of inXection is primarily that of making forms of lexemes,
including the correct forms of a lexeme appropriate for particular contexts.
For instance, in an English clause, the verb has to agree with the subject
with respect to number (singular or plural) and person (third or non-third),
and this determines the choice between walk and walks: in a clause with
present tense, walks has to be chosen if the subject is third person singular,
and walk otherwise. In many languages, the form of a noun is determined
by its syntactic context, and each noun has a number of cases. For instance,
the Polish noun kot ‘‘cat’’ has the case forms shown in (11). We call this
structured set of word forms the inXectional paradigm of this lexeme (note
that this is a more speciWc use of the notion ‘paradigm’ as introduced above
in section 1.2). The term ‘inXectional paradigm’ may also be used to denote
the abstract inXectional pattern, the set of labelled cells that these word
forms occupy. As can be read oV this paradigm of case forms, when the
lexeme kot occurs in direct object position and therefore has accusative
case, the word form kota has to be used if the word has a singular meaning,
and the form koty if it has a plural meaning. That is, one of the accusative
forms has to be chosen for this syntactic position.
(11) singular plural
nominative kot kot-y ‘‘cat, subject’’
genitive kot-a kot-ów ‘‘of the cat’’
dative kot-u kot-om ‘‘to the cat’’
accusative kot-a kot-y ‘‘cat, object’’
instrumental kot-em kot-ami ‘‘with the cat’’
locative koci-e kot-ach ‘‘on the cat’’
vocative koci-e kot-y ‘‘o, cat’’
Another function of morphology is that the relation between sentences
in a text can be established by using morphological markers of coreferenti-
ality. In Wambon, a language of New Guinea (examples from de Vries
morphology: basic notions 15
1989: 62), verbal forms have Same Subject (SS) forms and DiVerent Subject
(DS) forms (1sg ¼ Wrst person singular, 3sg ¼ third person singular, nf ¼
non-future):
(12) Nukhe oye khetak-mbel-o topkeka-lepo
I pig see-ss-coord Xee-1sg.past
‘‘I saw a pig and I Xed’’
(13) Nukhe oye khetakha-lev-o topkeka-tmbo
I pig see-1sg.nf.ds-coord Xee-3sg.past
‘‘I saw a pig and it Xed’’
Both examples consist of two clauses, with the coordinating element -o
linking these two clauses. This coordinative morpheme is attached to the
verb of the Wrst clause. The word khetakmbelo in (12) has the Same Subject
form, which indicates that in both clauses we have the same subject ‘‘I’’.
In (13), on the other hand, the word khetakhalevo is a DiVerent Subject
form, which indicates that the subject of the next clause is a diVerent one.
It is not ‘‘I’’, but the pig that Xed. This kind of subject marking is called
switch reference.
1.4 Morphology and the lexicon
The set of lexemes of a language comprises two subsets: simplex lexemes and
complex lexemes. These lexemes are listed in the lexicon to the extent that
they are established, conventionalized units. A complex lexeme like ninish is
a well-formed lexeme of English, but need not be listed in the lexicon since it
is completely regular, and there is no conventionalization involved.
The lexicon speciWes the properties of each word, its phonological form, its
morphological and syntactic properties, and its meaning. The basic structure
of lexical entries for the lexemes swim and swimmer may look as follows:
(14) /swØm/ /swØmer/
[x]V [[x]V er]N
swimactivity person performing swimactivity
The Wrst line in these lexical entries speciWes the phonological form of these
lexemes: a sequence of sound segments between slashes. On the second line,
categorial information, and internal morphological structure of a word are
speciWed. On the third line, the meaning of the lexeme is speciWed, here
16 what is linguistic morphology?
indicated by the use of small capital letters. The subscript activity speciWes
the type of event expressed by this verb. A lexical entry thus expresses a
correspondence between phonological, syntactic, and semantic pieces of
information, just like morphological rules or templates, which do the same
at a more abstract level, in a generalized fashion, with variables taking the
place of the individual properties of lexemes.
Most complex words have been derived by one of the available word-
formation processes of a language. Indeed, as we saw above, one of the
main functions of morphology is to expand the set of available words.
Once a complex word has been formed, it may get established as a word of
the language. This means that it is used by more than one native speaker,
and on diVerent occasions, and that language users will recognize it as a
word they have come across before. The set of established words of
a language functions as the lexical norm or lexical convention of that
language. For instance, in British English the machine that is used for
drawing money from one’s bank account is called a cash dispenser, and in
American English it is called an automatic teller machine (ATM). In fact, it
would also have been possible to use the compound money machine for this
device, but the established words function as a lexical norm, and hence they
can block the creation of the compound money machine. That is, the lexicon
as the set of established lexical units of a language may have a blocking
eVect on the creation of new words. It does not mean that money machine
is an ill-formed word, only that its use might not be appropriate.
When a possible word has become an established word, we say that it has
lexicalized. An important eVect of lexicalization of complex words is that one
of its constituent words may get lost, whereas the complex word survives.
For instance, the Dutch verb vergeet ‘‘to forget’’ no longer has a simplex
counterpart geet, unlike its English counterpart forget for which the corre-
sponding word get does exist. We therefore consider vergeet a formally
complex word. Itstill behavesas a complex verb since itselects a past participle
withoutthepreWxge-,justlikeotherpreWxedverbsofDutch.Forexample,the
past participle of the preWxed verb ver-wacht ‘‘to expect’’ (derived from
the verb wacht ‘‘to wait’’) is verwacht. Similarly, the past participle of the
verb vergeet is vergeten, not *gevergeten. This may be contrasted with the
verb verbaliseer ‘‘to Wne’’ in which the part ver- has no preWx status.
The past participle of this verb is ge-verbaliseer-d, with the preWx ge- present.
The term ‘lexicalization’ is also used for a related phenomenon, namely
that established words may have idiosyncratic, unpredictable, properties.
morphology: basic notions 17
The meaning of honeymoon, for example, is not predictable on the basis of
the meanings of its constituent lexemes honey and moon, and this requires
this compound to be listed in the lexicon. Having idiosyncratic properties
thus implies for a word that it has to be listed, but the inverse is not
necessarily true: a complex word that is listed may have fully predictable
properties, and may be listed only because it is an established word, that is,
belongs to the lexical norm.
The notion ‘lexicon’ refers to the repository of all information concerning
the established words and other established expressions of a language. It is an
abstractlinguisticentity,tobedistinguishedfromthenotiondictionary, which
refers to practical sources of lexical information for the language user in some
material (paper or electronic) form. A dictionary will never provide a full
coverage of the lexicon due to practical limitations of size and requirements
of user-friendliness, and because the lexicon is expanding and changing
daily. The third related notion of relevance here is that of the mental lexicon,
the mental representation of lexical knowledge in the brain of the individual
language user. The mental lexicon of an individual is always smaller than the
lexicon in the linguistic sense: nobody knows all the established words of a
language. Moreover, the mental lexicon exhibits an asymmetry between
production and perception: we understand probably about Wve times more
words of our mother tongue than we actually use in language production.
In many languages, morphology is extremely important for the size of the
lexicon. In all European languages, the number of established complex words
is much higher than the number of simplex words. Consequently, the mor-
phological rules of a language have two functions: they indicate how new
lexemes and word forms can be made, and they function as redundancy rules
with respect to the established complex words of a language. For instance, the
lexical information that lover is a noun, and that the meaning of this word
comprises that of the verb love is redundant information. These properties
arespeciWedinrule(5). Ontheotherhand,theinformation that thisnounisan
established word of English, with a particular idiosyncratic meaning ‘‘male
sweetheart, suitor’’ is unpredictable, non-redundant lexical information.
Morphological patterns that can be systematically extended are called
productive. The derivation of nouns ending in -er from verbs is productive
in English, but the derivation of nouns in -th from adjectives is not: it is
hard to expand the set of words of this type such as depth, health, length,
strength, and wealth. Marchand (1969: 349) has observed some occasional
coinings like coolth (after warmth), but notes that such word coinings are
18 what is linguistic morphology?
often jocular, and hence do not represent a productive pattern. If we want
to coin a new English noun on the basis of an adjective, we have to use -ness
or -ity instead. In the case of unproductive patterns, the morphological
rule involved functions as a redundancy rule only, and not as a rule for
the creation of new words.
Lexical storage of complex morphological forms is also relevant in
the realm of inXection. For example, Dutch has two plural endings for
nouns, -s and -en. The second one is normally used for words consisting of
one syllable. In the case of the monosyllabic noun boon ‘‘bean’’, the regular
plural is bon-en, as expected. However, for zoon ‘‘son’’ both the irregular
zoon-s and the regular zon-en can be used. Hence, the plural form zoon-s
has to be speciWed in the lexicon.
The morphological system of a language is not its only source of complex
words. There are at least three other sources: borrowing, phrases becoming
words, and word creation.
As to borrowing, European languages have borrowed many words from
Greek and Latin, often with French as the intermediary language. Consider
the following list of Dutch verbs and their English glosses:
(15) deduceer ‘‘deduce’’
induceer ‘‘induce’’
produceer ‘‘produce’’
reduceer ‘‘reduce’’
reproduceer ‘‘reproduce’’
A verb like produceer can be analysed into three parts: pro-duc-eer, that is,
it is a polymorphemic word. The constituent -eer is a recurrent part of all
these words, and so is -duc-. The sequences de-, in-, pro-, and re- are also
recognizable elements in this set of verbs. Yet, we cannot say that these
verbs have been created by a rule of Dutch or English morphology since
there is no lexeme duc from which these words could have been derived.
Instead, a word such as produceer has been created by transforming the
originally Latin verb producere, and by adapting its form by turning the
ending -ere into -eer. The polymorphemic nature of such words remains
recognizable in the borrowing languages. These borrowing patterns have
led to a pan-European lexicon, a large stock of cognate complex words in
the major languages of Europe.
A second non-morphological source of complex words is the univerba-
tion (‘‘becoming a word’’) of phrases. Phrases may lexicalize into words,
morphology: basic notions 19
and thus lead to complex words. Examples from English are jack-in-the-
box, forget-me-not (nouns), and dyed-in-the-wool, down-at-heel, over-the-top
(adjectives). The following Dutch words all begin with te-, originally a
preposition, the etymological cognate of English to:
(16) te-gelijker-tijd ‘‘lit. at same time, simultaneously’’
te-rug ‘‘lit. to back, back’’
te-vreden ‘‘lit. at peace, satisWed’’
te-zamen ‘‘together’’
In the Wrst example, tegelijkertijd, the three constituents are clearly recog-
nizable, and their meanings are relevant. The words gelijk ‘‘identical, same’’,
and tijd ‘‘time’’ are current words of Dutch (the form of gelijk used here is
gelijker, with an old inXectional ending -er). Therefore, tegelijkertijd is
a complex, polymorphemic word. So the fact that a word is polymorphemic
does not imply that it has been created by morphological rule. The second
example, the word terug, is also interesting because it serves to illustrate
a recurring problem of analysis for the linguist: when do we consider a word
complex? Although rug ‘‘back’’ is a word of Dutch, it remains to be seen if
we should consider terug a simplex or a complex word. In fact, many native
speakers do not recognize the word rug in terug because of the more abstract
meaning of terug, which no longer refers to a part of the human body.
Language users may also make new words by means of word creation (or
word manufacturing). The following types can be distinguished:
(17) blends: combinations of the Wrst part of one word with the second part of
another: brunch < breakfast þ lunch; stagXation < stagnation þ inXation;
acronyms: combination of initial letters of a word sequence: NATO < North
Atlantic Treaty Organization; French OTAN < Organisation du Traité
de l’Atlantique Nord
alphabetisms: combination of the Wrst letters of words, pronounced with the
phonetic value of these letters in the alphabet: French SVP < S’ı́l vous plaı̂t
‘‘please’’; Dutch KLM < Koninklijke Luchtvaart Maatschappij ‘‘royal airline
company’’; English CD ‘‘compact disc’’, SMS ‘‘Short Message Service’’;
clippings: one or more syllables of a word: mike < microphone, demo
< demonstration, French labo < laboratoire ‘‘laboratory’’, German Uni
< Universität ‘‘university’’.
In the case of compounds, only one of them may be shortened, as
in German U-Bahn < Untergrund-bahn ‘‘metro’’, English e-mail ‘‘electronic
mail’’, and FAQ-list ‘‘frequently asked questions list’’. In ellipsis, the Wrst
20 what is linguistic morphology?
constituent is taken to represent the whole as in Dutch VU < VU-Ziekenhuis
‘‘Free University Hospital’’ (VU is itself an acronym for Vrije Universiteit
‘‘Free University’’). The diVerence between the hospital and the university
meaning of the acronym can still be expressed, because these words diVer
in gender, and hence select diVerent deWnite articles: het VU (hospital) versus
de VU (university).
Instead of the term clipping, linguists also use the term truncation, espe-
cially in relation to the formation of personal names which have an aVective
load and function as hypocoristics (names of endearment). In many cases,
the stressed syllable of the full form is the core of the truncated name, which
consists of one or two syllables (the acute accent indicates word stress):
(18) English Dave < Dávid, Liz < Elı́zabeth, Kate < Kátherine, Sue < Súsan
Dutch Hans < Johánnes, Henk < Héndrik, Sanne < Suzánne
French Dom < Dominı́que, Val < Valerı́e, Fab < Fabrı́ce
Spanish Dina < Alexandrı́na, Marga < Margarı́ta, Neto < Ernésto
Truncation may operate in connection with the addition of an ending. In
English the endings -y or -ie can be added to the truncated form, in German
these truncated names may end in -i, -e, or -o:
(19) English Becky < Rebecca, Suzy < Suzanne, commie < communist
German Andi < Andréas, Daggi < Dágmar, Fundi < Fundamentalist,
Wolle < Wolfgang, Realo < Realist
A characteristic of word creation is that it makes use of reduction for the
creation of new words, unlike normal morphology. Consequently, the
meaning of the new word cannot be derived from its form straightfor-
wardly, and it therefore lacks semantic transparency. In blending, for
instance, the constituent parts that determine the meaning are not fully
present in the word, and hence the meaning is not recoverable from these
constituents. In stagXation, the parts stag- and -Xation do not have them-
selves the meanings ‘‘stagnation’’ and ‘‘inXation’’ respectively. Thus, the
English language user cannot know what the word stagXation means when
hearing or reading it for the Wrst time, unlike what is the case when one
encounters bottle factory for the Wrst time. This also applies to acronyms: if
you do not know a certain acronym, there is no way to Wnd out about its
meaning on the basis of your knowledge of the language. In the case of
clipping, its full form is not recoverable on the basis of the clipping, and so
its meaning is also unpredictable, although it is sometimes possible to
morphology: basic notions 21
guess. Word creation is thus diVerent from word-formation in the strictly
morphological sense, where the meaning of the newly created word is
recoverable from that of its constituents, and it is typically an intentional
form of language use. The lack of transparency of these words serves to
create incrowd groups who understand these shortened words, and so they
have an important sociolinguistic value. They may also establish intimacy
(as is the case for truncated personal names), or informality (German Uni is
more informal than Universität ‘‘university’’).
This overview of word creation does not exhaust the set of special form–
meaning correspondences in words. There is also echo-word-formation, a
kind of reduplication, as in English zigzag, chitchat, French fou-fou ‘‘some-
what mad’’ or with rhyming words (Dutch ietsiepietsie ‘‘a little bit’’,
ukkepuk ‘‘small child’’), and sound symbolism in words beginning with the
same sound sequence. For instance, words with initial sw- typically denote
swinging movements (sweep, swing, swingle, etc.), and the following Dutch
words with kr- all refer to unpleasant, twisted notions: krijs ‘‘to shout’’,
kramp ‘‘cramp’’, krank ‘‘ill’’, krimp ‘‘shrink’’.
The similarity at a more abstract level between morphology proper and
word creation is that both are based on patterns of paradigmatic relation-
ships between sets of words.
So far, we have seen that the set of established words of a language can
be expanded in a number of ways. The lexicon, however, is not just a set of
words, but also comprises word combinations. For example, English (like
most Germanic languages) has many verb–particle combinations, also
called phrasal verbs of the type to look up which clearly consist of two
words which are even separable:
(20) a. The student looked up the information
b. The student looked the information up
The verb look up cannot be one word since its two parts can be separated, as
in sentence (20b). A basic assumption in morphology is the hypothesis of
Lexical Integrity: the constituents of a complex word cannot be operated
upon by syntactic rules. Put diVerently: words behave as atoms with respect
to syntactic rules, which cannot look inside the word and see its internal
morphological structure. Hence, the movement of up to the end of the
sentence in (20b) can only be accounted for if look up is a combination of
two words. That is, phrasal verbs such as look up are certainly lexical units,
but not words. Words are just a subset of the lexical units of a language.
22 what is linguistic morphology?
Another way of putting this is to say that look up is a listeme but not a
lexeme of English (DiSciullo and Williams 1987).
Other examples of lexical multi-word units are adjective noun combin-
ations such as red tape, big toe, atomic bomb, and industrial output. Such
phrases are established terms for referring to certain kinds of entities, and
hence they must be listed in the lexicon. Some languages tend to prefer such
multi-word units to morphologically complex words as denoting expres-
sions. This is for instance the case for the Papuan languages of New Guinea.
In sum, morphology is only one of the means for expanding the lexicon of a
language: there are other ways of creating lexical units, and the set of complex
words can be enlarged by other means than regular word-formation.
1.5 The goals of morphology
The word morphology can be used in two ways: it refers to a subdiscipline of
linguistics, but it may also be used to refer to that part of the grammar of a
language that contains the rules for inXection and word-formation, that is,
the word grammar. This kind of ambiguity also applies to words like phon-
ology, syntax, and semantics. When we talk about the goals of morphology,
it is obviously the Wrst meaning of the word that is relevant here.
Why do linguists want to do morphology? The Wrst reason is that it is the
linguists’ task to describe and analyse the languages of the world as
accurately and as insightfully as possible. Hence, they have to deal with
the morphological phenomena of a language, and therefore need a set of
tools for description. Morphology provides such tools, a set of analytic
notions, which are discussed in greater detail in Chapter 2. A related,
second goal of linguists is developing a typology of languages: what are
the dimensions along which languages diVer, and how are these dimensions
of variation related and restricted? Do all languages have morphology,
and of all possible kinds? Are there explanations for the morphological
similarities and diVerences between languages? The kinds of morphology
that we come across in the languages of the world are discussed in greater
detail in Part II (word-formation) and Part III (inXection).
Third, morphology is a probe into the nature of linguistic systems,
and hence into human, natural language. For example, morphology quite
clearly shows that linguistic structure has two axes, a syntagmatic axis and
a paradigmatic one. Morphology also serves to get a better understanding
morphology: basic notions 23
of the nature of linguistic rules and the internal organization of the
grammar of natural languages. Thus we may get to know more about
the architecture of the human language faculty and about the nature of
rule-governed creativity in the domain of language (Part IV).
Finally, morphology can be used to get a better insight as to how lin-
guistic rules function in language perception and production, and how
linguistic knowledge is mentally represented. Both psychological and
historical evidence throw light on this issue. Thus, morphology contributes
to the wider goals of cognitive science that explores the cognitive abilities of
human beings (Part V).
Summary
Morphology, the study of the internal structure of words, deals with the
forms of lexemes (inXection), and with the ways in which lexemes are
formed (word-formation). New words are made on the basis of patterns
of form-meaning correspondence between existing words. Paradigmatic
relationships between words are therefore essential, and morphology can-
not be conceived of as ‘the syntax of morphemes’ or ‘syntax below the word
level’. Morphology serves to expand the lexicon, the set of established
words of a language, but is not the only source of lexical units, and not
even that of all complex words, which also arise through borrowing,
univerbation, and word creation.
The established (simplex and complex) words of a language are listed in
the lexicon, an abstract linguistic notion, to be distinguished from the notions
‘dictionary’ and ‘mental lexicon’. Morphological rules have two functions:
they specify the predictable properties of the complex words listed in
the lexicon, and indicate how new words and word forms can be made.
Morphology as a subdiscipline of linguistics aims at adequate language
description, at the development of a proper language typology, and at
contributing to debates on the organization of grammars and the mental
representation of linguistic competence.
Questions
1. My English–Dutch dictionary does not mention all English adverbs in -ly.
However, it does mention the adverb supposedly. Why do you think this
exception is made?
24 what is linguistic morphology?
2. Why should we consider taxable a case of derivation rather than com-
pounding although able is a lexeme of English?
3. Give the morphological structure (labelled bracketing) of the following
English words: unhappiness, contrastive, disconnecting, contradiction,
blue-eyed, connectivity.
4. Try to determine the morphological constituency (if any) of the following
English words: colleague, cordial, correlate, electrometer, elongation,
evaporate, eternity, euphemism, habitual, happy, music, negotiable, perform-
ance, theology. To what extent do these words raise problems for morpho-
logical analysis?
5. Here is a set of pairs of singular and plural nouns in Oromo, a language
spoken in Ethiopia and Kenya (Stroomer 1987:76–7).
raadda raaddoollee ‘‘young cow(s)’’
uwaa uwoollee ‘‘woman/women’’
eela eeloota ‘‘well(s)’’
kobee kobeellee ‘‘shoe(s)’’
kobee koboota ‘‘shoe(s)’’
harree harreellee ‘‘donkey(s)’’
sangaa sangoollee ‘‘ox/oxen’’
Which plural endings are found in these data?
6. Consider the following English verbs: forbid, forget, forgive, forgo, forswear.
What evidence can you adduce for these verbs being complex?
7. What kind of sound symbolism may be involved in the following English
verbs: spew, spit, spout, spatter, sprout, sprawl ?
8. A bilingual child with parents who have different native languages may be
said to have a mother tongue and a father tongue. How can we account for
the coining of father tongue?
9. Blending is quite popular as a means of creating new English words. Try to
come up with some meaning for the following recent blends: falloween,
giraffiti, metrosexual, nicotini, pedlock. Why can’t you be sure about their
meanings if you happen not to know them? (You can find the meanings of
these words on the website www.wordspy.com.)
10. Bacronyms are words that are reinterpreted as acronyms, for instance
George as a name for an organization with the acronymic interpretation
Georgetown Environmentalists Organized against Rats, Garbage, and
Emissions.
a. Which kind of word creation is the word bacronym itself an instanti-
ation of ?
b. Do you know bacronyms in your native language?
morphology: basic notions 25
Resources for morphology
The internet is a very useful resource of information about languages and
linguistics. Important websites for morphologists are Linguist List
(www.linguistlist.org), the website of the Summer Institute of Linguistics
(www.sil.org), with many links to other relevant websites, and www.
yourdictionary.com where one can Wnd morphological subgrammars
and morphological parsers for a number of languages. A survey of the
languages of the world is found in Grimes (2003): www.ethnologue.com.
A website devoted to recent English neologisms is www.wordspy.com.
Two recent handbooks of morphology are Spencer and Zwicky (1998),
and Booij et al. (2000–4 ¼ BLM in the references; in vol. i you will Wnd a
number of articles on the history of morphological research). The classical
handbook of English morphology is Marchand (1969). Spencer (1991)
and Carstairs-McCarthy (1992) are textbooks on morphology, with a lot
of attention to current theoretical debates in morphology. A number of
important articles on morphology have been reprinted in Katamba (2004).
Further reading
Morpheme-based morphology is defended in Lieber (1980), Selkirk (1982),
and DiSciullo and Williams (1987). Morphology as ‘syntax below the word
level’ is argued for in Lieber (1992).
The notion word-based (¼ lexeme-based) morphology is defended in Aron-
off (1976) and in Anderson (1992). The importance of paradigmatic relation-
ships for morphology is highlighted in van Marle (1985) and Becker (1990a).
The relation between morphology and the lexicon is discussed in detail in a
number of publications by Jackendoff (1975, 1997, 2002). The principle of
Lexical Integrity is defended in Bresnan and Mchombo (1995).
The functions of word creation are clarified in Ronneberger-Sibold (2000).
Word creation and sound symbolism in English are dealt with extensively in
Marchand (1969).
26 what is linguistic morphology?
2
Morphological analysis
2.1 The atoms of words
Words can be chopped into smaller pieces. At the phonological level, words
can be divided into syllables or segments, and segments into their constitu-
ent phonological features. At the morphological level, words may consist
of more than one unit as well, which we may call the morphological atoms
of a word: pieces that are no further divisible into morphological subparts.
Just as there are diVerent kinds of atom in chemistry, there are diVerent
kinds of atom in morphology, and it is quite useful for morphological
analysis to be acquainted with their classiWcation. A good classiWcation is
an important analytic instrument, developed in order to get a better under-
standing of the structure and formation of words.
As we saw in Chapter 1, the Polish lexeme kot ‘‘cat’’ has a paradigm of
case forms; compare this to the case forms of the noun kobieta ‘‘woman’’ in
(1). Each cell of the paradigm of Polish nouns is occupied by a grammatical
(1) singular plural
nominative kot kobiet-a kot-y kobiet-y
genitive kot-a kobiet-y kot-ów kobiet
dative kot-u kobieci-e kot-om kobiet-om
accusative kot-a kobiet-e
˛ kot-y kobiet-y
instrumental kot-em kobiet-a
˛ kot-ami kobiet-ami
locative koci-e kobieci-e kot-ach kobiet-ach
vocative koci-e kobiet-o kot-y kobiet-y
2.1 The atoms of words 27
2.2 Morphological operations 34
2.3 Morphological typology 41
Summary 45
Questions 45
Further reading 47
word, i.e. a form of a lexeme with a particular property for the grammatical
categories number and case. Grammatical words may share the same word
form. For instance, both the gen.sg and the acc.sg form of kot have the
form kot-a. The phenomenon that two or more grammatical words have
the same word form is called syncretism. The distinction between lexeme,
grammatical word, and word form shows that the general notion ‘word’
subsumes a number of diVerent notions. In most cases it is clear which
interpretation of ‘word’ is intended, but sometimes it will be necessary to
use the more speciWc notions.
Each of the word forms of kot consists of a stem and an inXectional
ending (or desinence). The stem of a word is the word form minus its
inXectional aYxes, in this example kot-. It is the stem that forms the basis
for word-formation, not the whole word form. This might not be so clear
for the Polish noun kot, because the nom.sg word form kot of this word
happens to have no overt ending. However, the noun kobieta does have an
overt ending. For that reason, one may speak of a zero-ending for
the nom.sg. form of kot, and likewise for the gen.pl form of kobieta.
The following example from Italian also illustrates the role of the stem. The
singular form of macchina ‘‘machine’’ has the inXectional ending -a, and
the plural ending is -e:
(2) macchin-a ‘‘machine’’ macchin-e ‘‘machines’’ macchin-ista ‘‘machinist’’
It is the stem macchin- that is used as the basis for word-formation, as
shown by macchinista. In English, the form of the stem is identical to that
of the sg word form, and this is why English morphology is sometimes
qualiWed as word-based morphology, in contrast to the stem-based morph-
ology of, for instance, most Romance and Slavic languages. This is a
superWcial diVerence: these languages all have lexeme-based morphology,
they only diVer in that the stem-forms of lexemes do not always corres-
pond to word forms.
Stems can be either simplex or complex. If they are simplex they are
called roots. Roots may be turned into stems by the addition of a morpheme,
as the following examples from Polish (Szymanek 1989: 87) illustrate:
(3) a. butelk-a ‘‘bottle’’ b. butelk-owa-ć ‘‘to bottle’’
Wltr ‘‘Wlter’’ Wltr-owa-ć ‘‘to Wlter’’
bial-y ‘‘white’’ biel-i-ć ‘‘to whiten’’
głuch-y ‘‘deaf’’ głuch-na
˛-ć ‘‘to become deaf ’’
28 what is linguistic morphology?
The verbs in (3b) are given here in their citation form, the inWnitive. The
citation form is the form in which a word is mentioned when we talk about
it, and the form in which it is listed in a dictionary. In many languages, the
inWnitive is the citation form of a verb. In languages with case, the nom.sg
form is the citation form of nouns. Each of these Polish inWnitives consists
of a root, followed by a verbalizing morpheme that turns the root into a
stem, and is followed by the inWnitival ending -ć. It is the stem-forms that
are used when new words are derived from these verbs.
Stem-forming suYxes play an important role in many Indo-European
languages. Italian verbs, for instance, have a thematic vowel after the
root morpheme, and this thematic vowel recurs in words derived from
these verbs:
(4) larg-o ‘‘wide’’ al-larg-a-re ‘‘to widen’’
profond-o ‘‘deep’’ ap-profond-i-re ‘‘to deepen’’
al-larg-a-ment-o ‘‘widening’’
ap-profond-i-ment-o ‘‘deepening’’
The thematic vowel is not a part of the root, as it does not occur in the roots
larg- and profond-. On the other hand, it cannot be seen as part of the
inWnitival suYx, because we do not want to miss the generalization that all
inWnitives end in -re. Hence, the vowels preceding the ending -re must be
assigned a morphological status of their own. Consequently, the noun
allargamento contains Wve morphemes: a preWx al-, a root larg, a thematic
vowel -a-, the derivational morpheme -ment, and the inXectional ending -o.
So this word has Wve morphological atoms, which cannot be decomposed
further into smaller morphological constituents. Each of these Wve atoms
has a diVerent name because they have diVerent functions in the make-up
of this word.
The general term for bound morphemes that are added to roots and stems
is aYx. If an aYx appears before the root/stem, it is a preWx, if it appears
after the root/stem, it is a suYx. So al- and ap- are preWxes, whereas -a,
-ment, and -o are suYxes. Two other types of aYxation are illustrated in (5):
(5) inWx (within a root): Khmu (Laos) s-m-ka:t ‘‘roughen’’ < ska:t ‘‘rough’’;
Alabama (Stump 2001: 131) ho-chi-fna ‘‘smell, 2sg’’ < hofna ‘‘to smell’’, chiWp-
as-ka ‘‘poke, 2pl’’ < chiWpka ‘‘to poke’’;
circumWx (combination of preWx and suYx): Dutch ge-Wets-t ‘‘cycled, past
participle’’ < Wets ‘‘to cycle’’; German Ge-sing-e ‘‘singing’’ < sing ‘‘to sing’’
morphological analysis 29
InWxation and circumWxation are much rarer than preWxation and
suYxation.
AYxes are bound morphemes, but not all bound morphemes are aYxes.
There are many roots from Greek and Latin that are used in so called
neo-classical compounds but do not occur as words by themselves. These
compounds are called ‘neo-classical’ because they consist of constituents
from the classical languages Greek and Latin that were combined into
compounds long after these languages ceased to be ‘living languages’.
In such compounds either one or both constituents are not lexemes:
(6) micro-: micro-scope, micro-phone, micro-gram, micro-wave
tele-: tele-phone, tele-vision, tele-communication
-graph: di-graph, sono-graph, photo-graph, tele-graph
-scope: micro-scope, tele-scope, cine-scope, spectro-scope
Neo-classical roots such as scope and graph can also be used nowadays as
words, but in that case they have a more speciWc meaning than in these
compounds. Such non-lexical roots are called combining forms since they
only occur in combination with other morphemes. These bound roots cannot
be considered aYxes since that would imply that words such as necrology
would consist of aYxes only. This goes against the idea that each word has
at least one stem. Thus, we might adapt our deWnition of what compounds
are, and deWne them as combinations of lexemes and/or non-aYxal roots.
The bound morphemes in neo-classical compounds have an identiWable
meaning, but there are also morphemes that have no clear meaning. In the
word cranberry the part berry is identiWable, and this makes us interpret
the word cranberry as denoting a particular kind of berry. Yet, cran- has no
particular meaning. Similarly, the Dutch compound stiefvader ‘‘stepfather’’
denotes a particular kind of father, and hence can be parsed into stief and
vader. However, the morpheme stief does not occur as a word. This
phenomenon of cranberry morphemes is widespread, and is to be expected
since complex words can lexicalize and thus survive, even though one of their
constituent morphemes has disappeared from the lexicon. The following
examples from Dutch illustrate the same phenomenon for derived words
with suYxes that are still used for coining new words (the constituent
before the suYx does not occur as a lexeme):
(7) arge-loos ‘‘naive’’, beslommer-ing ‘‘chore’’, dier-baar ‘‘dear, precious’’, le-lijk
‘‘ugly’’, moei-zaam ‘‘diYcult’’, sprook-je ‘‘fairy tale’’, veil-ig ‘‘safe’’
30 what is linguistic morphology?
These recognizable suYxes determine the syntactic category of the word of
which they form a constituent. For example, -baar is a suYx that creates
adjectives, and hence dierbaar is predictably an adjective. This implies that
when we have to decompose words into morphemes, not all morphemes
have an identiWable lexical or grammatical meaning. Cranberry morphemes
like English cran- and Dutch dier- thus form a problem for an exclusively
meaning-based deWnition of the notion morpheme. This also applies to
another kind of non-aYxal bound root, the recurrent constituents of
words borrowed from Latin such as the following English verbs:
(8) conceive, deceive, perceive, receive
adduce, deduce, induce, produce, reduce
admit, permit, remit, transmit
It makes sense to consider these words complex, because of recurrent
elements such as ad-, con-, de-, in-, per-, pro-, re-, and trans- which are
preWxes, and bound roots like -ceive, -duce, and -mit. Although these bound
roots have no identiWable meaning, they should be recognized as mor-
phemes since they determine the form of corresponding noun: all verbs
in -ceive have a corresponding noun in -ception, those ending in -duce one in
-duction, and verbs in -mit one in -mission. There is a wealth of such bound
morphemes in the non-native part of the English lexicon, as the following
examples illustrate:
(9) arct-ic, cred-ible, in-del-ible, gradu-al, mor-al, mus-ic, negoti-ate, per-for-ate,
per-nic-ious
In lexeme-based morphology these bound roots do not have a lexical entry
of their own, they only occur as part of established (listed) complex lex-
emes. In morpheme-based morphology, on the other hand, they will have
to be represented as bound lexical morphemes with their own lexical entry.
The advantage of the lexeme-based approach is that it correctly predicts
that new combinations of a preWx and a bound root such as demit or
perduce are not to be expected, because we cannot assign a meaning to
such new combinations.
Boundness of morphemes is also created through allomorphy.
Allomorphy is the phenomenon that a morpheme may have more than
one shape, corresponds with more than one morph. A morph is a particular
phonological form of a morpheme. Allomorphy is found in both aYxes
and root morphemes. In the Italian examples in (4) we saw the preWxes
morphological analysis 31
al- and ap-. In fact, these are two allomorphs of the preWx ad-, in which the
Wnal consonant /d/ has assimilated to the Wrst consonant of the root
morpheme. This kind of allomorphy can be accounted for by assuming
one common underlying form /ad/ for the diVerent allomorphs of this preWx,
and a rule of assimilation that derives its diVerent surface forms.
Allomorphy is also found in root morphemes. In languages such as
Dutch, German, and Polish, obstruents (that is, stops and fricative con-
sonants, which are articulated with a high degree of obstruction in the
mouth) are voiceless at the end of a word. Hence we get alternations of
the following kind in pairs of singular and plural nouns:
(10) Dutch hoed [hut] ‘‘hat’’ hoed-en [huden]
German Tag [ta:k] ‘‘day’’ Tag-e [ta:ge]
Polish chleb [xlEp] ‘‘bread’’ chleb-y [xlEbØ]
The symbols between brackets represent the phonetic forms of these word
forms; the phonetic symbols are taken from the International Phonetic
Alphabet (IPA). This is the alphabet used in dictionaries and grammars to
indicate the phonetic forms of words in an unambiguous way. This is
necessary because orthographical conventions diVer from language to
language. For instance, the vowel [u] is represented as u in German, but
as oe in Dutch, as illustrated by the Wrst example in (10).
Some linguists prefer to restrict the term ‘allomorphy’ to those cases in
which the variation in phonetic shape of a morpheme does not follow from
the automatic phonological rules of the language. The alternation between
voiced and voiceless stops exempliWed in (10) is determined by a phono-
logical constraint that excludes voiced obstruents in syllable-Wnal (Dutch
and German) or word-Wnal (Polish) position. Hence, the variation in
shape of these morphemes is an automatic eVect of the phonology of the
language. This is usually accounted for by assuming a common underlying
form for the diVerent realizations of the morpheme involved, with a
morpheme-Wnal voiced obstruent. In the singular forms that lack an
overt ending, a process of syllable-Wnal or word-Wnal devoicing then
applies. The plural forms will not undergo this process because in these
forms the relevant segments do not occur in Wnal position.
This type of alternation can be contrasted to the alternation between
voiceless and voiced obstruents in English, as in the singular–plural word
pair wife–wives. This alternation applies to a small and closed set of English
words only. That is, there are alternations that are restricted to a speciWc set
32 what is linguistic morphology?
of words. Another example is that the Dutch diminutive suYx has Wve
diVerent shapes (-tje, -je, -etje, -pje, and -kje); the choice of one of these
depends on the phonological composition of the stem. For instance, the
allomorph -je has to be selected after stems ending in an obstruent. The
alternations involved are unique to diminutive words, and do not follow
from general phonological constraints of Dutch. Therefore, a distinction is
made between phonology proper (the variation of the kind mentioned in
(10) that is the eVect of automatic phonological rules) and morphophonol-
ogy, the domain of phonology in which alternations are restricted to a
speciWc subset of words. The term ‘allomorphy’ might therefore be reserved
for such non-automatic alternations, which can be accounted for in
two ways. One option is to assume a common underlying form for the
allomorphs, and derive the surface forms by means of one or more
morphophonological rules, that is, rules whose application depends on
non-phonological properties such as the feature diminutive. Alternatively,
the allomorphs can be listed individually in their surface form, with
a speciWcation of the phonological context in which they occur.
In some cases the non-automatic alternation is unique for one or a few
words. For instance, the English adjective platonic, related to the noun Plato,
has the morphological structure platon-ic, with the root platon- and the suYx
-ic. The morpheme platon-, an allomorph of Plato, is a bound morpheme
since it does not occur as a word of its own. This kind of allomorphy,
a heritage from Greek (in the case of Plato) and Latin, increases the
set of bound non-aYxal morphemes enormously. An example from the
Latinate substratum of English is act, act-or vs ag-ent with the bound root
ag-. Although it has to be listed, the allomorph platon- does not require its
own entry in the lexicon: it can be speciWed in the lexical entry for Plato as
the allomorph to be used for the derivation of words from Plato by means of
non-native suYxes. The same applies to the bound root ag-.
Another, more radical form of formal variation in paradigms is the
phenomenon of suppletion, where there is no phonological similarity
between the diVerent forms of a lexeme. In the English word pair good–
better we observe the suppletive root bet for good, followed by the compara-
tive suYx -er. Thus, we might say that the lexeme good comprises two
diVerent stems, good and bet. In the pair bad–worse the suppletive simplex
form worse even expresses both the meaning of the stem bad and the
comparative meaning. Some linguists also use the notion ‘suppletion’ in
the domain of word-formation. In the following examples of inhabitative
morphological analysis 33
names in Italian you can observe a formally regular case of derivation, a
case of allomorphy, and a case of suppletion respectively:
(11) Milano–Milan-ese, Forlı̀–Forliv-ese, Chieti–Teat-ino
Although alternations in the phonological shape of a morpheme may not
be the eVect of the phonology of a language, the choice of a particular
allomorph or suppletive root can still be phonologically conditioned (Car-
stairs 1988; Kiparsky 1994). For instance, the Dutch agentive suYx -aar is
selected after stems ending in the vowel [e] þ l, r, n (that is, in a phonolo-
gically deWned environment), and the allomorph -er elsewhere. The Italian
verb andare ‘‘go’’ has two suppletive roots: and- when the root is not
stressed, and vad- when the root is stressed in the verbal paradigm; see
(12). This example illustrates that the choice between suppletive roots may
be phonologically governed as well.
(12) singular plural
1.pers vádo andiámo
2.pers vái andáte
3.pers vá vánno
2.2 Morphological operations
Morphology does not only deal with the analysis of existing words into their
constituent pieces. The language user is able to make new words or forms of
words, and it is this form of creativity that is the focus of morphology. The
key notion involved is that of ‘morphological operation’. This term denotes
a particular kind of linguistic activity, and invokes a dynamic perspective on
morphology. Two types of morphological operations have been discussed
so far: compounding and aYxation. They are the prototypical cases of
concatenative morphology, in which morphological constituents are concat-
enated in a linear fashion. Compounding and aYxation are the most
widespread types of morphology since they create words with a high degree
of transparency, that is, words of which the formal morphological structure
correlates systematically with their semantic interpretation.
The formal operations available in morphology have several functions.
AYxation is used both in word-formation and in inXection, and this applies
toanumberofothermorphologicaloperationsdiscussedinthissectionaswell.
34 what is linguistic morphology?
For each morphological operation, we have to deWne the set of base
words to which it applies. Often, the operation is restricted to base words of
a particular syntactic category. This is the input category of the operation.
The outputs of an operation also belong to a speciWc syntactic category.
The input category of the English suYx -able is V, and the output category
is A. Hence, verbs are the base words of the suYx -able. Thus, in the case of
derivation, the morphological operation may result in words of another
syntactic category or subcategory than that of the input words. In that case,
we speak of a category-changing or class-changing operation.
If compounding and aYxation were the only kinds of morphological
operation, morphology could be said to consist of just one operation—
concatenation. In such a view, the elements to be concatenated are lexemes
and aYxes. AYxes are provided with a subcategorization feature that
speciWes with which kind of morphological elements it has to combine.
For instance, the suYx -able will be speciWed as [V—]A, which means that it
takes verbs to form adjectives.
The reason why the term ‘morphological operation’ is more adequate
than the term ‘concatenation’ is that there are also morphological processes
that do not consist exclusively of the attachment of aYxes to words. In this
section I present a short survey of these operations, which are dealt with in
more detail in subsequent chapters on derivation and inXection.
A special kind of aYxation is the attachment of a complete or partial
copy of the base as a preWx or a suYx. This is called reduplication, illus-
trated by the following examples (Uhlenbeck 1978: 90) from Javanese:
(13) a. full reduplication:
baita ‘‘ship’’ baita-baita ‘‘various ships’’
sesupe ‘‘ring’’ sesupe-sesupe ‘‘various rings’’
omaha ‘‘house’’ omaha-omaha ‘‘various houses’’
b. partial reduplication:
geni ‘‘Wre’’ gegeni ‘‘to warm oneself by the Wre’’
jawah ‘‘rain’’ jejawah ‘‘to play in the rain’’
tamu ‘‘guest’’ tetamu ‘‘to visit’’
In the examples of partial reduplication, the preWx consists of a copy of the
Wrst consonant of the base followed by the vowel schwa [e]. The doubling
eVect of full reduplication is often reXected by its meaning contribution: for
nouns it may express plurality or distributivity (as in 13a), for verbs a high
intensity of the action expressed, and for adjectives a higher degree of the
property mentioned by the adjective.
morphological analysis 35
Reduplication is a kind of aYxation (or compounding, in the case of
full reduplication), and hence to a certain extent a case of concatenative
morphology. Yet, it is clear that we cannot list reduplicative aYxes with
their phonological content in the lexicon since this content depends
on the phonological composition of the stem. The obvious analysis
is the assumption of an abstract aYx red(uplication) that triggers a
phonological operation of copying. The copy is then attached to the
copied stem.
A second type of morphological operation is the use of tone patterns.
Tone patterns belong to the suprasegmental properties of languages. In
Ngiti, the plural form of kinship terms is expressed systematically by the
tone pattern Mid–High on the stem, whatever the tone pattern of the
singular (Kutsch Lojenga 1994: 135):
(14) singular plural
àba-du abá-du ‘‘my father(s)’’
adhà-du adhá-du ‘‘my co-wife(s)’’
andà-du andá-du ‘‘my uncle(s)’’
Thus, we may speak of a tonal morpheme Mid–High which is superimposed
on the segmental material of the stem of these nouns. This is why such a
tonal morpheme is sometimes called a supraWx. This is a case of non-
concatenative morphology since this kind of aYx is not linearly ordered
with respect to its base.
Many languages make use of internal modiWcation. Standard examples
are the patterns of vowel alternation in the roots of the so-called strong
verbs in Germanic languages, called ablaut, vowel gradation, or apophony.
Such vowel alternations are used in a number of Indo-European languages
for diVerent forms of the verb:
(15) Classical Greek: leip-o ‘‘I leave’’; le-loip-a ‘‘I have left’’, e-lipon ‘‘I left’’
The e in the Wrst root form alternates with o in the second, and zero in the
third (the second form also exhibits partial reduplication). This pattern of
vowel alternation is reXected in Germanic languages, as the following
examples from Dutch illustrate:
(16) geef [ge:f] ‘‘to give’’ gaf [gAf] ‘‘gave’’ gegeven [gege:ven] ‘‘given’’
help [hElp] ‘‘to help’’ hielp [hilp] ‘‘helped’’ geholpen [gehOlpen] ‘‘helped’’
schiet [sxit] ‘‘to shoot’’ schoot [sxo:t] ‘‘shot’’ geschoten [gesxo:ten] ‘‘shot’’
36 what is linguistic morphology?
Vowel alternations also play a role in the derivation of deverbal nouns of
such verbs, as shown by the related Dutch deverbal nouns hulp ‘‘help’’ and
schot ‘‘shot’’. They only diVer from their verbal bases help and schiet with
respect to the root vowel.
Ablaut is not the only kind of vowel alternation with a morphological
function. German exhibits an alternation between back vowels and front
vowels in singular–plural noun pairs:
(17) Apfel [Apfel] Äpfel [Epfel] ‘‘apple(s)’’
Bach [bAx] Bäche [bEçe] ‘‘brook(s)’’
Buch [bu:x] Bücher [by:çer] ‘‘book(s)’’
This kind of alternation is called umlaut (also called vowel mutation or
metaphony). Historically it is a case of assimilation: back vowels of roots
are fronted before a high front vowel in the following syllable (the plural
suYx contained a high vowel originally).
If we only take the Wrst example of (17) into consideration, we might
conclude that plural formation in German is a case of non-concatenative
morphology: the plural is created by the replacement of the back root
vowel by its front counterpart. However, an alternative analysis in terms
of aYxation is also possible. Given the three examples in (17), we
might conclude that there are at least three diVerent plural suYxes in
German: ø (zero), -e, and -er. In addition, the plural nouns may exhibit
stem allomorphy, a vowel alternation triggered by the attachment of the
plural suYx. Such morphologically conditioned alternations may also aVect
consonants (Lieber 1987, 2000). English has cases of consonant modiWcation
as well, for instance defend–defence, oVend–oVence, belief–believe, and
proof–prove.
An interesting kind of non-concatenative morphology is found in,
among others, Semitic languages: root-and-pattern morphology. The basis
of each lexeme is a skeleton of consonants, in most cases three, which
functions as the root of the lexeme. The abstract pattern of consonants is
combined with one or more vowels which are intertwined with the sequence
of consonants. In addition, the lexeme may contain a preWx and a suYx. In
the words of Modern Hebrew in (18) (Clark and Berman 1984: 545) the
roots g-d-l ‘‘grow’’ and k-t-b ‘‘write’’ have been used (the k and b may
surface as x [x] and v respectively). The vowel patterns that are intercalated
with the consonantal skeletons are called transWxes since they are spread
across the consonantal sequence.
morphological analysis 37
(18) Pattern Root g-d-l Root k-t-b
CaCaC gadal ‘‘grow, get bigger’’ katav ‘‘write’’
hiCCiC higdil ‘‘enlarge’’ hixtiv ‘‘dictate’’
CCiCa gdila ‘‘growth’’ ktiva ‘‘writing’’
miCCaC migdal ‘‘tower’’ mixtav ‘‘letter, missive’’
haCCaCa hagdala ‘‘enlargement’’ haxtava ‘‘dictation’’
The morphological structure of the words in (18) can be represented as
the linking between three diVerent morphemes. Each of these morphemes
forms a phonological tier of its own: (i) the skeletal tier that consists of a
pattern of consonantal and vocalic slots that is characteristic of a particular
morphological category, (ii) the sequence of consonants that represents the
lexeme, and (iii) the vowels that Wll the vocalic slots of the skeletal tier.
The words gadal and gdila in (18) can be represented as in Figure 2.1. The
consonants of the lexical root, and the vowel pattern (a-a for the base verb
and i-a for the nominalization) are both linked to the central skeletal CV
tier. These three tiers are then conXated into one sequence of sounds at the
phonetic level of the grammar, where the phonetic forms of words are
speciWed.
Fig. 2.1 Three-tiered representations of words
The morphological operations discussed so far all have the eVect that the
phonological form of the input word is changed somehow. Conversion, on
the other hand, consists of a change in syntactic (sub)category only. The
conversion of nouns to verbs is quite common in European languages; see
(19). The verbs are given here in their citation form, the inWnitive. The
conversion from noun to verb is not indicated directly by means of an aYx,
and is therefore also called implicit transposition, as opposed to explicit
transposition, which denotes cases of category-changing word-formation in
which the change is marked through the addition of an aYx. Note that
conversion does have indirect morphological eVects: the verbs in (19) are
recognized as such by their verbal inXectional endings, the inWnitival
38 what is linguistic morphology?
suYxes (except the English verb since there is no overt inWnitival ending in
English). The category change may also have an eVect on the stress pattern,
as in the English pair convért (V)—cónvert (N), where the noun is derived
from the verb, with concomitant stress shift from the last to the Wrst syllable.
(19) Noun Verb
Dutch Wets ‘‘cycle’’ Wets-en ‘‘cycle’’
English chain (to) chain
French guide ‘‘guide’’ guid-er ‘‘guide’’
Latin corona ‘‘crown’’ coron-a-re ‘‘crown’’
If one wants to treat conversion as a kind of aYxation, one is forced to
assume a zero-morpheme that is added to the input word. However, there is
no independent evidence for such a zero-aYx, and we do not even know if
the zero-morpheme should be taken to be a preWx or a suYx. Therefore,
conversion as exempliWed in (19) is better analysed in terms of the following
morphological rule:
(20) [x]N ! [[x]N]V
The verbs in (19) therefore have the structure [ [X]N]V.
A deWning property of the notion ‘conversion’ is that it has a direction:
in the examples above, the verb has been derived from the noun. This
phenomenon must therefore be distinguished from multifunctionality, the
situation in which words can be used for diVerent syntactic categories without
a particular direction in the relation between these diVerent uses of words. In
Maori, for example,the word waiata can beusedas a verb ‘‘to sing’’, asa noun
‘‘song’’, and as a participle ‘‘singing’’ (Bauer 1993: 510). In Sranan, a creole
language of Surinam, the word hebi functions as an adjective ‘‘heavy’’, a noun
‘‘weight’’, an intransitive verb ‘‘to be heavy’’, and a transitive verb ‘‘to make
heavy’’ (Voorhoeve 1979: 43).
Change of category without overt morphological marking is also found in
the case of middle verbs, which are intransitive and denote a property, whereas
the corresponding activity verb denotes an activity (examples from Dutch):
(21) Deze aardappelen schillen gemakkelijk
These potatoes peel easily
‘‘These potatoes are easy to peel’’
Mars hapt zo heerlijk weg
morphological analysis 39
Mars eats so nicely away
‘‘Mars is so pleasant to eat’’
(Mars is a kind of candy bar.) This kind of change from one subcategory of
verbs to another subcategory may be subsumed under conversion because
there is a clear direction in the relation between the verbs involved: the
middle verb is derived from the activity verb.
In Chapter 1 you were introduced to the notion of paradigmatic word-
formation, in which a morphological constituent of a word is replaced with
another one. A typical case of this kind of word-formation is aYx substi-
tution, the replacement of one aYx with another. In Dutch, female
counterparts of agent nouns can be formed by replacing -er with -ster
(Booij 2002a: 6):
(22) aanvoerd-er ‘‘captain’’ aanvoerd-ster
betwet-er ‘‘lit. better knower, pedant’’ betweet-ster
rederijk-er ‘‘rhetorician’’ rederijk-ster
reizig-er ‘‘traveller’’ reizig-ster
oproerkraai-er ‘‘ring leader’’ oproerkraai-ster
The operation of substitution as a viable way of making new words has
developed from systematic relationships between words derived from the
same base. In this case, both -er and -ster can be added to Dutch verbs to
form agent nouns. Thus a pattern [X-er]N: [X-ster]N could be observed,
which was then extended to other nouns in -er without a straighforward
verbal base. For instance, there is no Dutch verb reizig ‘‘to travel’’, and yet,
the agent noun reiziger has a female counterpart in -ster. The presence of
the /d/ in aanvoerdster also betrays that this word is derived from aanvoer-
der. The /d/ does not belong to the verbal stem aanvoer ‘‘to lead’’, but is part
of the allomorph -der that is used after stems ending in /r/. Since it is -er that
is replaced, the /d/ shows up in the female agent noun as well.
A prototypical case of paradigmatic word-formation is back formation in
which the direction of derivation is inverted: the less complex word is
derived from the more complex word by omitting something. Well-known
examples from English are to sculpt from sculptor, and to babysit from
babysitter. The noun sculptor is a borrowing from Latin. Because English
has word pairs of the type V[Vþor]N, (terminate–terminator, etc.),
the verb sculpt could be reconstructed from the noun sculptor by reinter-
preting this word as having the structure [ [sculpt]Vor]N. The paradigmatic
dimension involved here is that a word ending in -or is assigned an internal
40 what is linguistic morphology?
morphological structure with a verbal base on the basis of existing
verb–noun pairs such as terminate–terminator.
The emergence of the verb to babysit can be reconstructed as follows.
The word babysitter is a regular compound consisting of two nouns, baby
and the deverbal noun sitter. However, there is no general process of N þ V
compounding in English. The exceptional NV compound babysit could
therefore only arise through back formation. In the same way, the Dutch NV
compound stofzuig ‘‘to vacuum-clean’’ arose through back formation from
the regular NN compound stofzuiger ‘‘lit. dust sucker, vacuum cleaner’’.
In the cases of to babysit and stofzuig, the structure [ [N] [V -er]N]N has
been reinterpreted as [ [N V]V -er]N, and subsequent back formation led
to the rise of these N þ V compounds.
2.3 Morphological typology
The catalogue of morphological operations presented in section 2.2 raises
the question to what extent the languages of the world make use of these
possibilities. First, we can locate each language on a scale of degree of
synthesis, the average number of morphemes in a word. On one end of the
scale we Wnd isolating languages that do not make use of morphology at all.
A classical example of such a language is Vietnamese (which, however, is
said to have compounds). At the other end of the scale we Wnd polysynthetic
languages such as Greenlandic and Alaskan Yup’ik, languages in which
words may contain a considerable number of suYxes after the root.
Before we have a look at some relevant examples, I will Wrst give a short
clariWcation of the notational conventions used in interlinear morphemic
translation. These conventions are of considerable importance for our
understanding of the structure of sentences and words. A space marks the
boundary between two words, and a hyphen represents a boundary between
two morphemes within one word. Lexical morphemes are represented by
lower case letters, and grammatical categories by small capitals. If one
morpheme on the Wrst line represents more than one piece of lexical or
grammatical information in the morphemic gloss, the categories are separ-
ated by a dot, as in the following Latin example (Lehmann 1982: 205):
(23) Manu-s manu-m lava-t
hand-nom.sg hand-acc.sg wash-3sg
‘‘One hand washes the other’’
morphological analysis 41
The only exception to this use of the dot is its absence in combinations of
the category person and the category number, as in 3sg.
Let us now have a look at some examples of polysynthetic words in
which the conventions just discussed are also exempliWed—Wrst Green-
landic (Fortescue 1984: 273) and then Alaska Yup’ik (Mithun 1999: 28):
(24) tuqu-riikatap-puq
die-long.ago–3sg.indic
‘‘He died long ago’’
anglani-tu-llru-u-nga caknek
enjoy-customarily-past-ind.intr-isg very.much
‘‘I used to enjoy myself very much’’
The Wrst example is a sentence of one word only, the second one contains
two words. When we compare this with the number of words in the English
glosses (four and seven respectively), we get some idea of what it means for
a language to be polysynthetic.
The second scale on which we may rank languages as to their morpho-
logical properties is that of fusion. In some languages, a word is easily
segmentable into its constituent morphemes. An example is Turkish, a
language that is therefore characterized as agglutinative: the stem of
a word is followed by one or more suYxes, each with their own meaning:
(25) çocuk-lar-nız-dan
child-pl-your.pl-abl ‘‘from your children’’
Most Indo-European languages are fusional in their inXectional system
since diVerent inXectional properties are often expressed by one and the
same morpheme. In the Polish word form koty ‘‘cat, nom.pl’’ the ending -y
expresses simultaneously the properties nominative and plural. In the
English word walks, the ending -s expresses three properties: present
tense, singular, and 3.person. Such units that serve to express more
than one morphological property are called portmanteau morphs.
When a language tends to be more agglutinative, it will tend to have
more morphemes per word than a fusional language, and hence it will be
higher on the scale of synthesis as well. The average number of morphemes
per word in Turkish is estimated to be four times higher than that in
English (Csató and Johanson 1998: 208).
The kind of typological classiWcation discussed so far mainly has a
descriptive and orientational function: by locating a language on a number
42 what is linguistic morphology?
of scales, we know roughly what kind of morphological system we may
expect. But it does not provide Wne-grained classiWcations. Germanic lan-
guages are fusional in their inXectional systems, but agglutinative in their
system of derivational word-formation. Moreover, for an adequate de-
scriptive classiWcation other parameters are also relevant, for instance the
parameter of reduplication: languages of the Austronesian family make
wide use of reduplication patterns, whereas this does not apply to most
Indo-European languages of Europe. Languages may also diVer in the
extent to which they make use of preWxation or suYxation.
Morphological typology becomes theoretically interesting if it enables us
to predict certain properties of a language on the basis of other properties.
For instance, the following morphological universal has been proposed by
Greenberg (1963: 95):
(26) If a language has the category of Gender, it always has the category of
Number.
This universal has the form of an implication, and hence it predicts that of
the four following logically possible languages only the Wrst three exist:
(27) a. Languages with Gender and Number
b. Languages with Number only
c. Languages without Gender or Number
d. Languages with Gender only
Thus, an implicational universal is a restriction on the class of possible
natural languages, and hence contributes to the deWnition of the notion
‘possible natural language’.
Some implicational universals pertain to markedness phenomena.
Markedness is the asymmetrical distribution of properties. An example
of a markedness universal is that there are many languages in which the
singular is not expressed by a morpheme, but only the plural, whereas there
are no languages where only the singular is expressed by a morpheme. For
example, the asymmetric distributional pattern of singular and plural
morphemes given in Table 2.1 has been found. This table shows that
languages with a singular morpheme only must be excluded in order
to restrict the degree of variation in natural language. Hence, we might
formulate the following implication universal for this markedness pattern:
‘if singular number is expressed by a morpheme, then plural number
as well’.
morphological analysis 43
This generalization concerning the expression of number has to be
amended slightly, however. There are languages where, for those entities
that always occur in pairs or in groups, the plural form of the noun has no
overt suYx, and the singular form ends in a singulative suYx. This is
the case for Turkana (Dimmendaal 1983: 224–8), a language of Kenya
with the singulative suYxes -a and -it (the preWxes are gender markers):
(29) singulative plural
E-sØkØn-a ‘‘breast’’ N-sØkØn ‘‘breasts’’
e-turkàna-Øt ‘‘Turkana person’’ N-tùrkanà ‘‘Turkana people’’
This reversal of the markedness pattern concerning singular–plural in a
special domain is called local markedness (Tiersma 1982).
The use of hierarchies in morphological typology is illustrated by the
following hierarchy for the diVerent values for the category number:
(30) singular > plural > dual
This hierarchy ranks singular above plural, and plural above dual. It
expresses that singular forms are less marked than plurals, and plurals
are less marked than duals. This means that if a language has a dual (that
is, a word form with 2 as the value for the category number), it has also a
plural, and if a language has a plural, it also has a singular. Hence, this
hierarchy restricts the variation space of natural language: certain types of
logically possible languages are excluded, such as a language with singular
and dual only.
Not all the typological universals are absolute ones; some are statistical
tendencies only. For instance, there are many more languages that only
use suYxes (Turkish is an example) than there are languages that only use
preWxes. Hence, there is a suYxing preference in natural languages. Yet,
there are languages that are exclusively preWxing, so there is no absolute
universal involved here. Many of the universals discussed in Greenberg
(1963) are of this statistical nature.
Table 2.1. Distribution of Number morphemes
Absence of sg morpheme Presence of sg morpheme
Presence of pl morpheme English, Dutch Latvian, Italian
Absence of pl morpheme Chinese, Maori
Source: Croft 1990: 69.
44 what is linguistic morphology?
Summary
Words can be divided into diVerent kinds of morphemes such as roots and
aYxes, the morphological atoms of language. These morphemes may vary
in shape (allomorphy), a variation that does not always follow from the
phonological system of the language. In the case of suppletion, diVerent
stems co-occur in the paradigm of one lexeme.
The set of morphological operations available to human languages
comprises more than concatenation: conversion, reduplication (concaten-
ation plus copying), diVerent types of phonetic modiWcation, root-and-
pattern morphology, and paradigmatic word-formation also play a role.
Languages do not all make the same use of the available morphological
operations, and can be classiWed according to the indices of synthesis and
fusion. In addition to this purely classiWcatory typology, morphologists
make cross-linguistic comparisons of morphological systems in order to Wnd
constraints on the degree of morphological variation of natural language.
Questions
1. Identify the bound constituents of the following English words: disagree-
able, acceptability, ungrammaticality, discriminatory, permafrost, fascination,
protolanguage, versification, intolerance, productivity, unidirectionality.
2. Consider the sets of morphologically related words in French in the table
that exhibit variation in the underlined vowel of their base word (Dell and
Selkirk 1978).
Base word Derived words
[œ] [œ] [c]
fleur ‘‘flower’’ fleurette ‘‘small flower’’ floral ‘‘floral’’
seul ‘‘alone’’ seulement ‘‘only’’ solitude ‘‘solitude’’
peuple ‘‘people’’ peuplade ‘‘tribe’’ populaire ‘‘popular’’
[E] [E] [a]
vain ‘‘idle’’ vainement ‘‘in vain’’ vanité ‘‘vanity’’
clair ‘‘clear’’ éclairer ‘‘to light’’ clarifier ‘‘to clarify’’
mer ‘‘sea’’ amerrir ‘‘to land on the sea’’ marin ‘‘sailor’’
africain ‘‘African’’ Africaniste ‘‘Africanist’’
humain ‘‘human’’ humanité ‘‘humanity’’
similaire ‘‘similar’’ similarité ‘‘similarity’’
morphological analysis 45
a. Formulate the rule that accounts for these vowel alternations.
b. Is this rule an automatic phonological rule or a morphophonological
rule?
3. In the following past tense forms of English verbs, the past tense suffix has
three different phonetic shapes: kept, walked, kissed, hugged, lived, added,
fitted, coded.
a. Which are the three phonetic forms of this suffix?
b. Formulate the rules (or rule) that account for this phonetic variation.
4. Make a morphological analysis of the following words of the Amerindian
language Cree, and give the interlinear morphemic glossing of the last
word (Cowan and Rakušan 1985: 111):
niwa:pahte:n ‘‘I see (it)’’
kiwa:pahte:n ‘‘you see (it)’’
niwa:pahte:na:n ‘‘we see (it)’’
kiwa:pahte:na:wa:w ‘‘you (plural) see (it)’’
nima:čiše:n ‘‘I cut (it)’’
kima:čiše:n ‘‘you cut (it)’’
nima:čiše:na:n ‘‘we cut (it)’’
kima:čiše:wa:w ‘‘you (plural) cut (it)’’
nitapin ‘‘I sit’’
kitapin ‘‘you sit’’
nitapina:n ‘‘we sit’’
kitapina:wa:w ‘‘you (plural) sit’’
5. Consider the following past tense forms of English: kept, wept, slept. Which
kinds of operation have been used for making these verbal forms?
6. In written Arabic, verbs can be derived from nouns, as the following ex-
amples (Becker 1990b: 14) show:
zayt ‘‘oil’’ zayyata ‘‘to oil’’
bukla ‘‘buckle’’ bakkala ‘‘to buckle’’
turki: ‘‘Turk’’ tarraka ‘‘to Turkify’’
tilifu:n ‘‘telephone’’ talfana ‘‘to telephone’’
tilifiziu:n ‘‘television’’ talfaza ‘‘to televise’’
a. Give a three-tiered representation of the verbs bakkala and talfana.
b. Give the consonantal template and the vowel template for the mor-
phological category of denominal verbs.
7. The following are singular and plural nouns in Bulgarian (Cowan and
Rakušan 1985: 99):
teáter teátri ‘‘theater(s)’’
bóber bóbri ‘‘beaver(s)’’
pésen pésni ‘‘song(s)’’
psalóm psalmı́ ‘‘psalm(s)’’
báncik báncigi ‘‘band saw(s)’’
ı́zverk ı́zvergi ‘‘monster(s)’’
46 what is linguistic morphology?
Give the (morphological and phonological) rules for plural noun formation
for this set of word forms.
8. Which types of morphological processes are involved in the following
forms (Melčuk 2000: 528) of the Tagalog verbs patáy ‘‘to kill’’ and sulat
‘‘to write’’?
9. Consider the following pairs of singular and plural nouns of Agta (Wiltshire
and Marantz 2000: 558):
takki taktakki ‘‘leg(s)’’
labáng lablabáng ‘‘patch(es)’’
uffu ufuffu ‘‘thigh(s)’’
Formulate the morphological rule that accounts for the formation of the
plural nouns.
10. In Italian, adjectives can be derived from nouns and adjectives through the
addition of the suffix -oso or -astro, as illustrated by the following examples
(source Scalise 1984: 59):
fama ‘‘fame’’ famoso ‘‘famous’’
virtú ‘‘virtue’’ virtuoso ‘‘virtuous’’
giallo ‘‘yellow’’ giallastro ‘‘yellowish’’
blu ‘‘blue’’ bluastro ‘‘bluish’’
Give the stem-forms of the four base words listed here.
Further reading
A survey of the different types of morphological operations can be found
in chapter 8 of BLM, and in Payne (1997). A detailed analysis of vowel and
consonant mutation is given in Lieber (1987). The multi-tier interpretation
of root-and-pattern morphology has been proposed by McCarthy (1981). This
kind of morphology is also found in a number of non-Semitic languages
(Broselow 2000).
Formal theories of morphology as a set of operations on lexemes (processual
morphology) have been developed in Anderson (1992) and Stump (2001).
Morphological typology is discussed in Comrie (1981) and Croft (1990).
The suffixing preference is dealt with in Cutler et al. (1985). The verbs of the
Athapaskan language Slave are famous for their morphological complexity
past present
active pumatáy pumápataý
sumulat sumusulat
passive pinatáy pinápatáy
sinulat sinusulat
morphological analysis 47
(Rice 1989, 2000), and Amerindian languages in general for their polysyn-
thetic nature (Mithun 1999). Polysynthesis is discussed from a theoretical point
of view in Baker (1988, 1996, 2001). Possible explanations for the suffixing
preference are discussed in Hawkins and Cutler (1988), and in Hall (1988).
Information on the World Atlas of Language Structures that also includes
morphological typology can be found at http://linguistics.buffalo.edu/
people/faculty/dryer/dryer/atlas. The Universals Archive of the University of
Konstanz may be consulted at http://ling.uni-konstanz.de/pages/proj/
sprachbau.htm. The website of the Surrey Morphology Group provides typo-
logical information on agreement and syncretism: http://www.surrey. ac.uk/LIS/
SMG.
A standard for interlinear morphemic glossing is presented in Lehmann
(1982). More recent versions are the set of glossing rules proposed by the
Leipzig typologist group, based on Lehmann (1982), which can be found at
www.eva.mpg.de/lingua/index.html, and Lehman (2004).
48 what is linguistic morphology?
Part II
Word-Formation
This page intentionally left blank
3
Derivation
3.1 Lexeme formation
The basic function of derivational processes is to enable the language user
to make new lexemes. Lexemes belong to lexical categories such as N, V,
and A and the derived lexemes may belong to a diVerent category than their
bases. The examples in (1) from Dutch illustrate the possible categorial
shifts, and also cases in which the lexical category does not change (Booij
2002a: 87). Words are divided into two kinds of lexical classes: open and
closed classes. In most languages, nouns, adjectives, and verbs form open
classes. As illustrated in (1), these classes can be extended by means
of word-formation. Function words such as determiners, conjunctions,
pronouns, and adpositions (pre- and postpositions) form closed sets
of words that cannot be extended by regular word-formation patterns.
The base words that form inputs to word-formation are normally also
words of these open classes, but there are exceptions. For instance, the
Dutch diminutive suYx -je can be attached to the demonstratives dit ‘‘this’’
and dat ‘‘that’’, as in dit-je-s en dat-je-s ‘‘odds and ends’’, and to phrases
such as the PP onder ons ‘‘between us’’, with the corresponding diminutive
onderons-je ‘‘private chat’’. This extension of the input domain to function
words and phrases is typical for highly productive word-formation
processes.
3.1 Lexeme formation 51
3.2 Templates and idiosyncrasies 61
3.3 Constraints on derivation 64
3.4 Productivity 67
3.5 AYx ordering 71
Summary 72
Questions 73
Further reading 74
(1) Derivation of nouns
A ! N suYxation schoon ‘‘beautiful’’ schoon-heid ‘‘beauty’’
V ! N suYxation spreek ‘‘to speak’’ sprek-er ‘‘speaker’’
preWxation praat ‘‘to talk’’ ge-praat ‘‘talking’’
N ! N suYxation moeder ‘‘mother’’ moeder-schap ‘‘motherhood’’
preWxation zin ‘‘sense’’ on-zin ‘‘nonsense’’
Derivation of adjectives
N ! A suYxation meester ‘‘master’’ meester-lijk ‘‘masterly’’
V ! A suYxation lees ‘‘to read’’ lees-baar ‘‘readable’’
A ! A suYxation blauw ‘‘blue’’ blauw-ig ‘‘blueish’’
preWxation gewoon ‘‘common’’ on-gewoon ‘‘uncommon’’
Derivation of verbs
N ! V suYxation analyse ‘‘analysis’’ analys-eer ‘‘to analyse’’
preWxation slaaf ‘‘slave’’ ver-slaaf ‘‘to enslave’’
A ! V suYxation kalm ‘‘calm’’ kalm-eer ‘‘to calm down’’
preWxation bleek ‘‘pale’’ ver-bleek ‘‘to turn pale’’
V ! V suYxation krab ‘‘to scratch’’ krabb-el ‘‘to scratch lightly’’
preWxation rijd ‘‘to ride’’ be-rijd ‘‘to ride on’’
Many languages have a fourth open lexical class, that of adverbs. This class
can also be extended in regular ways. In English, adverbs can be derived from
adjectives by means of the suYx -ly, and in French by means of suYxation
with -ment, as in lente-ment ‘‘slowly’’. Nouns are the bases of adverbs such as
English group-wise, and Afrikaans regerings-weeë ‘‘by the government’’
derived from regering ‘‘government’’. Adverbs are special in that they tend
not to feed other word-formation processes, unlike words of the three other
open categories. InXection of adverbs is also rare, but the comparative form
of an English adverb such as sooner suggests that inXection is not completely
excluded (note that soon functions as an adverb only, not as an adjective).
The description of each process of derivation consists of a speciWcation of the
properties of the input words, and those of the output words. The Wrst set of
examples in (1) consists of cases of nominalization (the derivation of nouns from
words of other word classes). Such derivation processes usually impose con-
straints on the lexical category of their input words, for instance that they have
to be adjectives. Besides nominalization, we distinguish verbalization, adjecti-
valization, and adverbialization as types of category-determining processes.
52 word-formation
All derivational suYxes in (1) appear to determine the lexical category
of the complex words that they form, and hence, they are category-
determining. This generalization holds for all Germanic languages. For
instance, it is the diminutive suYx -(t)je of Dutch that determines the lexical
category of diminutives, which are always nouns. This suYx does not only
attach to nouns, but also to adjectives and verbs. In the latter cases the
derived words are also nouns: blond ‘‘blond’’ (A)—blondje ‘‘blond girl’’
(N), speel ‘‘to play’’ (V)—speeltje ‘‘toy’’ (N).
A suYx may be category-determining even if it does not change the
lexical category of its input words. When Dutch diminutive nouns are
derived from nouns, they do not change the category. Yet, we can see
that they are category-determining because they always have neuter gender
even if the input noun is non-neuter, as illustrated by the word pair
zaal ‘‘room, non-neuter’’—zaaltje ‘‘small room, neuter’’. That is, the
diminutive suYx determines the lexical subclass of its derived words.
This category-determining role of suYxes has led some linguists to
extend the notion head, an important notion in syntax, to the domain of
morphology. In syntax, phrases consist of minimally a head, and it is the
syntactic category of the head that determines the category of the phrase.
A phrase with an adjectival head is an Adjective Phrase (AP), a phrase with
a noun as head is a Noun Phrase (NP), etc. For instance, very good is an AP
with the adjective good as its head, and hard work is an NP with the noun
work as its head. By analogy, we may say that the Dutch diminutive suYx is
the head of the diminutive noun since it determines the syntactic category
of this type of complex word. This morphological use of the notion ‘head’
has been advocated in particular in the morpheme-based approach
to morphology. In that framework, aYxes get their own lexical entry in
the lexicon, in which their class-determining properties are speciWed.
The morphological structure of the Dutch diminutive noun blondje might
then be represented as in Figure 3.1. The lexical category N and the gender
Fig. 3.1 Percolation of head features
derivation 53
feature [+neuter] are taken to be properties of the suYx -je, and percolated
to the dominating node, thus classifying this word as a neuter noun. The
percolation procedure will percolate the properties of the head to the dom-
inating node of the whole word (Lieber 1980, 1989). Additional evidence for
the headship of the Dutch diminutive suYx is that it governs the selection of
the correct plural suYx. Whereas simplex nouns ending in [e] take either -s
or -n as their plural suYx, the diminutive nouns in -je [e] always select -s.
Williams (1981: 248) proposed the following rule for the identiWcation of
the head constituent of complex words:
(2) Right-hand Head Rule (RHR): In morphology, we deWne the head of a
morphologically complex word to be the right-hand member of that word.
This rule will identify suYxes as heads, and hence, they will determine the
lexical (sub)category of the words they create. The rule is supposed to be
applicable to both derived words and compounds. In English compounds it
is indeed the lexical category of the right constituent that determines the
lexical (sub)category of the compound: a bottle factory is a kind of factory,
not a kind of bottle. Similarly, English derivational suYxes are category-
determining. However, the Right-hand Head Rule cannot be a universal
rule because there are languages with left-headed complex words, as
illustrated in section 4.1.
You should realize that the notion ‘head’ as used here is diVerent from its
standard use in syntax. In syntax, a head is not identiWed by its linear
position in the phrase, but by the hierarchical conWguration in which it
occurs. Moreover, the RHR is at best a language-speciWc principle since
there are also languages with category-determining preWxes or category-
neutral suYxes. In the list (1) given above we see examples of both
category-neutral preWxes (the negative preWx on- that derives adjectives
from adjectives, and nouns from nouns), and of category-determining pre-
Wxes such as ver-that derives verbs from adjectives. The latter preWx thus
forms a problem for assuming the RHR to be generally applicable to Dutch.
There are many other languages with category-determining preWxation.
The generalization expressed by the RHR has a historical explanation.
In languages with right-headed phrases, the univerbation of such phrases
has led to the emergence of right-headed compounds. Subsequently, some
right constituents of compounds have developed into suYxes. The English
suYx -dom (as in kingdom) with the meaning ‘‘domain’’ derives from the
Old English word dom ‘‘fate, destiny’’, and the Dutch suYx -loos ‘‘-less’’
54 word-formation
(as in hulpe-loos ‘‘helpless’’) derives from the adjective loos ‘‘being with-
out’’, words that once occurred in the head position of compounds. Thus,
such suYxes could start functioning as morphological heads. On the other
hand, preWxes often derive from words functioning as left, non-head con-
stituents of compounds or from preverbal adverbs. The English preWx over-
(as in to overdo) derives historically from the word over and the Latin preWx
ab- (as in abducere ‘‘to take away’’) from the preposition ab. Due to their
origin from words in a (morphological or syntactic) non-head position,
such preWxes do not function as heads either (Hall 1991).
The category-neutral evaluative suYxes of Italian and other Romance
languages also pose a problem for the universal applicability of the RHR
(Scalise 1988). The Italian diminutive suYx -ino, for example, derives
nouns from nouns, but adjectives from adjectives, and adverbs from
adverbs. Hence it is category-neutral as illustrated by the following
examples: tavolo ‘‘table’’—tavolino ‘‘small table’’, giallo ‘‘yellow’’—giallino
‘‘yellowish’’, bene ‘‘well’’—benino ‘‘reasonably well’’. That is, these suYxes
do not function as heads.
In lexeme-based morphology, the category-determining nature of a
particular aYx can be expressed in the template for that aYx. The Dutch
diminutive suYx will thus occur in the following template:
(3) [[x]Y tje]N ‘‘small entity with Y-related property’’ where Y ¼ N, A, V
The variable Y used here stands for the lexical categories, N, A, and V.
Words from these categories may serve as base words (and a few other
words and phrases as well). The output category is always N. The Dutch
category-neutral preWx on- ‘‘un-’’ will be speciWed as follows:
(4) [on[x]Y]Y ‘not-Y’, where Y ¼ N, A
This template expresses that on- is a preWx, not a lexeme since the preWx
does not carry a category label of its own. It speciWes that the preWx on-
takes nouns and adjectives as base words, and that it is category-neutral
since the variable Y recurs as category of the whole word.
Morphological rules do not necessarily apply to existing lexemes: pos-
sible words may also function as inputs. Dutch negative adjectives preWxed
with on- ‘‘un-’’ often have a possible, but non-existing deverbal adjective
ending in -baar ‘‘-able’’ as base word. Similar observations can be made for
English adjectives in -ible and -able: undefatigable is an existing word,
unlike its base word defatigable.
derivation 55
(5) aanraakbaar ‘‘touchable’’ onaanraakbaar ‘‘untouchable’’
uitstaanbaar ‘‘tolerable’’ onuitstaanbaar ‘‘intolerable’’
verwoestbaar ‘‘destroyable’’ onverwoestbaar ‘‘undestroyable’’
corrigible incorrigible
delible indelible
defatigable indefatigable
The positive adjectives in -baar, -ible, and -able in the left column of (5) do
not occur by themselves. However, intuitions about existence versus non-
existence of a particular positive adjective may vary from speaker to
speaker, and sometimes the positive adjective crops up in usage. The crucial
point is that existence is not a necessary condition for these adjectives to be
used as base words. In the case of Dutch, we cannot assume, as a way out
for this problem, that the preWx on- has been attached before the suYx
-baar, because the preWx on- does not attach to verbs. It is the adjectival
suYx -baar that makes the attachment of this preWx possible.
We might interpret these facts, the co-occurrence of two word-formation
processes, as showing that the use of one morphological operation may imply
the use of a second one. A formal representation of this co-occurrence is
the assumption of a conXated morphological template [on[V-baar]A]A, a
conXation of the template [on-A]A and the template [V-baar]A. This simul-
taneous attachment of a preWx and a suYx is called parasynthetic word-
formation. The formation of Italian verbs from adjectives by adding both a
preWx and a thematic vowel to an adjectival stem might be seen as another
instance of this kind of word-formation (Scalise 1984: 146):
(6) brutt-o ‘‘ugly’’ im-brutt-i-re ‘‘to make ugly’’
rozz-o ‘‘crude’’ di-rozz-a-re ‘‘to make less crude’’
vecchi-o ‘‘old’’ in-vecchi-a-re ‘‘to age’’
Note that this kind of word-formation is diVerent from circumWxation. In
the latter case we have to do with one, discontinuous aYx, whereas in the
examples in (6) two independently occuring aYxes are used simultaneously.
Rules or templates for derivational patterns describe both the formal
(phonological and syntactic) properties and the semantic properties of the
class of output words. The semantic interpretation of a complex word is
determined by the template, and includes the meaning of the base word.
Hence, the meaning of a complex word is in principle a compositional
function of the meaning of its base word and its morphological structure,
as illustrated by the templates (3) and (4).
56 word-formation
The meaning contribution of the aYx, or more generally, the deriv-
ational process, might actually be pretty vague. English (and many other
languages) make use of a number of suYxes to derive relational adjectives
from nouns:
(7) Noun NP with relational adjective
atom atomic bomb
music musical performance
ocean oceanic winds
parent parental refusal
president presidential speech
The suYxes -ic, -al and -ial are used to form denominal adjectives that serve to
express that there is some relation between the base noun of the adjective and
the head noun of the phrase. The precise nature of that relationship is not
speciWed, and needs further interpretation by the language user. In the case of
parental refusal, the parents are engaged in refusing, in musical performance it
is the music that is being performed. The same semantic vagueness in
the relation between base word and derived word can be observed when
we compare the diVerences in meaning between the following denominal
verbs ending in -ize: hospitalize ‘‘to put someone in hospital’’, burglarize
‘‘to do the work of a burglar’’, vaporize ‘‘to turn something to vapour’’.
Conversion can be subsumed under derivation, although there is no
phonological change involved, because it serves to coin new lexemes on
the basis of existing ones. The examples in (8) illustrate the conversion of
nouns to verbs.
(8) Noun Verb
English bed bed ‘‘to go to bed’’
bottle bottle ‘‘to put into a bottle’’
bomb bomb ‘‘to throw bombs on’’
Dutch kaas ‘‘cheese’’ kaas ‘‘to produce cheese’’
melk ‘‘milk’’ melk ‘‘to extract milk from’’
stof ‘‘dust’’ stof ‘‘to remove dust from’’
Other input categories involved in conversion in English are adjectives and
verbs:
(9) A > V: calm > to calm, clean > to clean, wet > to wet
V > N: to cheat > (a) cheat, to take > (a) take, to approach > (an) approach
derivation 57
How can we be certain about the direction of the conversion given the fact
there are no phonological indications for this direction? Arguments
for determining the direction are often (but not always) provided by the
semantics of the conversion pair. In the examples in (8), the meaning of the
verb is a compositional function of that of the noun, and that is why
we interpret the relation in terms of verbs being derived from nouns.
The phonological make-up of words may also form an indication. Dutch
simplex verbs consist of either one syllable, or two syllables, the second of
which contains a schwa. Yet, we Wnd verbs such as papegaai ‘‘to imitate’’
and domino ‘‘to play dominoes’’ that do not exhibit this phonological make-
up since they consist of three syllables. This can be explained by these verbs
being conversions of the nouns papegaai ‘‘parrot’’ and domino ‘‘dominoes’’
respectively, which accounts for their marked phonological structure.
The template for the conversion cases in (8) will be as follows:
(10) [[X]N]V ‘‘to perform an action in which [X]N plays a role’’
Again, the semantic description is vague; the precise role of the N, and
hence the nature of the action expressed, is not deWned exactly. These are
determined by non-grammatical knowledge. Thus, the actual meaning of
the conversion verbs may be quite varied, which increases the semantic
Xexibility, and hence the usability of this pattern of lexeme formation.
The interpretation of conversion as a case of lexeme formation is sup-
ported by the observation that languages may diVer in that one language
uses an aYx to coin a verb from a noun, whereas another language creates
the corresponding lexeme by means of conversion. For instance, the Dutch
de-adjectival conversion verb wit ‘‘to make white’’ corresponds to English
whiten, coined by addition of the suYx -en to the adjectival stem white. Even
within a single language one may Wnd both types exempliWed; compare the
English verbs to wet and to dampen to their adjectival bases wet and damp.
The coinage of middle verbs is another instantiation of lexeme formation
without overt phonological eVect. Middle verbs express a generic property
and hence are stative verbs, whereas their source verbs indicate an action.
This process is used in Dutch and English, whereas Russian requires a suYx
-sja to perform the same semantic operation (Spencer and Zaretskaya 1998):
(11) Dutch Vurenhout zaagt gemakkelijk
Pine saws easily
‘‘Pine saws easily’’
58 word-formation
Russian Sosna legko pilit-sja
Pine easily saw-SJA
‘‘Pine saws easily’’
Middle verbs often require the presence of an adverbial expression such as
easily: a sentence like Pine saws, without an adverbial expression, is odd.
This can be explained by the Non-Redundancy Constraint (Ackerman
and Goldberg 1996: 21; Goldberg and Ackerman 2001) that forbids
morphological operations expressing redundant information. Since you
know that pine is a kind of wood that can be sawn, it does not make
sense to state this, unless you add a modiWcation with some informational
content to that statement, in this example the adverb easily. For the
same reason, an adjective such as eyed does not make much sense as a
speciWcation of the properties of human beings since they normally have
eyes, whereas the adjective blue-eyed expresses a non-redundant piece of
information about human beings. This illustrates that there is a diVerence
between the well-formedness of a complex word, and its semantic or
pragmatic appropriateness.
The interpretational versatility that we observed for relational adjectives
can also be found in the case of reduplication. Reduplication is often
(but not always!) a case of iconicity in language. This means that the formal
structure is iconic for the meaning expressed. This applies particularly
to full reduplication in which the form is doubled; the corresponding
meaning also appears to be doubled in the sense that it may express
repetition, intensity, plurality, distributivity, etc. Afrikaans has borrowed
reduplication, an unusual word-formation process in Germanic languages,
from Malay, and this process is used frequently (Botha 1988: 1–2):
(12) Die kinders drink bottels-bottels limonade
the children drink bottles-bottles lemonade
‘‘The children drink bottles and bottles of lemonade’’
Die leeu loop brul-brul weg
the lion walk roar-roar away
‘‘Roaring repeatedly, the lion walks away’’
Hy dra tien-tien boek die trap op
he carry ten-ten books the stairs up
‘‘He carries the books up the stairs ten at a time’’
Derivation is not only used in a category-changing fashion, but also to
create other semantic subcategories of the same lexical category. Italian has
derivation 59
a lot of category-neutral evaluative suYxes that serve to create nouns with
an evaluative meaning component, as illustrated by the following examples
(Scalise 1988: 233):
(13) albero ‘‘tree’’ alber-ino ‘‘little tree’’
giardino ‘‘garden’’ giardin-etto ‘‘nice little garden’’
libro ‘‘book’’ libr-one ‘‘big book’’
ragazzo ‘‘boy’’ ragazz-accio ‘‘bad boy’’
In the domain of adjectives we Wnd many aYxes that can be attached to
adjectives without changing their syntactic category, in order to modify
their meaning: weakening (English -ish as in reddish, oldish), negation or
reversal (English dis-, in-, un-, non-), or intensiWcation of the meaning of the
adjectival base, as in the following examples from Dutch:
(14) bang ‘‘afraid’’ doods-bang ‘‘lit. death-afraid, very frightened’’
mooi ‘‘beautiful’’ bloed-mooi ‘‘lit. blood-beautiful, very beautiful’’
sterk ‘‘strong’’ bere-sterk ‘‘lit. bear-strong, very strong’’
triest ‘‘sad’’ in-triest ‘‘lit, in-sad, very sad’’
Formation of the middle verbs mentioned above illustrates that deriv-
ational processes are used to create speciWc subclasses of verbs. Middle
verbs in English are intransitive verbs, whereas their base verbs are transi-
tive, that is, require a direct object to be present. Middle verb formation is
therefore a case of change in syntactic valency. With the latter term we refer
to the syntactic combinatorial properties of words. Whereas intransitive
verbs only require the presence of a subject, transitive verbs require the
presence of a second noun phrase that functions as direct object. In many
languages, causative verbs are created from base verbs that mention an
event or action. The causative verbs have a subject that mentions the causer
of the event or action. Here are two examples from Bolivian Quechua, in
which the causative suYx -chi is attached to the verbs llank’a ‘‘to work’’
and awa ‘‘to knit’’, and thus induces a change in valency of these verbs. The
derived causative verbs take a subject that mentions the causer, in addition
to the NPs required by the base verb. For instance, in sentence (15a) the
presence of the NP churi ‘‘my son’’ is required by the base verb llank’
‘‘work’’ (van de Kerke 1996: 195–6):
(15) a. churi-y-ta llank’a-chi-saq
son-1sg-acc work-caus-1sg.fut
‘‘I will make my son work’’
60 word-formation
b. warmi-wawa-y-wan chompa-ta awa-chi-saq
woman-child-1sg-com sweater-acc knit-caus-1sg.fut
‘‘I will make my daughter knit a sweater’’
The Semitic languages are well known for their system of creating related
verbal lexemes by combining a consonantal root with a speciWc pattern of
C and V positions, and a vowel melody. In addition, preWxes may be used.
Such a set of verbal lexemes with the same morphological pattern is called a
binyan (‘‘building’’, plural binyanim). The root qtl ‘‘to kill’’ as used in biblical
Hebrew has the Wve active binyan forms shown in (16) (AronoV 1994: 124). In
addition to these Wve binyanim, there are two binyanim with a passive mean-
ing, the Pu’al as a passive variant of the Pi’el, and the Hof’al as the passive of
the Hif’il. Each of these seven binyanim has a paradigm of inXectional forms,
partofwhich,the3sg.masc.perfparadigm,isillustratedin(16). Astheglosses
indicate, the binyan system mainly serves to create related verbs with diVer-
ences in syntactic valency. However, the semantics of the diVerent binyanim is
more complicated and less transparent than this example suggests.
(16) Binyan name 3sg.masc.perf Gloss
Qal qâtal to kill
Nif’al ni-qtal to kill oneself
Pi’el qittel to massacre
Hif’il hi-qtil to cause to kill
Hitpa’el hit-qattel to kill oneself
3.2 Templates and idiosyncrasies
As discussed in section 1.4, complex words are listed in the lexicon for two
reasons. In the case of a fully regular complex word, it may be necessary to
list it because it is the conventional way of expressing a particular meaning.
For instance, the Dutch action noun for the verb concretiseer ‘‘to make
concrete’’ is concretiser-ing; the alternative noun concretis-atie is also
well-formed, but not the word that Dutch speakers in the Netherlands
use. Thus, established complex words may have a blocking eVect on the
coinage of new complex words. The second reason why we need to list
complex words is that they may have properties that are not predictable by
rule. Thus, morphological rules or templates have two functions: stating
the predictable properties of established complex words, and indicating
how new complex words can be formed.
derivation 61
This raises the issue of how to formally express the relation between the
regularities as stated in a rule or template, and the listed properties of
individual complex words. Consider the following German deverbal adjec-
tives in -bar ‘‘-able’’, and their idiosyncratic properties (Riehemann 1998: 54):
(17) additional aspect of meaning:
essen ‘‘eat’’ essbar ‘‘safely edible’’
obligation instead of possibility:
zahlen ‘‘pay’’ zahlbar ‘‘payable, must be payed’’
lexicalized meaning:
halten ‘‘hold, keep’’ haltbar ‘‘non-perishable’’
Fully regular adjectives in -bar are derived from transitive verbs, and their
meaning is predictable. This meaning can be circumscribed as ‘‘can be
V- ed’’. The three adjectives in (17) are derived from transitive verbs as
well, but they have an additional meaning or slighly diVerent meaning. For
instance, essbar does not just mean ‘‘can be eaten’’, but ‘‘can be eaten
safely’’. The meaning component ‘‘safely’’ is the additional unpredictable
meaning component. The adjective zahlbar does not mean that something
can be paid, but that it has to be paid. The meaning ‘‘non-perishable’’ of
the adjective haltbar is more speciWc than just ‘‘can be kept’’.
The relation between the properties that hold for all deverbal adjectives
ending in -bar, and the properties of the individual adjectives can be expressed
by an inheritance tree. In such a tree, each node inherits all the properties of
the dominating nodes, and may have additional unique properties, which are
then also speciWed on that node. The following (simpliWed) inheritance tree
may be constructed for these German -bar adjectives (Figure 3.2). The unpre-
dictable properties of the three adjectives discussed are printed in italics. All
other properties of these three adjectives are predictable, and are inherited
from the dominating nodes of the base verbs and the dominating node with
Fig. 3.2 Inheritance tree for -bar adjectives
62 word-formation
the template for regular -bar adjectives. That is, these properties count as
redundant information. The predictable properties are partially inherited
from their base verbs, and partially from the word-formation template for
adjectives ending in -bar. The inheritance tree shown here is a multiple
inheritance tree since the lower nodes for the individual words are connected
to two diVerent layers of dominating nodes, the nodes of the base verbs, and
the node of the morphological template of -bar adjectives.
This kind of modelling of the lexicon enables us to specify which complex
words exist, and which of their properties have been generalized into
patterns, expressed as morphological templates. A morphological template
thus coexists with the individual complex words formed according to that
template. The templates will also be used to create new complex words of
that type which in their turn will be added to the lexicon. This model
reXects the way in which language users acquire the morphological system
of a language. First, individual complex words are learnt, and subse-
quently, more abstract patterns can be discovered on the basis of form-
meaning correspondences between sets of words.
Instead of providing each individual adjective with a speciWcation of all
its properties, one might also restrict this speciWcation to the unpredictable
properties that are not inherited from the dominating nodes. In that case,
the inheritance tree is redundancy-free. For instance, the speciWcation of
the regular English adjective doable will then consist of a node without any
speciWcation, linked to the nodes for to do and the relevant word-formation
template (Figure 3.3). In this case, the empty node at the bottom only
speciWes that the adjective doable is an existing adjective of English. All
other properties can be derived from the dominating nodes.
From a psychological point of view the full speciWcation approach is
more plausible since human memory is so vast that a massive amount of
redundant information is memorized, even though that information is
predictable. It is important to bear in mind that the existence of a particular
rule in a language does not imply that the outputs of such a rule cannot be
stored individually in the lexicon of that language. Note, Wnally, that this
Fig. 3.3 Non-redundant speciWcation of doable
derivation 63
point about the relation between rules and lists does not only pertain
to derivation, but also to compounding and inXection.
3.3 Constraints on derivation
Derivational processes impose constraints on the kind of base words they
take as their inputs. Examples of such input constraints are syntactic class
requirements, as illustrated above. Some derivational processes require
a more speciWc syntactic subclass. The Dutch suYx -baar ‘‘-able’’ can
only be used for deriving new adjectives from verbs that are transitive, as
in drink-baar ‘‘drinkable’’ derived from the transitive verb drink ‘‘to drink’’.
Does an aYx always require one speciWc syntactic category for its input
words? As we saw above, this is not the case for the Dutch negative preWx
on- that can be attached to adjectives and nouns. The Italian evaluative
suYxes mentioned in section 3.1 can be added to nouns, adjectives, and
adverbs. Even category-determining suYxes sometimes attach to words of
more than one category. The Dutch diminutive suYx attaches mostly to
nouns, but other categories are not excluded (section 3.1). The English
nominalizing suYx -er combines with both verbs and nouns (work-er,
London-er).
Input constraints may also be phonological in nature. The Dutch nom-
inalizing suYx -aar can only be attached to stems ending in a coronal
sonorant consonant preceded by a schwa. In other cases, the suYx -er
has to be used:
(18) luist[e]r ‘‘to listen’’ luister-aar ‘‘listener’’
duik[e]l ‘‘to tumble’’ duikel-aar ‘‘tumbler’’
bez[e]m ‘‘to sweep’’ bezem-er ‘‘sweeper’’
veeg ‘‘to sweep’’ veg-er ‘‘sweeper’’
The German diminutive suYx -lein is not attached to nouns ending in
/l/; instead, the synonymous suYx -chen is used. In Dutch, the suYx -ig
/eg/ ‘‘-ish’’ is not added to words ending in /g/; instead, the synonymous
suYx -achtig is used. For instance, the denominal adjective *berg-ig
‘‘mountainous’’ is ill-formed, whereas berg-achtig is Wne. These German
and Dutch examples illustrate the cross-linguistic tendency to avoid
sequences with (almost) adjacent identical sounds in the phonetic forms
of complex words.
64 word-formation
The English verbalizing suYx -en that is attached to adjectives must be
preceded by exactly one stem-Wnal obstruent. This excludes a verb
*greenen, but allows for blacken, whiten, harden, fasten, and soften. In
the latter two examples, the /t/ is deleted in order to comply with this
phonological constraint. The constraint is an output constraint, because
the input soft ends in two obstruents, instead of one. Yet, it does not mean
that soft cannot be an input word; instead, its phonetic form is adjusted.
Thus, this verb is pronounced as [sOfen].
In sum, the possibility of using an aYx and the choice of a particular aYx
may be determined by considerations concerning the optimal phonetic
shape of the complex word that is being created. That is, output constraints
on the phonetic form of a complex word can govern the choice or usability
of a particular aYx, as these examples from German, Dutch, and English
illustrate.
Prosodic restrictions may also play a role in restricting productivity.
The term prosody refers to properties of words and sentences, such as
stress, tone, intonation, and the organization of sounds in larger units
such as syllables. These properties are not linked to speciWc segments,
and hence they are called suprasegmental properties.
An example of a prosodic constraint is the following. It has been obser-
ved for Dutch that a word almost never begins with two unstressed
preWxes. A stressed preWx, however, can easily be attached before an
unstressed one. Nominalization of preWxed verbs by means of the stressless
preWx ge- /ge/ tends to be avoided, whereas the addition of the stressed
category-neutral preWx her- /hEr/ ‘‘re-’’ is without problems:
(19) ?ge-ont-dek ‘‘discovery’’, ?ge-ont-bos ‘‘deforestation’’, ?ge-be-loof
‘‘promising’’
hér-ont-dek ‘‘to rediscover’’, hér-be-gin ‘‘to re-begin’’, hér-ge-bruik
‘‘to re-use’’
This diVerence in behaviour between the two preWxes has to do with the
tendency of Dutch to avoid sequences of unstressed syllables, in particular
at the beginning of a word. Therefore, the preWx ge- cannot be used before
another unstressed preWx.
Derivational processes may also be subject to stratal constraints. A
stratum is a layer of the lexicon of a particular historical origin. Germanic
languages have borrowed many words from Greek and Latin, often with
French as an intermediary language, words that form the non-native
derivation 65
stratum of the vocabulary. Since language users are able to discover aYxes
on the basis of recurrent form–meaning patterns in sets of borrowed words,
these languages acquired a set of non-native aYxes. These aYxes have not
been borrowed directly. It is words that are borrowed, and sets of borrowed
non-native words may give rise to non-native suYxes. Thus, the non-native
suYx -ity emerged in English, like its etymological cognates -iteit and -ität
in Dutch and German respectively. This suYx can now be used for coining
new de-adjectival nouns, for which there is no counterpart in Latin or French.
However, the use of such non-native aYxes (that is, neo-classical word-
formation) is mostly restricted to base words of the non-native stratum. The
Dutch suYx -iteit ‘‘-ity’’ can be attached to non-native adjectives, but not
to native ones. For native adjectives, the synonymous native suYx -heid
‘‘-ness’’ (of Germanic origin) has to be used. These native aYxes combine in
principle both with native and non-native stems. So the following asymmetry
can be observed:
(20) Non-native adjectives Derived nouns
absurd ‘‘absurd’’ absurd-iteit/absurd-heid ‘‘absurdity’’
stabiel ‘‘stable’’ stabil-iteit/stabiel-heid ‘‘stability’’
native adjectives
groen ‘‘green’’ *groen-iteit/groen-heid ‘‘green-ness’’
zeker ‘‘certain’’ *zeker-iteit/zeker-heid ‘‘certainty’’
One may wonder how language users, most of whom have no knowledge
of the historical origin of the words of their mother tongue, are able to
comply with such constraints. A feature such as [-native] cannot be seen
as an etymological feature, but only as a non-historical property of words.
A possible answer to this question is that non-native words tend to diVer
systematically from native ones in terms of their phonological make-up,
and thus they are recognizable. Dutch non-native adjectives, for instance,
are always polysyllabic and end in a stressed syllable (absúrd ‘‘absurd’’,
stabı́el ‘‘stable’’). This makes them diVerent from native adjectives that
are either monosyllabic (groen ‘‘green’’) or end in an unstressed syllable
(zeker ‘‘certain’’).
The choice of a particular aYx may also be determined by the morpho-
logical make-up of the base. For instance, when we want to nominalize an
English verb ending in -ize, the obvious choice is the suYx -ation, and not
some other suYx such as -ion (verbalization, not *verbaliz-ion). Adjectives
in -able prefer the suYx -ity to -ness, hence parsability, not parsableness.
66 word-formation
These are base-driven restrictions since it is the base that imposes
constraints on the suYx to be attached.
Such base-driven restrictions show that the internal morphological
structure of a complex word is accessible to morphological rules, whereas
the internal structure of complex words is not accessible for rules of syntax
(the Lexical Integrity Principle). Generally, the application of morpho-
logical rules may be sensitive to morphological structure. For example,
conversion of nouns to verbs in English and Dutch applies to simplex
nouns and compounds, but not to suYxed nouns.
An example of a semantic constraint is that the English suYx un- when
applied to verbs, indicates the reversal of a situation, as in unfold and
unscrew. Because of this meaning of un-, you cannot unswim or unkill.
Or, as the teacher warned my neighbour when he was taught how to
make proper holes in a Xute, ‘‘You can’t undrill a hole’’. This constraint
should not be interpreted as a constraint on a speciWc word-formation
process. The impossibility of unkill and similar verbs follows from the
incompatibility between the meaning of the deverbal suYx un- and that
of the base verb. In fact, there are possible worlds in which kill is not an
irreversible action, and where unkill could be used. That is, un- imposes
an interpretation of reversibility on the verb. This kind of semantic eVect is
called type coercion: the preWx forces the base verb to belong to a particular
semantic type of verbs, and thus imposes a particular interpretation on the
preWxed verb as a whole.
Derivational processes may also be subject to particular pragmatic,
stylistic, or sociolinguistic constraints. The use of the diminutive suYx -ie
in Dutch, as in the phrase lekker soepie ‘‘nice soup’’ and in liev-ie ‘‘love,
darling’’ is characteristic of an informal register, or is used between lovers
or in mother–child conversation. A more appropriate interpretation of
these pragmatic limitations on certain derivational patterns is to consider
them as linguistic means of deWning the communicative situation.
3.4 Productivity
The notion productivity is used quite frequently in morphological descrip-
tions of languages. It presupposes the idea of rule-governed morphological
creativity, the ability of language users to create new well-formed complex
words. Although this chapter deals with derivation, you should realize that
derivation 67
the notion ‘productivity’ is also relevant in the domains of compounding
and inXection. When we call a morphological pattern productive, we mean
that this pattern can be extended to new cases, can be used to form new
words. When we say that a morphological pattern is unproductive, this
means that it is not used for coining new words. The formation of plural
nouns by means of vowel change, as in English foot–feet has become
obsolete, and is an example of unproductive morphology. The same applies
to the use of vowel alternations for past tense verb formation in the
Germanic languages. You have to learn which verbs exhibit which particu-
lar vowel alternation, and the pattern is almost never used for making the
past tense of new verbs.
Within the class of productive morphological templates, we Wnd diVer-
ences in degree of productivity. Morphological patterns are not used to the
same degree. The basic opposition presupposed in using the notion ‘degree
of productivity’ is that between possible words and actual words. Leaving
inXection aside for a moment, one might say that the word-formation
templates of a language deWne the set of possible complex words of that
language. Not all these possible words are also actual words, that is, belong
to the lexical norm or convention of that language. For instance, my English
dictionaries do not mention the verb unblacken although it is a possible
word with a transparent meaning, ‘‘undoing the eVect of blackening’’.
The degree of productivity of a word-formation pattern thus refers to the
degree to which the structural possibilities of a word-formation pattern are
actually used. This can be illustrated as follows. Both in German and in
Dutch female nouns can be coined by means of suYxation, in German by
means of suYxation with -in:
(21) Dozent ‘‘teacher’’ Dozent-in ‘‘female teacher’’
Minister ‘‘minister’’ Minister-in ‘‘female minister’’
Professor ‘‘professor’’ Professor-in ‘‘female professor’’
Student ‘‘student’’ Student-in ‘‘female student’’
Dutch has the same female suYx -in, and some other female suYxes as well.
Yet, it does not have equivalent words for these German female nouns.
A German speaker may begin his speech with the phrase Liebe Hörerinnen
und Hörer ‘‘dear female listeners and listeners’’ whereas Dutch speakers
will never say the equivalent, well-formed expression Geachte toehoorsters
en toehoorders. This shows that German requires more awareness of there
being a sex diVerence between the people addressed than Dutch that does
68 word-formation
not exploit this word-formation possibility very much. So you see it makes
sense to say that certain morphological processes are more productive than
others. The actual use of structural possibilities may have to do with
language-external factors such as cultural habits and politeness rules.
In addition, there are language-internal factors such as the existence of
competing word-formation processes.
Morphological processes can lose their productivity in the course of
time. The Dutch suYx -lijk ‘‘-able’’ used to be productive in earlier stages
of Dutch, but has now become completely unproductive, and its role has
been taken over by the synonymous suYx -baar. So the set of Dutch
adjectives ending in -lijk has become a closed set of words that cannot be
extended any more.
How can we measure the degree of productivity of a morphological
pattern, and how can we rank the diVerent patterns on a scale of product-
ivity? We might count the number of diVerent words (word types) of a
certain morphological type, i.e. its type frequency, to be distinguished from
the notion token frequency. The token frequency of a morphological class of
words is the summed frequency of use of all the words of that particular type
in a sample of language use. For example, if there are 100 diVerent English
adjectives in -able in a certain language sample, the type frequency of -able
adjectives is 100, but the token frequency will be much higher because
the individual adjectives in -able will have been used more than once.
Type frequency is best calculated on the basis of a large corpus instead of a
dictionary. A corpus is a collection of data concerning actual language use,
these days mainly in electronic form. A corpus is a better source of informa-
tion than a dictionary. A dictionary is always lagging behind with respect to
the use of productive morphological patterns because it only registers, after
some lapse of time, which new complex words have become established
words. Morphological productivity manifests itself most clearly in the
appearance of complex words that never make it to the dictionary. However,
a high type frequency of a morphological pattern, even when based on a
proper corpus, does not tell us that much about degree of productivity: the
class of words of that type may be a more or less closed set that is (almost)
never expanded. Therefore, we need another way of computing productivity.
A basic property of a productive word-formation process is that it may
lead to hapaxes, new word types that occur only once in the corpus, and
clearly do not belong to the set of established words. Therefore, one might
deWne the degree of productivity P of a particular morphological process as
derivation 69
the proportion between the number of hapaxes of that type (n1) to the total
number of tokens N of complex words of that type in the sample (Baayen
1992: 115):
(22) P ¼ n1=N
The use of P as a measure of productivity is illustrated by the data in
Table 3.1. These data are from the English Cobuild Corpus, a corpus of
18 million word forms of British English. N stands for the number of word
tokens ending in these aYxes, and V for the number of types. The table shows
that the number of tokens in -ity is higher than that of the tokens in -ness.
However, the number of types with -ness is higher, and—what is more
important—the number of hapaxes as well. Hence, the suYx -ness is
more productive than -ity. This is in accordance with the observation that
the use of -ity is restricted to being attached to non-native stems, whereas
-ness can be used with all kinds of stems. Whereas both stability and stableness
are well-formed, we do not have a well-formed word reddity besides redness.
The data in this table concern two rival aYxes with the same meaning. Thus
it is possible to compare them because they have the same potential of being
useful for the language user, and to rank them on a scale of productivity.
However, it may be the case that an aYx has a relatively high proportion of
hapaxes in the set of token words with that aYx, without that aYx creating a
lot of new words, simply because that kind of complex word is not very useful,
has no high pragmatic potential. If we want to get a more precise idea of the
contribution of a particular type of complex word to the growth of the
lexicon, we might use another measure, referred to as the global productivity
measure P*, which is the number of hapaxes of that morphological type in a
given corpus divided by the total number of hapax words in that corpus.
This measure gives us a ranking for all aYxes on one scale, and indicates their
relative contribution to the growth of the lexicon. Thus, we have at least
three measures for quantifying three diVerent aspects of productivity: the
Table 3.1. Productivity measure for the English suYxes -ity and -ness
AYx N V n1 P
-ity 42,252 405 29 0.0007
-ness 17,481 497 77 0.0044
Source: Baayen 1992: 116.
70 word-formation
number of attested types (V), the potential to make new word types (P), and
the actual contribution to the growth of the lexicon (P*).
The existence of rival aYxes may also aVect the token frequency of the
corresponding types of complex word. Once a complex word with one of
these aYxes has been formed and established, the language user will tend
not to use a rival process for creating another complex word with the same
meaning. This is called the blocking eVect. However, if the rival processes
are very productive, blocking is not a very strong factor. As illustrated by
the examples (20), pairs of complex words with exactly the same meaning
are possible. In other cases, complex words with the same base exhibit
semantic diVerences. For instance, there is a semantic diVerence between
admission and admittance, both derived from the verb to admit. If there is
such a diVerence, it is obvious that there cannot be a blocking eVect.
3.5 Affix ordering
Complex words may contain more than one preWx or suYx, and we would
therefore like to know which principles govern the order of aYxes. Given
the distinction between derivation and inXection (derivation creates lex-
emes, inXection creates forms of lexemes), we expect the following schema
to apply, and this is indeed basically correct (although there are some
complications, see Chapter 5):
(23) InXectional preWxes—Derivational preWxes—Root—Derivational suYxes—
InXectional SuYxes
As to ordering restrictions within a sequence of derivational aYxes, it is
clear that the input constraints often predict which order is the correct one.
For instance, the suYx order in read-abil-ity is determined by the fact that
the suYx -ity selects adjectives as bases and creates nouns, whereas -able
takes verbs as inputs in order to form adjectives. Therefore, -able must be
attached before -ity.
Stratal restrictions account for the generalization that in Germanic lan-
guages native suYxes are peripheral with respect to non-native ones. As we
saw, it is only non-native suYxes that require their inputs to be of a speciWc
stratum, the non-native one. Native suYxes combine with both non-native
and native inputs. Once a native suYx has been added to a stem, the new word
is [+ native], which blocks the attachment of non-native suYxes. Therefore,
derivation 71
the only possible order is: non-native root + non-native suYxes + native
suYxes. For instance, the Dutch native suYx -baar ‘‘-able’’ can be attached to
verbal stems ending in the non-native suYx -iseer (as in stabiliseer-baar
‘‘stabilizable’’), but not vice versa: *drag-bar-iseer ‘‘port-ableize’’ is ill-formed
because the non-native suYx -iseer has been added to a native stem.
AYx order might also be determined by the intended semantic scope of
the aYxes used. Thus, derivational aYxes may appear in diVerent order,
with diVerent interpretational eVects, as illustrated here for Quechua which
allows for both the suYx sequence -schi-rpari- and the suYx sequence
-rpari-schi- (Muysken 1988: 267–8):
(24) a. llank’a-schi-rpari-n
work-help-eVect-3sg
‘‘He really helped him work’’
b. qunqa-rpari-schi-wa-n
forget-eVect-help-lobj-3sg
‘‘He helped me forget completely’’
The ordering of, in particular inXectional, aYxes is sometimes described in
terms of templates or position classes (Chapter 5).
Summary
Derivation is the formation of lexemes by means of aYxation, conversion,
reduplication, and root-and-pattern morphology. These diVerent morpho-
logical operations serve a large number of semantic and syntactic functions,
including that of valency change. Such derived words, once they are formed,
may exhibit idiosyncratic properties. Word-formation templates function
as redundancy statements with respect to established, listed complex
words, which can be modelled by inheritance trees.
The application of a particular word-formation process may be governed
byrule-speciWc and general input constraints with respect tosyntactic, phono-
logical, morphological, stratal, and semantic properties of the base words.
Morphological rules diVer in their degree of quantitative productivity,
which can be estimated by counting the number of hapaxes of the relevant
morphological type in a sample of words.
An important topic of morphological analysis is the investigation of
principles and constraints with respect to the ordering of aYxes in a
multiply complex word.
72 word-formation
Questions
1. The English verb to ride has as its past tense form rode, whereas the past tense
of the denominal verb to joyride is joyrided. Suppose that the use of vowel
change for making past tense forms is triggered by the presence of a diacritic
feature [+ ablaut]. How can the difference between rode and joyrided be
explained?
2. The English suffix -able is of non-native, Romance origin. Can you provide
evidence to prove that this suffix has become a native suffix in present-day
English?
3. Do the following English denominal verbs form a problem for the Right-
hand Head Rule for English: enamour, encage, enchain, encircle, encourage,
enfeeble? (Bear in mind that possible words can form an intermediate stage
in word-formation.)
4. The Italian default conjugation is that of verbs in -are, as can be seen in
Italian loan verbs from English such as dribblare ‘‘to dribble’’ and scioccare
‘‘to shock’’. How can this fact be used for interpreting the formation of the
Italian verb invecchiare in (6) as a case of prefixation only instead of con-
sidering it a case of parasynthetic word-formation?
5. A number of Dutch prefixed verbs have a corresponding noun without
additional overt morphology. Such nouns, derived from prefixed verbs
through conversion, are always neuter:
be-roep ‘‘to appeal’’ beroep ‘‘appeal’’
ge-bruik ‘‘to use’’ gebruik ‘‘use’’
onder-wijs ‘‘to teach’’ onderwijs ‘‘teaching’’
over-leg ‘‘to deliberate’’ overleg ‘‘deliberation’’
ver-val ‘‘to decay’’ verval ‘‘decay’’
ver-raad ‘‘to betray’’ verraad ‘‘betrayal’’
Nouns derived from simplex verbs through conversion (such as val ‘‘fall’’),
however, tend to be non-neuter. Why are these facts a problem for a
percolation account of gender assignment to complex nouns?
6. In Malagasy, reduplication is often used for attenuation or diminution. Thus,
fòtsifótsy ‘‘white-white’’ means ‘‘whitish’’ (compare the simplex word fótsy
‘‘white’’;Keenan andPolinsky 1998: 571). Do youthinkitispossibletoexplain
this interpretation of reduplicated forms by means of the notion of ‘iconicity’?
7. English has at least the following prefixes with some negative meaning: de-,
dis-, in-, non-, and un-. Make a list of the (phonological, syntactic, semantic,
and stratal) constraints that each of these prefixes imposes on its base
words. What is the division of labour between these five prefixes?
8. a. In Polish, the diminutive suffix -awy can be attached to adjectives
only, resulting in adjectives with the meaning ‘‘somewhat A’’, as in
czarny-czarnawy ‘‘black–blackish’’ and czerwony–czerwonawy ‘‘red–
reddish’’. Is this a counterexample to the RHR if that rule is assumed
to be valid for Polish?
derivation 73
b. This diminutive suffix cannot be attached to relational adjectives such
as domowy ‘‘of a house’’ derived from dom ‘‘house’’, or szkolny ‘‘of a
school’’ derived from szkoła ‘‘school’’. How might this be explained?
9. The English negative prefixes a- and an- borrowed from Greek can both be
attached to adjectives. What determines the choice between these prefixes?
10. The relational adjective American can be modified by the adverb very, as in
a very American attitude, or prefixed, as in an un-American attitude. What
kind of change in the interpretation of American does this bring about?
Further reading
General discussions of constraints on word-formation are found in Aronoff
(1976), Booij (1977, 2002b), Plank (1981), Plag (1999, 2003), Scalise
(1984), and Rainer (2000). Plag (1999) advocates base-driven restrictions.
Anderson (1992) defends the position that word-internal structure is inaccess-
ible to morphology (the theory of A-morphous Morphology), whereas
Carstairs-McCarthy (1993) defends the opposite view. A survey of cases of
cross-categorial morphology is given in Plank (1981: 43–65).
The binyanim of Classical Hebrew are treated in Aronoff (1994) and Verheij
(2000).
Bauer (2001) presents a survey and analysis of the discussions on the notion
‘productivity’; quantitative measures of productivity are proposed in Baayen
(1992, 1993). The different quantitative measures of productivity are also
discussed in Plag (1999: ch 2) and in Baayen (2003).
Affix ordering is discussed in the framework of lexical phonology, in terms of
so-called level ordering (cf. Fabb 1988; Plag 1996; Booij 2000). Affix ordering
principles for English and German are discussed in Aronoff and Fuhrhop
(2002), and in a number of articles in YoM 2001. Hay (2002) relates affix
ordering restrictions in English to the degree of parsability of the affixes. Rice
(2000) proposes semantic principles for affix order in Athapaskan languages.
74 word-formation
4
Compounding
4.1 Compound types
In many languages, compounding (also called composition) is the most
frequently used way of making new lexemes. Its deWning property is that
it consists of the combination of lexemes into larger words. In simple cases,
compounding consists of the combination of two words, in which one word
modiWes the meaning of the other, the head. This means that such com-
pounds have a binary structure. Here are some examples from a number of
European languages:
(1) Dutch huis-vrouw ‘‘house wife’’
German Rot-licht ‘‘red light’’
Greek organo-pektis ‘‘instrument player, musician’’
Hungarian asztal-la
2b ‘‘table-leg’’
Latin perenni-servus ‘‘perennial slave, slave forever’’
The productivity of compounding in many languages is largely due to its
semantic transparency and versatility. When a new compound is formed,
we already know the meaning of its constituents, and the only task we face
is to Wnd out about the semantic relation between the two parts. The
general semantic pattern of a compound of the form XY is that it denotes
a Y that has something to do with X, or vice versa, depending on the
language. The exact nature of the semantic relation between the two
4.1 Compound types 75
4.2 Compounds and phrases 81
4.3 Compounds and derived
words 85
4.4 InterWxes and allomorphy 88
4.5 Synthetic compounds
and noun incorporation 90
Summary 93
Questions 93
Further reading 95
constituents receives no formal expression, and is a matter of interpretation
by the language user. As language users, we have to interpret that relation-
ship on the basis of the meanings of the compound constituents, our
knowledge of the world, and sometimes the context in which the compound
is used. The role of context can be illustrated by a situation in which we
tell a guest who enters the room and looks for a seat: You may take the
apple-juice chair. This means that this person should take the seat at the
table in front of which a glass of apple juice is standing (Downing 1977).
The recently coined compound butt call denotes a call on your mobile
phone from someone who calls you unintentionally by sitting on her/
his own mobile phone and thus pressing a button. This is by nature a
contextual compound, but even these can get lexicalized.
The process of compounding can be applied recursively, and thus we
might get pretty long compounds. This is another cause of its productivity.
A famous long compound is the German word Donau-dampf-schiV-fahrts-
gesellschaft ‘‘lit. Danube-steam-ship-travel-company’’, the name of a ship-
ping company that used to be active on the Danube; an English example is
White House travel oYce staV. The structure of this latter compound can be
represented as follows:
(2) [[[[White]A [House]N]N [[travel]N [oYce]N]N]N [staV ]N]N
Instead of labelled bracketing we may also use trees to represent the
morphological structure of compounds. In the case of multiply complex
words, this notation is easier for understanding the structure of a word.
The tree representation of the compound in (2) is as shown in Figure 4.1.
The morphological notion ‘head’ discussed in Chapter 3 is very relevant
for the analysis of compounding. In Germanic languages like English, for
instance, the right constituent of a compound is normally the head, and
hence almost all compounds conform to the following scheme:
Fig. 4.1 Morphological tree of White House travel oYce staV
76 word-formation
(3) [ X Y]Y, Y ¼ N, A, V
As shown by words such as underdog and German Um-welt ‘‘lit. around-
world, environment’’ (um ‘‘around’’ is a preposition), not only content
words may occupy the non-head position X, but function words such as
prepositions as well. As we will see shortly, phrases may also occur in
the non-head position. Almost all compounds in these languages belong
to one of the major lexical categories, in particular N and A. Compounds
with a verbal head (Y ¼ V) do occur, but are exceptional in Germanic
languages.
The scheme in (3) indicates that the syntactic category of the compound
as a whole is that of the right constituent. This also holds for subclass
features, such as gender for nouns. In Dutch, the distinction between
neuter and non-neuter gender manifests itself in the choice of the def.sg
determiner (het and de respectively), and so we get pairs like the following:
(4) het soepvlees ‘‘the soup meat’’
(neuter)
de vleessoep ‘‘the meat soup’’
(non-neuter)
het modefeest ‘‘the fashion party’’
(neuter)
de feestmode ‘‘the party fashion’’
(non-neuter)
The headedness of a compound is not only relevant for its formal
properties, but also for its semantic interpretation. The compound soepvlees
in (4), for example, denotes a particular kind of meat, not a particular kind
of soup, whereas the inverse applies to the compound vleessoep. In other
words, the left constituent of such compounds functions to modify the
meaning of the head constituent.
The notion ‘head’ is also relevant for the application of inXectional rules,
since it is the head that determines how the inXectional properties of the
whole compound are realized. Since the Dutch noun kind ‘‘child’’ has the
irregular plural form kinderen, this plural form recurs in the plural form of
the compound kleinkind ‘‘grandchild’’, namely kleinkinderen. This is why
the process of noun pluralization is sometimes called a head operation. An
alternative interpretation of these facts is that the pluralization of a com-
pound is determined by its paradigmatic relationship with its head noun. In
this example, the compound kleinkind is then paradigmatically related to
the noun pair kind–kinderen ‘‘child–children’’, and hence its plural is klein-
kinderen.
Compounds are not universally right-headed since there are also
languages with left-headed compounds. The following examples of
compounding 77
left-headed compounds are from Maori, spoken in New Zealand
(Bauer 1993: 518–20):
(5) roro hiko
brain electricity
‘‘computer’’
maarama taka
month revolve
‘‘calendar’’
wai mangu
water black
‘‘ink’’
whare heihei
house hen
‘‘hen-house’’
This diVerence with respect to the position of the head in compounds might
suggest that the position of the head is a parametrical diVerence between
languages. For Germanic languages, the value of the parameter is ‘right’,
whereas it is ‘left’ for Maori.
Is it possible for a language to have both left-headed and right-headed
compounds? Italian appears to have both left-headed compounds such as
capo-stazione ‘‘lit. master station, station master’’ and croce-rossa ‘‘lit.
cross red, red cross’’, and right-headed compounds such as gentil-uomo
‘‘kind man, gentleman’’ (Scalise 1992a). However, one could also interpret
the left-headed compounds as lexicalized phrases. This interpretation
is supported by the observation that the plural form of capostazione is
capistazione, with an internal plural suYx -i. So the answer to the question
raised in this paragraph depends on your criteria for word-hood. If we
want to stick to the rule that inXection cannot appear word-internally,
capostazione is a phrase (and thus Italian might be a language with right-
headed compounds only), but if we think this is not a relevant criterion, it
can be classiWed as a (left-headed) compound with inXection on its head
capo, that is, a case of head inXection.
The scheme in (3) above is a bit too general for Germanic languages such
as English, in that it predicts too many compounds to occur. A robust
generalization for Germanic languages is that VV compounds such as to
freeze-dry, AV compounds such as to whitewash, and NV compounds such
as to machine-wash are pretty rare. They have often been coined through
78 word-formation
back formation from nominal compounds (to babysit from babysitter) or
adjectival compounds (to machine-wash from machine-washable). Hence we
have to specify which instantiations of (3) are well formed in a particular
language, and which can be formed productively.
Another source of compound verbs is the conversion of nominal com-
pounds into verbs. For instance, the Dutch nominal compound voetbal ‘‘soc-
cer’’ has been converted into the verb voetbal ‘‘to play soccer’’. Note that this
verb has no right verbal constituent as its head. Therefore, we have to specify
for each language with right-headed compounds which particular combin-
ations of lexical categories in scheme (3) can be used for coining compounds.
The left, non-head position X of scheme (3) allows for all kinds of
constituents, and hence is left unspeciWed. Phrasal constituents need not
be excluded from the left head position, as the following examples from
English illustrate:
(6) [French history]NP teacher
[20th century]NP welfare state
[wages or employment]NP protection
[‘one size Wts all’]S mass production public service
It is obvious why phrases can only occur in the left, non-head position: if
they appeared in the head position, such constructions would be phrases
themselves, and not words. However, the possibility for phrases to appear
within compounds does not mean that all kinds of phrases are allowed in
this position. DeWnite NPs with a determiner are clearly excluded, as illus-
trated by the ungrammaticality of the phrase a [the French history] teacher.
Compounds with a head are called endocentric compounds. The term
‘endocentric’ means that the category of the whole (syntactic or morpho-
logical) construction is identical to that of one of its constituents. There are
also exocentric compounds for which this is not the case. Consider Romance
compounds consisting of a verbal stem followed by a plural noun (Scalise
1992a; Rainer and Varela 1992):
(7) Italian porta-lettere ‘‘lit. carry letters, postman’’
lava-piatti ‘‘lit. wash dishes, dish washer’’
Spanish lanza-cohetes ‘‘lit. launch rockets, rocket launcher’’
limpia-botas ‘‘lit. clean boots, bootblack’’
These compounds are nouns, but there is no head. In this respect, they are
comparable to English compounds like pickpocket and cut-throat that also
compounding 79
lack a head. The plural nominal constituents do not function as heads. For
instance, portalettere does not denote certain kinds of letters. The left
constituent is a verb in its stem-form. The nouns in the right position of
these compounds have plural endings, whereas the compounds themselves
are neutral with respect to number, and can be used both as singular and as
plural forms. Therefore, these nouns cannot be the heads of the compounds
of which they form a part. So this kind of compound is a clear case of
exocentric compounding.
A special semantic interpretation is required for compounds such as
German Kahlkopf ‘‘lit. bald-head, person with a bald head’’, and English
blue-stocking. In these cases, the compound denotes the person who is in
possession of the entity mentioned by the compound. The traditional term
for compounds with this special interpretation, taken from Sanskrit, is
bahuvrihi-compound. They are sometimes considered to form a subset of
the exocentric compounds, since they do not refer to the entity mentioned
by the head of the compound: a baldhead is not a type of head. However, this
special use is not unique for compounds. When a teacher wants to address a
pupil whose name she does not know, she might say: That red sweater should
shut up, meaning that the pupil with the red sweater should keep his mouth
closed. Hence, this use of compounds appears to be a conventionalized use
of words, in which the word for a part denotes the whole (pars-pro-toto).
Therefore, we do not have to consider them as a special structural category.
The conventional interpretation might however inXuence its formal behav-
iour. The Dutch bahuvrihi-compound spleet-oog ‘‘slit-eye’’ is used to refer
to people of Chinese appearance. Its gender is non-neuter, although its head
oog ‘‘eye’’ is a neuter noun. So the formal gender class of the head noun is
overruled by the special semantic interpretation of this compound.
Another type of bahuvrihi-compounds is exempliWed by the Latin
adjectival compounds auri-com-us ‘‘having golden hair’’ and magn-anim-us
‘‘magnanimous’’. Here the noun aurum ‘‘gold’’ and the adjective magnus
‘‘great’’ combine with a noun (coma ‘‘hair’’ and animus ‘‘soul’’ respectively)
into a compound that is an adjective (Oniga 1992). The exocentricity of
these compounds cannot be explained in terms of semantic interpretation
in the same way as baldhead, because they behave formally as adjectives,
although there is no adjectival head.
A special class of compounds is formed by copulative compounds. In
these compounds there is no semantic head, and the relation between the
constituent is a relation of coordination. Examples of such compounds are
80 word-formation
the Sanskrit dvandva compounds, and similar compounds in Punjabi (Olsen
2001; Bhatia 1993: 320):
(8) candrā-dityā-u
moon-sun-dual
‘‘the moon and the sun’’
devā-sura-s
god-demon-pl
‘‘three or more gods and demons’’
raat-din ‘‘night and day’’
maa-pio ‘‘mother and father’’
sukh-dukh ‘‘happiness and sorrow’’
These compounds function as dual or plural expressions, and are therefore
quite similar to NPs with coordination, which also receive a plural
interpretation.
Copulative compounds also occur in European languages, as illustrated
by the following words:
(9) German Österreich-Ungarn ‘‘Austria and Hungary’’
Fürstbischof ‘‘prince and bishop’’
English blue-green, washer-dryer
Dutch rood-wit-blauw ‘‘red-white-blue’’
The last example is an adjectival compound with three constituents of
semantically equal status. Yet, it is only the last of the three constituents
that receives the inXectional ending -e in attributive position (as in rood-wit-
blauw-e vlag ‘‘red-white-blue Xag’’), which shows that this is not a case of
syntactic coordination of words. If that were the case, all adjectives would
be inXected, as in *rode-witte-blauwe vlag. However, the copulative com-
pounds in (9) are diVerent from dvandva compounds because their number
is singular. A Fürstbischof is a person who is simultaneously a prince and a
bishop, and this word does not refer to a combination of persons. Therefore,
such compounds are sometimes classiWed as appositive compounds.
4.2 Compounds and phrases
An important issue in the analysis of compounds is their demarcation from
phrasal expressions. There are two reasons why it is not always easy to
distinguish the two. First, phrases can have the same function as words, that
compounding 81
of labels for name-worthy categories. Second, phrases and compounds
look quite similar because compound patterns often derive historically
from phrasal word combinations.
Let us now have a look at formal correlates of the distinction between
compounds and phrases. The German word for ‘‘red cabbage’’ is the
Adjective–Noun compound Rotkohl, whereas Dutch uses the NP rode
kool to express the notion ‘‘red cabbage’’. In this example it is not diYcult
to see that the Dutch expression is a phrase, since the adjective is inXected
(the stem rod- ‘‘red’’ is followed by the inXectional ending -e). This type of
inXection is a case of agreement: the adjective has to agree with the noun that
it modiWes for properties such as gender, number, and deWniteness. The
German expression, on the other hand, is a compound because the adjective
Rot is not inXected (compare this to the German noun phrase ein rot-er Kohl
‘‘a red cabbage’’, with the adjectival ending -er). This reasoning presupposes
that word-internal constituents cannot be aVected by a syntactically
conditioned rule such as agreement. Independent evidence for the diVerent
status of German Rotkohl compared to Dutch rode kool is found in the
stress diVerences between these expressions. In German and Dutch noun
phrases, main stress is normally on the head, whereas in nominal com-
pounds main stress is on the non-head. Indeed, the main stress locations
are diVerent: Rótkòhl (compound stress) versus ròde kóol (phrasal stress). In
English there is no adjectival inXection of this kind, and hence stress is the
only criterion that we can use to distinguish phrases from compounds.
Thus, we consider bláckbòard a compound, and blàck bóard a phrase.
This use of A + N phrases as labels for categories implies a certain formal
restriction: the adjective cannot be modiWed. A phrase such as heel rode kool
‘‘very red cabbage’’ cannot function to classify kool ‘‘cabbage’’. This latter
phrase functions as a description instead of a name for a particular kind
of cabbage.
The potential functional equivalence of compounds and phrases of the
Adjective + Noun type is particularly clear in the case of noun phrases
with relational adjectives. Consider the following data from English
(Levi 1978: 38):
(10) a. atom bomb b. atomic bomb
industry output industrial output
language skills linguistic skills
city parks urban parks
ocean life marine life
82 word-formation
We see NN compounds in the left, and AN phrases in the right column.
The adjectives used are denominal relational adjectives. We consider
the expressions in the right column as phrases because they carry main
stress on their right constituent. The last two examples illustrate that these
relational adjectives do not necessarily have to be the adjectival derivatives
of nouns: urban, for instance, is the only available relational adjective for
expressing the meaning ‘‘related to cities’’. These relational adjectives can
normally only be used in attributive position. We can speak of urban parks
or rural police, but not of parks that are urban or police that is rural
(we might, however, speak of parks that are urban in nature). In sum,
AN phrases with relational adjectives are functionally equivalent to NN
compounds. Yet, these two constructions have to be kept apart as far
as their formal properties are concerned, as phrases versus compounds.
Another illustration of this demarcation problem are the so-called geni-
tive compounds in English of the type women’s magazine, girls’ school,
Down’s syndrome and Murphy’s law. These expressions must be considered
phrases given the presence of the internal inXectional suYx or clitic -s. Yet,
they function in the same way as compounds. These expressions instantiate
a lexicalized syntactic pattern that functions to create new labels. Note also
that many of these expressions have main stress on their Wrst constituent,
just like English compounds: Dówn’s syndrome and Múrphy’s law. We
therefore assume an idiomatic pattern or constructional idiom N’s N for
English that serves to create new lexical expressions. A constructional
idiom is a Wxed syntactic pattern in which some positions may be Wlled by
all kinds of words of the right category, whereas other positions are Wlled
by speciWc morphemes or words. In this case, there is only one morpheme
lexically speciWed, the morpheme -s. The two N positions are variable, and
can be Wlled by all sorts of noun.
Certain lexical expressions in Romance languages are sometimes incor-
rectly called compounds although they have in fact a phrasal form. This
applies to French salle à manger ‘‘dining room’’ and chambre d’hôte ‘‘guest
room’’. The structures N à N and N de N are instantiations of the syntactic
structure [N PP]NP, a noun phrase consisting of a head N followed by a PP
complement, and have developed into constructional idioms. Such phrases
are functionally equivalent to compounds in Germanic languages, and that
is why the mistake is made to consider them compounds. Note, however,
that their plural forms are salle-s à manger and chambre-s d’hôtes respect-
ively, with an internal plural ending. This proves their phrasal nature since
compounding 83
the plural form of a French word is expressed by a suYx at its right edge.
Another type of apparent French compound is homme-grenouille ‘‘lit. man
frog, frogman’’. Its plural form requires both constituents to be pluralized
(hommes-grenouilles) which suggests that we have to do with an NP in which
the phrasal head is followed by a noun with an appositional function.
The word-or-phrase problem also shows up in the formal analysis of
separable complex verbs. These are verbal expressions that look like verbal
compounds, but do not have the formal status of words since their con-
stituents can be separated in syntax. Consider the following Hungarian
noun–verb combinations (Kiefer 1992):
(11) level-et ı́r
letter-acc write
‘‘be engaged in letter writing’’
újság-ot olvas
newspaper-acc read
‘‘be engaged in newspaper reading’’
tévé-t néz
television-acc watch
‘‘be engaged in television watching’’
Similar separable complex verbs occur in Dutch:
(12) stof zuigen
dust suck
‘‘to vacuum-clean’’
bier brouwen
beer brew
‘‘to brew beer’’
piano spelen
piano play
‘‘to play the piano’’
These Hungarian and Dutch expressions are diVerent from regular verb
phrases in that the object NP is a bare noun and cannot be preceded by a
determiner. This makes them look like verbal compounds. However, these
expressions are phrasal in that they can be split in certain syntactic con-
texts. In Hungarian, the negative particle nem ‘‘not’’ can appear between
the noun and the verb:
(13) Levelet nem ı́r ‘‘He is not engaged in letter writing’’
84 word-formation
In the case of the Dutch separable complex verbs, their phrasal nature can
be concluded from the fact that the participle preWx ge- does not appear
before the particle, but in between the particle and the verb. The relevant
participles of the verbs mentioned above are stof-ge-zog-en, bier-ge-brouw-
en and piano-ge-speel-d respectively.
Phrasal patterns with a word-like function such as these separable com-
plex verbs can be qualiWed as constructional idioms. The constructional
idiom ‘bare Noun + V’ in Hungarian and Dutch has the speciWc meaning
‘‘to be engaged in a particular institutionalized activity’’ (such as writing
letters or playing the piano). Such constructional idioms may serve the
same function as morphological patterns: expanding the set of lexical units
of a language. Recall that the concept of constructional idiom is also
applicable to the cases of apparent compounds in French discussed
above. These are syntactic patterns such as N de N, with open positions
for the nouns, and a Wxed preposition de, patterns that can be used to coin
new expressions to designate classes of entities.
4.3 Compounds and derived words
The crucial distinction between compounds and derived words is that in
compounds each of the constituents is a form of a lexeme, whereas deriv-
ation involves aYxes, that is, non-lexemic morphemes. However, the dis-
tinction is not always so clear-cut, because a lexeme may develop into a
derivational morpheme. An example is the Dutch noun boer ‘‘farmer’’ that
occurs in complex words such as the following:
(14) groente-boer ‘‘lit. greens farmer, green-grocer’’
melk-boer ‘‘lit. milk farmer, dairy man’’
sigaren-boer ‘‘lit. cigars farmer, cigar seller’’
tijdschriften-boer ‘‘lit. magazines farmer, magazine seller’’
In the Wrst two examples, the original meaning of ‘‘farmer’’ still makes
some sense since farmers may sell their produce such as greens and dairy.
However, these words are nowadays used to refer to persons who sell veget-
ables or dairy without producing these goods themselves. The last two
examples show even more clearly that the morpheme boer has developed
into a morpheme with the meaning ‘‘seller’’, but only in combination with
another noun. Hence, we may conclude that boer has developed into a
compounding 85
suYx. In fact, many aYxes derive from lexemes. An example of a preWx that
derives from a lexeme is Dutch oud ‘‘old’’ that has the meaning ‘‘former,
ex-’’ when added to a noun as in oud-burgemeester ‘‘ex-mayor’’. Note that this
word cannot receive the interpretation ‘‘old mayor’’. The phenomenon of
lexemes becoming aYxes is a cross-linguistically widespread phenomenon,
and an instance of grammaticalization, the historical process in which
lexical morphemes become grammatical ones. Grammatical morphemes are
either function words or bound morphemes. AYx-like morphemes such as
boer and oud that still correspond to a lexeme are called aYxoids.
The boundary between compounding and derivation is also blurred in
the domain of neo-classical compounding. In this kind of compounding
one or both of the constituents of a word are roots borrowed from Greek
and Latin that do not correspond to lexemes, so-called combining forms.
Consider the following English words:
(15) a. bio-logy, psycho-logy, socio-logy, geo-graphy, tomo-graphy
b. tele-camera, tele-graph, tele-gram, tele-kinesis, tele-matics, tele-phone,
tele-vision
c. bureau-crat, magneto-metry, magneto-hydro-dynamic
The examples in (15a) consist of two combining forms. Combining forms
are divided into initial combining forms (bio-, psycho-, socio-, geo-, tomo-),
and Wnal combining forms (-logy, -graphy). The root graph is found as a
Wnal combining form in telegraph in (15b). There is also a lexeme graph, a
word used in mathematics. However, the lexeme graph has a speciWc
mathematical meaning that does not show up in telegraph.
Neo-classical compounds are diVerent from normal compounds in that
the meanings of the constituent parts cannot be derived from the meaning
of corresponding lexemes. For instance, when a language user is able to
assign the meaning ‘‘life’’ to the morpheme bio-, this is either based on
comparison of a number of words that begin with bio- (in the same way in
which we discover the meaning of aYxes), or because she has been
taught this at school, maybe since she took Ancient Greek as a subject.
The reason why we call such words neo-classical compounds is that in
most cases they have not been borrowed as a whole directly from the
classical languages Greek and Latin. Instead, they have been coined in
the course of time by combining these root morphemes which the language
user can discover through comparison of already existing complex
words. In fact, neo-classical compounding has given rise to a huge
86 word-formation
pan-European lexicon. European languages share huge parts of the set of
neo-classical compounds which are used in science, government, culture,
and business.
The example tele-camera in (15b) shows that an initial combining form
can also combine with words. We are not always sure if the second
constituent is a lexeme or a combining form that corresponds in form to
a lexeme. In the case of television, for instance, there is a lexeme vision, but
this lexeme has a more speciWc meaning than just ‘‘sight’’ (the meaning of
-vision as a combining form). The same applies to graph, as pointed out in
the preceding paragraph. This is why English dictionaries may have two
entries, one for -graph as a combining form, and one for graph as a word.
The words in (15c) show that there are also cases in which a lexeme is
followed by a Wnal combining form. In bureaucrat, the Wrst constituent
bureau is a lexeme, unlike -crat. The word magneto-metry is another
instantiation of this pattern since there is a lexeme magnet. Note, however,
that the form of the lexeme magnet is special in that it is followed by the
linking vowel o. Indeed, most words when used in the Wrst position of
a neo-classical compound have a linking vowel. The word magneto-
hydrodynamic shows that we also Wnd neo-classical compounds with more
than two constituents.
Final combining forms such as -logy and -graphy are perhaps not to be
considered as one, but as two morphemes since they lend themselves to
further morphological analysis, and may be divided into log-y and graph-y
respectively, as suggested by a comparison with words such as bio-log-ist
and geo-graph-er.
When a combining form is combined with a lexeme, the lexeme is usually
taken from the non-native stratum of the lexicon. This is particularly the
case for Wnal combining forms. For instance, the Dutch neo-classical
compound hond-o-loog ‘‘dog specialist’’ derived from the native word
hond ‘‘dog’’ is felt as a jocular type of word-formation. However, initial
combining forms such as the Greek roots eco- and tele- are often attached
to native words as well, as illustrated here for Dutch:
(16) eco-ontbijt ‘‘eco-breakfast’’
eco-paddestoel ‘‘eco-mushroom’’
eco-sigaret ‘‘eco-cigarette’’
tele-leren ‘‘tele-learning’’
tele-werken ‘‘tele-working’’
tele-winkelen ‘‘tele-shopping’’
compounding 87
One might conclude from such data that these initial combining forms have
become preWxes.
A lot of initial combining forms have been created by means of trunca-
tion. A good example is the pan-European initial combining form
euro- that is a truncation of the word Europa. Other examples of such
truncations are afro-, compu-, crea-, cine-, cyber-, digi-, docu-, and Xexi- that
are all used very productively to coin new words in most European
languages.
In short, neo-classical compounding is a very important source of new
words, even though it does not combine lexemes, and therefore does not
possess the same degree of semantic transparency as regular compounds.
The observations on neo-classical compounding in the preceding para-
graphs all lead to the conclusion that it is not always easy or possible to
decide if a complex word is a case of compounding or of derivation.
4.4 Interfixes and allomorphy
When lexemes are used as building blocks of compounds, they may exhibit
a special form. This is the case for Greek compounds: in most cases the Wrst
constituent ends in the vowel /o/ which is added to the stem-form of the
lexeme. These vowels are clearly diVerent from the inXectional endings that
appear in the corresponding words (Ralli 1992: 145, 153):
(17) pag-o-vuno ‘‘ice mountain, ice berg’’ < pag-os ‘‘ice’’, vun-o ‘‘mountain’’
psom-o-tiri ‘‘bread (and) cheese’’ < psom-i ‘‘bread’’, tir-i ‘‘cheese’’
sime-o-stolizmos ‘‘Xag decoration’’ < sime-a ‘‘Xag’’, stolizm-os ‘‘decoration’’
Such vowels, which are called interWxes or linking elements, do not con-
tribute a meaning of their own to the word as a whole, but only function to
create stem-forms that are suitable for being used in compounds. Phono-
logically, they belong to the Wrst constituent of the compound. This can be
concluded from the division of such words into syllables: when possible,
these vowels form a syllable together with the last consonant of the Wrst
stem, for instance pa.go.vu.no (the dots indicate syllable boundaries). If the
linking element did not belong phonologically to the Wrst stem, we would
have expected the syllabiWcation pattern pag.o.vu.no. The appearance of
these linking elements can be interpreted as a case of stem allomorphy,
the phenomenon that stems may have more than one phonological form.
88 word-formation
The selection of a particular allomorph is governed by the morphological
context. In the case of Greek compounds, we thus have to state that the stem
allomorph that ends in -o has to be used as Wrst constituent of such words.
Stem allomorphy is also found in Dutch compounds. Consider the
following cases (Booij 2002a: 178–80):
(18) schaap ‘‘sheep’’ schaap-herder ‘‘shepherd’’
schaap-s-kop ‘‘sheep’s head’’
schap-en-vlees ‘‘lit. sheep’s meat, mutton’’
kind ‘‘child’’ kind-er-wagen ‘‘lit. children’s cart, pram’’
koningin ‘‘queen’’ koninginn-e-dag ‘‘Queen’s birthday’’
These examples illustrate the use of the linking elements -s, -e (mostly spelt
as -e or -en), and -er. Historically, these are mainly inXectional endings. For
instance, -s derives from a genitive suYx -s, and -er is an old plural suYx
that is still used as such in German. The -e is historically either a case suYx
or the last vowel of the stem. Synchronically, these linking elements
no longer have the status of inXectional suYxes. Since they belong phono-
logically to the Wrst stem, we may say that, for instance, the lexeme schaap
has three stem allomorphs: schaap-, schaaps-, and schape-. When a native
speaker of Dutch coins new compounds, the choice of a particular
allomorph will often be based on analogy. Since we have koninginnedag,
we will also opt for the schwa-Wnal allomorph in a new compound such as
koninginne-hoed ‘‘queen’s hat’’. In the case of schaap, however, all three
allomorphs may be chosen. The morphological structure of the left
constituent may also play a role. For instance, Dutch diminutive nouns,
which end in -je, are always followed by the linking element -s when used as
the Wrst constituent of a compound:
(19) meisje-s-lijk ‘‘girl’s corpse’’, *meisje-lijk
dagje-s-mens ‘‘day tripper’’, *dagje-mens
rijtje-s-huis ‘‘row house’’, *rijtje-huis
Dutch has a plural suYx -s as well. However, the -s in these compounds
cannot be interpreted as a plural suYx, given their meaning. For instance,
meisjeslijk denotes the corpse of only one girl, and dagjesmens denotes a
person who takes a one-day trip.
The choice of stem allomorph in Dutch compounds is also constrained
by a paradigmatic factor: one can only choose the schwa-Wnal allomorph
(spelt with Wnal -en) if the plural suYx for the relevant noun is the suYx
compounding 89
-en. The appearance of the linking element -s is not subject to such a
constraint. The following data illustrate this regularity:
(20) Noun Plural form Compound
varken ‘‘pig’’ varken-s varken-s-vlees ‘‘pig’s meat’’, *varken-e-vlees
leraar ‘‘teacher’’ lerar-en leraar-s-salaris ‘‘teacher’s salary’’,
lerar-en-vergadering ‘‘teachers’ meeting’’
The use of linking elements is not restricted to nominal compounds.
In Spanish the vowel i can be used as an interWx in coordinative adjectival
compounds (Rainer and Varela 1992: 132):
(21) roj-i-blanco ‘‘red and white’’ < rojo ‘‘red’’, blanco ‘‘white’’
clar-i-vidente ‘‘clairvoyant’’ < clar-o ‘‘clear’’, vidente ‘‘seeing’’
This kind of stem allomorphy is thus a variation in the shape of morphemes
that is not governed by the phonology of a language, but is regulated by its
morphology.
4.5 Synthetic compounds and noun incorporation
Consider the following English nominal compounds of which the head is
a deverbal noun:
(22) sword-swallower, heart-breaker, church-goer, money-changer, typesetter
These compounds pose some analytical questions. First, some of the nominal
heads such as swallower and goer do not occur as words of their own. These
are possible, but not established English words. Thus, these words show that
possible words can function as building blocks in word-formation. One might
also argue that these words are derived by attaching the suYx -er to the verbal
compounds sword-swallow, heart-break, etc. This alternative analysis is inad-
equate because verbal compounding is not a productive process in English,
and hence does not license the possible words sword-swallow or heart-break.
What we see here is that the use of one word-formation process, nominal
compounding, implies the use of another word-formation process, deverbal
nominalization with -er, which provides possible words like swallower and
breaker. These words are then used as the heads of nominal compounds. The
term synthetic compounding is traditionally used to indicate that this kind
of word-formation looks like the simultaneous use of compounding and
90 word-formation
derivation. This instance of simultaneous use can be expressed through the
conXation of the English morphological templates for NN compounds and
deverbal nouns into the following one:
(23) [[N] [V-er]N]N
Such conXation of compounding and derivation is also found for other
types of word-formation, as illustrated by blue-eyed, in which AA
compounding is conXated with the formation of denominal adjectives
(note that eyed itself is not an established word of English).
The second special property of the compounds in (22) is that the left
constituent fulWls a speciWc semantic role with respect to the verbal base of
the right constituent. For instance, in sword swallower, the constituent
sword functions as the Patient-argument of swallow, the verbal base of
the head noun. In order to understand this semantic regularity, we must
look in more detail at how semantic roles are linked to verbs. Verbs assign
speciWc semantic roles to the NPs that they occur with in a clause. The verb
to swallow may occur with two NPs, one with the role of Agent (the
controller of the action), and one with the role of Patient (the entity that
undergoes the action mentioned by the verb). NPs that receive a semantic
role from a verb are called the arguments of that verb. Similarly, in the
synthetic compound church goer, the constituent church fulWls the semantic
role of Goal with respect to the verbal base go of the head noun goer
because to go assigns the semantic role of Goal. The question thus arises
how we account for this semantic relationship between the left noun and
the verbal base of the right noun.
Is it possible to consider these words to be cases of -er-aYxation to VPs
such as to swallow swords? If this were possible, we would have explained
why the left nouns in these compounds have the same semantic roles as
those they receive in verb phrases. The answer is negative. This guess may
look adequate, but from a formal point of view it is a hopeless idea. First, in
the compound, the word sword appears in its bare form, as a stem, which is
impossible in a phrase: *to swallow sword. Second, the word order would
be wrong. In English VPs the syntactic object follows the verb, but in sword
swallower the opposite order is found. Therefore, it is a better option to
analyse these words as regular compounds, with the special property that
the argument structure of the verbal base is inherited by the derived noun
with the suYx -er. Thus, the head noun can assign a semantic role such as
Patient or Goal to the left constituent.
compounding 91
As mentioned before, most Germanic languages do not have productive
processes for verbal compounding. However, English gerund forms and
Dutch inWnitival forms of verbs do occur as the heads of compounds:
(24) English: mountain-climbing, word-processing
Dutch: hard-lopen ‘‘fast walking’’, wedstrijd-zwemmen ‘‘competition
swimming’’
These words, however, do not have Wnite forms, and the sentence I went
mountain-climbing is much better than I mountain-climb every Saturday
(Mithun 1984: 847). Speakers of Dutch use the periphrastic progressive
construction to solve the problem caused by the lack of Wnite forms, as in Ik
ben aan het hardlopen ‘‘I am fast-walking’’ (compare the ungrammatical
sentence*Ikhard-loop‘‘Ifast-walk’’).InanotherGermaniclanguage,Frisian,
occasionally new NV compounds with Wnite forms do occur (Dyk 1997: 29):
(25) Hja bôle-bakt al jieren met njocht
she loaf-bakes already years with pleasure
‘‘She bakes loaves already for many years with pleasure’’
The combination of a noun and a verb into a verbal compound is usually
called noun incorporation. It is used primarily to form verbs that express an
institutionalized activity. These incorporated nouns do not denote speciWc
objects, they are non-referential. In example (25), the noun bôle does not
refer to a speciWc loaf, but to loaves in general. Hence such incorporated
nouns are non-referential.
The diVerence between a verb phrase with an NP and noun incorpor-
ation is illustrated by the following example from the Micronesian lan-
guage Ponapean (Mithun 1984: 850):
(26) a. I kanga-la wini-o
I eat-comp medicine-that
‘‘I took all that medicine’’
b. I keng-winih-la
I eat-medicine-comp
‘‘I completed my medicine-taking’’
In (26b) we see a case of noun incorporation. It has a diVerent meaning than
(26a), which has a syntactically independent object wini-o. In (26b), with an
incorporated and non-referential object winih-, the sentence indicates com-
pletion of the action of medicine taking, while there may be medicine left.
92 word-formation
Typically, the nouns in these cases of incorporation are unmarked for
deWniteness, number or case, and the verbal compound behaves as an
intransitive verb, whereas its verbal head is transitive. Thus, noun incor-
poration often has the eVect of creating verbs with reduced syntactic valency:
since the Patient-argument of the verb is expressed by the incorporated noun,
this argument will no longer receive an independent syntactic expression.
Summary
Compoundsarecombinationsoftwoormorelexemes.Inmanylanguagesthis
word-formation process is used frequently because of its semantic transpare-
ncy and versatility. The boundary between compounds and phrasal lexi-
cal expressions is not always clear. Diagnostics for the phrasal status of lexical
expressions are internal inXection, and the splittability of their constituents.
The distinction between compounding and derivation is sometimes
blurred because lexemes as parts of compounds may receive specialized
interpretations. Such compound constituents are aYx-like, since aYxes
also depend on occurring as part of complex words for them to receive
a proper semantic interpretation. The use of Greek and Latin roots for
neo-classical word-formation also relativizes the distinction between
compounding and word-derivation, because classical roots that are not
lexemes might be considered aYxes.
Stem allomorphy is a recurrent phenomenon in compounding. The
choice of a particular linking element may be determined by paradigmatic
factors such as analogy to existing compounds and the shape of the plural
form of the corresponding lexeme.
Synthetic compounding can be seen as the simultaneous use of com-
pounding and derivational morphology in coining a new compound. The
semantic role of the non-head in these compounds may be determined by
the argument structure of the verbal base of the head noun. Noun incorp-
oration is a similar process.
Questions
1. Which categories of words can combine in English compounds? What
restrictions on possible combinations of categories do you observe?
compounding 93
2. Give the complete morphological structure of the following English com-
pounds: recreation hall, book keeping, truck driver, pickpocket, underdog,
homegrown.
3. Dutch appears to make use of noun incorporation, as illustrated by the
following verbal compounds (Weggelaar 1986):
klapper-tand ‘‘to have chattering teeth’’ < klapper ‘‘to rattle’’, tand ‘‘tooth’’
stamp-voet ‘‘to stamp one’s feet’’ < stamp ‘‘to stamp’’, < voet ‘‘feet’’.
What problem do these compounds pose for the Right-hand Head Rule
which is normally applicable to Dutch compounds?
4. Consider the following recently coined words ending in gate coined on
analogy to Watergate: Irangate, Monicagate, nipplegate. These three words
denote scandals. Are these words cases of compounding, or of derivation?
Explain your answer.
5. Compare the following two sentences from Yucatec, a Mexican language
(Mithun 1984: 858):
a. k-in-č’ak-Ø-k če’ ičil in-kool
INCOMP-I-chop-it-IMPF tree in my-cornfield
‘‘I chop the tree in my cornfield’’
b. k-in-č’ak-če’-t-ik in-kool
INCOMP-I-chop-tree-TR-IMPF my-cornfield
‘‘I clear my cornfield’’
Explain the differences in interpretation between these two almost identical
sentences.
6. Compare the following two adjective–noun combinations in Modern
Greek:
[aghri-o]A [ghat-os]N ‘‘wild cat’’ < aghri- ‘‘wild’’ + ghatos ‘‘cat’’
[psixr-os]A [polem-os]N ‘‘cold war’’ < psixros ‘‘cold’’ + polemos ‘‘war’’
In the first example, there is a linking element o, and only an inflectional
ending on the second word; in the second AN combination, both constitu-
ents are inflected. How can this difference in inflectional behaviour be
explained?
7. Consider the following Italian verb–noun compound: [[spazza]V[camino]N]N
‘‘lit. sweep chimney, chimney sweep(er)’’. Is this an endocentric or an
exocentric compound?
8. Try to specify the semantic relation between the two constituents of the
recently coined English compounds bear jam, deprivation cuisine, flash mob,
information pollution, man breasts, office creeper, salad dodger. Which of
them cannot be interpreted easily on the basis of the meanings of their
constituent words? (source www.wordspy.com)
9. In Punjabi, there are noun–noun compounds that denote the superordinate
semantic category of the two nouns involved (Bhatia 1993: 320):
94 word-formation
hatth-pair ‘‘body’’ < hatth ‘‘hand’’, pair ‘‘feet’’
úú-nakk ‘‘face’’ < múú ‘‘mouth’’, nakk ‘‘nose’’
bas-kaar ‘‘vehicle’’ < bas ‘‘bus’’, kaar ‘‘car’’
What problem do these compounds pose for the hypothesis that com-
pounds always have one of their constituents as a head?
10. Which formal processes are involved in the formation of the following
complex words in Punjabi (Bhatia 1993: 322)?
paanii ‘‘water’’ paanii-shaanii ‘‘water and the like’’
kamm ‘‘work’’ kamm-shamm ‘‘work and the like’’
gapp ‘‘silly talk’’ gapp-shapp ‘‘silly talk and the rest’’
ultaa ‘‘conflicting nonsense’’ ultaa-shultaa ‘‘conflicting and other
nonsense’’
Further reading
For a survey of types of compounding, see Olsen (2000, 2001); a survey of
compounding in a number of European languages is given in Scalise (1992b).
A number of articles on separable complex verbs can be found in YoM 2003.
The problem of stem selection is discussed in Aronoff (1994). The role of
analogy in selecting a linking element for Dutch compounds is shown in
Krott (2001).
There is a wealth of literature on synthetic compounds. Botha (1984) pro-
vides a survey of the debate. Specific contributions to the debate are Selkirk
(1982), Hoeksema (1985), Booij (1988), and Hoekstra and van der Putten
(1988). For different views of noun incorporation, see Mithun (1984, 1999,
2000) and Rosen (1989) for a lexical/morphological, and Baker (1988, 1996,
2001) for a syntactic analysis.
compounding 95
This page intentionally left blank
Part III
Inflection
This page intentionally left blank
5
Inflection
5.1 Inflectional properties
InXection is the morphological marking of properties on a lexeme resulting in
a number of forms for that lexeme, a set of grammatical words. In the
example given in section 2.1, the inXection of the Polish lexeme kot, each
form of the lexeme has properties with respect to two inXectional dimensions,
number and case. These two inXectional dimensions for nouns are found in
many languages. The dimensions are referred to as morphosyntactic categor-
ies because they may play a role both in morphology and in syntax. For each
dimension or category, there is more than one value. In the case of Polish
nouns, there are two values for number: singular and plural, and seven
diVerent values for case: nominative, genitive, dative, accusative, instru-
mental, locative, and vocative. These values are referred to as morphosyn-
tactic features. A particular cell in the paradigm of kot is thus Wlled with a
word form with a speciWc set of morphosyntactic features. The nominative
plural form koty ‘‘cats’’ can be represented as follows:
(1) kot-y number: plural
case: nominative
Another category of words that plays a prominent role in inXection are
verbs, which are often inXected for categories such as tense, aspect, and
5.1 InXectional properties 99
5.2 The roles of inXection 103
5.3 InXection and derivation 112
5.4 Theoretical models 115
5.5 Morpheme order 119
Summary 122
Questions 122
Further reading 124
mood. Some of us have been introduced to this kind of inXectional morph-
ology through textbooks on Latin that present the whole set of verbal
forms in a number of paradigms. A part of the paradigm of laudare ‘‘to
praise’’ as presented in such textbooks is given in Table 5.1 (the macron
over the vowel letter indicates length). The three labels present, imperfect,
and perfect are the traditional labels for these Latin verbal forms (cf.
section 6.2). Each of these forms expresses a property for the categories
tense, aspect, and mood. For instance, the form laudat ‘‘he praises’’ has
the following values for these three verbal categories (in addition, it has
values for the number and person of the subject of this verb):
(2) laud-at tense: present
aspect: imperfective
mood: indicative
number: singular
person: 3
The following list presents a (non-exhaustive) survey of the diVerent
types of morphosyntactic information that are found as morphological
markings on nouns, verbs, and adjectives in the languages of the world:
(3) Nouns: Number (singular, plural, dual, etc.), Case (nominative, genitive,
accusative, etc.), DeWniteness, Gender;
Verbs: Tense (present, past, future), Aspect (imperfective, perfective, etc.),
Mood (indicative, subjunctive, imperative, etc.), Voice (active, passive, etc.),
Number (singular, plural, etc.), Person (Wrst, second, third), Gender;
Adjectives: Degree (positive, comparative, superlative), Number, Gender,
Case, DeWniteness.
The category Voice for verbs comprises distinctions such as that between
active and passive voice. The Latin word laudat belongs to the active voice,
Table 5.1. Indicative forms of the Latin verb laudāre
indicative present indicative imperfect indicative perfect
1sg laudō laudābam laudāvi
2sg laudās laudābas laudāvisti
3sg laudat laudābat laudāvit
1pl laudāmus laudābāmus laudāvimus
2pl laudātis laudābātis laudāvistis
3pl laudant laudābant laudāvērunt
100 inflection
but Latin also has special verbal forms with a passive interpretation such as
laudātur ‘‘he is praised’’.
The category Degree for adjectives comprises the positive, comparative,
and superlative degree, as in English happy–happier–happiest. Some
languages also have an equative form for adjectives, as is the case for
Finnish (Sulkala and Karjalainen 1992: 172):
(4) Jukka on Peka-n pit-uinen
Jukka be.3sg Pekka-gen long-equative
‘‘Jukka is of the same length as Pekka’’
In addition, the form of an adjective may be determined by a relation of
agreement with its head noun and determiner with respect to properties
such as deWniteness, gender, number, and case.
An additional distinction in the domain of verbal inXection is that
between Wnite forms, which are inXected for the categories tense, number,
and person, versus inWnite (or non-Wnite) forms such as inWnitives, gerunds,
and participles. The following Dutch sentences illustrate the use of inWnitive
and participle forms:
(5) a. Jan wil kom-en
John want.pres.3sg come-inf
‘‘John wants to come’’
b. Huil-end vertrok hij
cry-pres.ptcp leave.past.3sg he
‘‘He left crying’’
As you can see, these non-Wnite verbs are used in sentences that have a Wnite
verbal form as well. Their actual use is a matter of complex syntactic
principles, and will not be discussed here.
A remarkable property of these non-Wnite forms is that they do not only
have verbal properties, but also properties of other lexical categories such
as nouns and adjectives. For instance, inWnitives can be described as
nominal forms of verbs. In some languages, they may be preceded by a
determiner or a preposition, and they may function as the head of NPs, as
illustrated here for the Dutch inWnitive:
(6) a. Jan houdt van het lez-en van poëzie
John likes of the read-inf of poetry
‘‘John likes reading poetry’’
inflection 101
b. Jan houdt van lez-en
John likes of read-inf
‘‘John likes reading’’
The English word reading in the gloss of sentence (6a) is an example of a
gerund form. As shown by the phrase John’s reading poetry ‘‘the reading of
poetry by John’’, gerunds, like inWnitives, have nominal properties: the
preceding noun John has the same form John’s that we Wnd in the phrase
John’s book. At the same time, this gerund form still has verbal properties: it
combines with the preposition-less complement poetry. The occurrence with
preposition-less complements is a characteristic feature of verbs. When one
adds a complement to a noun, that complement has to be preceded by a
preposition, as in John’s love of poetry where the preposition of has to
precede the complement noun poetry (*John’s love poetry is illformed).
Participles are verbal forms that can be used as adjectives, and are also
inXected as such in relevant syntactic contexts. In the German example in
(7) below, the present participle has the adjectival ending -e that is required
for attributive adjectives in deWnite NPs with a masculine head noun
(Haspelmath 1996: 44):
(7) Der im Wald laut sing-end-e Wanderer
the in.the forest loud sing-pres.ptcp-e hiker
‘‘the hiker who is singing loud in the forest’’
A less known non-Wnite verbal form with adverbial properties is the
converb. Converbs are verbal forms used as adverbs, as in the following
sentence from Kannada, a Dravidian language (Haspelmath 1996: 50):
(8) Yaar-ig-uu heel-ade eke bande
who-dat-indef say-neg.cvb why come.pret.2sg
‘‘Why did you come without telling anyone?’’
What is remarkable about these non-Wnite forms is that their inXection
appears to be category-changing, from verb to noun, adjective, or adverb,
without erasing the verbal properties of these forms. This is remarkable
because, typically, inXection does not aVect the syntactic category of a
word, unlike derivation.
In many languages, nouns and verbs are classiWed into a number of
inXectional classes, called declensions in the case of nouns and adjectives,
and conjugations in the case of verbs. These declensions and conjugations do
not express morphosyntactic properties themselves, but determine how
102 inflection
such properties are expressed. Latin, for instance, has Wve declension
classes for nouns that determine number and case marking, as illustrated
in (9) for the singular forms in the nominative and genitive case:
(9) Class nom.sg gen.sg Words with the same inXectional pattern
I mensa ‘‘table’’ mensae puella ‘‘girl’’, colonia ‘‘colony’’
II hortus ‘‘garden’’ horti captivus ‘‘prisoner’’, buxus ‘‘buxus tree’’
III rex ‘‘king’’ regis onus ‘‘burden’’, civis ‘‘citizen’’
IV fructus ‘‘fruit’’ fructūs domus ‘‘house’’, manus ‘‘hand’’
V diēs ‘‘day’’ diēi rēs ‘‘thing’’, meridiēs ‘‘afternoon’’
Latin adjectives are also divided into declension classes, but there are only
three declensions for adjectives compared to Wve for nouns.
Latin is also a language with inXectional classes in the verbal domain. It has
four conjugations for its verbs, with diVerent thematic vowels after the verbal
root. The forms listed in Table 5.1 above all have a thematic vowel a (except
laudō, where the thematic vowel is absent before the ending ō). Thus, laudāre
belongs to the conjugation of ā-verbs. Examples of verbs of the three other
conjugations are delēre ‘‘to delete’’, emere ‘‘to buy’’, and audı̄re ‘‘to hear’’.
5.2 The roles of inflection
Consider the following German sentence that illustrates the roles of inXec-
tion in constructing a sentence of German:
(10) Der Vater putz-t sein-er
the.masc.sg.nom father.masc.sg.nom brush-pres.3sg his-fem.sg.dat
Tochter die Schuh-e
daughter.fem.sg.dat the.pl.acc shoe.masc-pl.acc
‘‘The father brushes the shoes for his daughter’’
The words Vater, Tochter, and Schuhe are marked for number. The Wrst
two nouns are marked as singular, the last one as plural. These three nouns
are also marked for case. Since der Vater ‘‘the father’’ is the subject of the
sentence, it must be marked with nominative case. The noun Tochter
‘‘daughter’’ has to be marked with dative case, because seiner Tochter
functions as indirect object of the sentence. Finally, the noun Schuh-e has
the accusative form since die Schuhe functions as the direct object of this
inflection 103
sentence. The case marking of these nouns is obviously determined by the
syntactic contexts in which they occur, and hence we call this contextual
inXection. It stands in contrast with the number marking for these nouns,
which is not determined by the syntactic context. The choice of a particular
number is determined by what information the speaker wants to convey,
and we therefore call it inherent inXection. The present tense on the verb is
also a case of inherent inXection: it is a matter of free choice: the verb could
as well have appeared with a diVerent tense. Below, we will see that the
distinction between inherent and contextual inXection plays an important
role in analysing morphological systems.
The basic role of contextual inXection is to mark the relationship
between a head and a dependent in a syntactic construction. Two basic
types of dependency must be distinguished: government and agreement. Let
us Wrst focus on government.
In languages with case systems, the verb assigns a certain case to each of
its dependent NPs such as the subject, the object, and the indirect object.
This is illustrated by the German sentence (10), and also by the following
Latin sentence, (25) from Chapter 2:
(11) Manu-s manu-m lava-t
hand-nom.sg hand-acc.sg wash-3sg
‘‘One hand washes the other’’
It is the verb that is the head of the clause since the verb determines that
there must be a subject and, in this case, an object. The case markings in
sentences (10) and (11) are instances of dependent marking since the syn-
tactic relations between the verb and the nouns are marked on the depend-
ents. This kind of dependent marking is a case of government. We speak of
government when a constituent imposes requirements on a related con-
stituent. In the example (11), the verb requires speciWc case markings on its
subject and object. The verb itself, however, bears no corresponding case
markings, and that is why we qualify this kind of case marking as govern-
ment. In contrast, in the case of agreement both constituents involved
are marked for the relevant inXectional properties. For instance, in the
phrase seiner Tochter in (10) the head noun Tochter and the dependent
modiWer seiner have the same dative case, and hence the inXection of
seiner is an instance of agreement rather than government.
The speciWc case form of the head noun of a noun phrase not only marks
its dependency on the verb, but also indicates a speciWc semantic relation
104 inflection
of the noun phrase to the verb. In (11), the NP manus denotes the Agent of
the verb lavāre ‘‘to wash’’, whereas manum ‘‘hand’’ denotes the Patient that
undergoes the action. When the verb governs an NP with the role of
recipient, this NP will be marked by means of the dative case, as in (10).
These cases are called structural cases or direct cases. They stand inopposition
to inherent or semantic cases. Semantic case is illustrated by the following
Latin sentence in which the ablative case is used for creating the adverbial
instrumental phrase ‘‘with a knife’’, whereas the accusative case is a
structural case, and marks the direct object ‘‘the bread’’:
(12) Cultr-o pan-em secat
knife-sg.abl bread-sg.acc cuts
‘‘He cuts the bread with a knife’’
The non-nominative structural cases are sometimes called the oblique cases.
These are the cases that are required by a speciWc syntactic structure (accusa-
tive and dative case), whereas the nominative is the case form that may also be
used without a speciWc syntactic context, for instance as a citation form.
The assignment of case may be lexically governed, and is called lexical
case. Accusative case is the default case that an NP with the syntactic
function of direct object will receive. Verbs may, however, require another
case on their object-NP. For instance, in eighteenth-century German, the
verb kennen ‘‘to know’’ marked its object with genitive case. A famous
sentence from Bach’s Matthew’s Passion sung by Petrus is (13a); its form
in present-day German is (13b):
(13) a. Ich kenne de-s Mensch-en nicht
I know the-masc.gen.sg man-masc.gen.sg not
‘‘I do not know the man’’
b. Ich kenne de-n Mensch-en nicht
I know the-masc.acc.sg man-masc.acc.sg not
‘‘I do not know the man’’
In (13a) the object is marked as genitive. In present-day German this lexical
marking with genitive case for the object of the verb kennen ‘‘to know’’ has
disappeared, and hence the default accusative case is assigned. The German
verb trauen ‘‘to trust’’ requires dative case on its object, as in Wir trauen ihm
‘‘We trust him’’, with the dative form ihm of the 3sg personal pronoun.
Case forms that are used in structural case assignment may also function as
semantic cases. For instance, Romam, the accusative form of the Latin noun
inflection 105
Roma, can be used as a directional phrase with the meaning ‘‘to Rome’’, as in
Eo Romam ‘‘I go to Rome’’. Both in Latin and German, the accusuative case
is also used to mark durational phrases, as in German:
(14) Wir laufen den ganz-en Tag
we walk the.masc.acc.sg whole-masc.acc.sg day.masc.acc.sg
‘‘We walk the whole day’’
The durational phrase den ganzen Tag has the accusative form.
Another well-known case of dependent marking in Indo-European lan-
guages is that prepositions govern the choice of case form of the noun with
which they combine. German prepositions can be classiWed according to
the kind of case marking they require on their dependent nouns. For
instance, the following German prepositions always require accusative
case: für ‘‘for’’, durch ‘‘through’’, bis ‘‘until’’, gegen ‘‘against’’, ohne ‘‘with-
out’’, and um ‘‘around’’. Other German prepositions appear with either
dative or accusative case, depending on the meaning expressed:
(15) a. Ich stecke die Zeitung hinter den Spiegel
I put the newspaper behind the.acc.sg mirror
‘‘I put the newspaper behind the mirror’’
b. Die Zeitung steckt hinter dem Spiegel
the newspaper is behind the.dat.sg mirror
‘‘The newspaper is behind the mirror’’
Although prepositions govern their NP-complement with respect to case,
in some cases there is a choice, which depends on the particular semantic
relation between the verb and the preposition. If the verb stecken ‘‘to put’’
denotes an action (15a), the preposition hinter requires accusative case, if it
expresses a state (15b), the same preposition hinter requires dative case.
Nouns may require a particular marking on their dependent. In the
phrase John’s house the dependent NP John is marked as such through
the presence of the possessive marker s, whereas the head noun house is not
marked for this syntactic relationship. In languages with genitive case, this
case is typically used for marking relations between nouns.
In some languages it is not the dependent, but the head that is morpho-
logically marked for standing in a syntactic relationship to its dependent.
For instance, in Hungarian, marking is on the head (Nichols 1986: 57):
(16) az ember ház-a
the man house-3sg
‘‘the man’s house’’
106 inflection
Semitic languages are well known for their head marking patterns: the head
noun of an NP has often a special phonological form when it is followed
by a dependent NP. The word bayit ‘‘house’’ in Modern Hebrew has the
form beyt when followed by an NP-complement like sefer ‘‘book’’
(Borer 1988: 50):
(17) beyt sefer
house book
‘‘school’’
This special form of the head noun is called the construct state since it
appears when the noun is in construction with another noun. In this case,
the head is marked by means of allomorphy, instead of by an additional
morpheme.
The second main type of contextual inXection besides government
is agreement (also called concord). In many Indo-European languages
attributive adjectives agree with respect to a number of morphosyntactic
properties with their head nouns, as is illustrated by the following examples
(Latin and Hebrew are adapted from Barlow and Ferguson 1988: 3, 5). The
nouns function as the source of the shared property, the adjectives and
determiners as the targets.
(18) a. Latin: acta vir-orum omni-um bon-orum
deeds man.masc-pl.gen all-pl.gen good-masc.pl.gen
‘‘deeds of all good men’’
b. Hebrew: ha-isha ha-tov-a
the-woman. fem.sg the-good-fem.sg
‘‘the good woman’’
c. Dutch: het oud-e paard
the.def.sg.neut old-def.sg.neut horse.sg.neut
‘‘the old horse’’
d. French: les femme-s enchanté-e-s
the women.fem-pl delighted-fem-pl
‘‘the delighted women’’
In these examples it is the dependent adjective that is marked for properties
of the head noun with respect to case, number, and gender. In the Hebrew
and the Dutch case, the feature definite of the noun phrase assigned by the
determiners ha and het respectively, is also expressed on the adjective.
Example (18a) shows that in agreement contexts both inherently and con-
textually determined morphosyntactic properties can be expressed on the
inflection 107
constituent that has to be marked. In addition to the inherent inXectional
features masculine and plural, the contextually determined genitive
case marking of the head noun vir ‘‘man’’ is also expressed on the following
quantiWer and adjective.
In some languages, such as those of the Indo-European family, there is
no direct morphological marking of gender on nouns. For such languages,
we only observe direct morphological eVects of gender on the form of
dependent adjectives and determiners. In French, the gender of a noun
(masculine or feminine) manifests itself in the choice of the sg
articles (indeWnite un or une, deWnite le or la), and in the form of the
adjective (suYx -e in feminine forms), but not in the inXectional form of
the noun itself. At Wrst sight, it may seem as if nouns in languages such as
Latin do express gender in their inXectional form. For instance, most Latin
nouns ending in -a are feminine. Yet, the ending -a is no direct marking of
gender, but is characteristic for a speciWc declension class of Latin nouns,
and there is a correlation between declension class and gender: most nouns
of the -a declension class are feminine. Words such as nauta ‘‘sailor’’ and
poeta ‘‘poet’’, however, are masculine notwithstanding the presence of the
ending -a, as we can tell from gender agreement. It is nauta bonus ‘‘the good
sailor’’ where bonus is the masc.sg.nom form, not *nauta bona.
When gender of nouns manifests itself indirectly, it is perhaps more
appropriate to consider the marking of gender on adjectives as a case of
government (instead of agreement), parallel to the government of speciWc
case forms of nouns by adpositions. For instance, we do not say that the
German preposition durch itself has accusative case, and that the noun
governed by it agrees with respect to case. Rather, we say that durch
requires a speciWc case form of the noun. Similarly, we might say that a
masculine noun selects a masculine form of its adjective and determiner.
Dependent marking is also found on relative pronouns that function as
the subject of a relative clause. In Dutch, for instance, these pronouns have
to agree in number and gender with their antecedents:
(19) a. de jongen die ziek is
the boy.masc.sg who ill is
‘‘the boy who is ill’’
b. het meisje dat ziek is
the.neut.sg.def girl.neut.sg who.neut.sg ill is
‘‘the girl who is ill’’
108 inflection
Theinterlinearmorphemicglossingintheexamples(19)showsthatagreement
is not a matter of identity of features, but of non-contradictoriness offeatures.
The relative pronoun die can be used for non-neuter singular antecedents, and
for all plural antecedents. It is only the relative pronoun dat that has a speciWc
feature set, neutral and singular. The pronoun die is used in all other
cases. It is the default form, and hence it is unspeciWed for the categories
gender and number. The same applies to the article het which is only used
in definite sg.neut NPs, whereas de is the default article for deWnite NPs.
These examples also illustrate that agreement is not always marked by
means of morphology, but may also be marked through the choice of a
speciWc lexical item (in this example die or dat). This was also the case for
the Hebrew construct state in (17), a case of government. This is in
particular true for pronouns, which often have diVerent lexemes for diVer-
ent morphosyntactic properties. The examples in (19) also illustrate that
‘gender’ is primarily a formal, and not a semantic category: the word meisje
‘‘girl’’ denotes a person of the female sex, yet it is a neuter noun that selects
the neuter relative pronoun.
As illustrated by the Dutch sentence (18c), the feature (in)definite may
play a role in agreement between an adjective and its head noun. In
German, attributive adjectives have two patterns of contextual inXection,
traditionally called weak inXection and strong inXection. In weak inXection
there are less formal diVerences between the cells of a paradigm than in
strong inXection. When an adjective is not preceded by an article, it is
subject to strong inXection. (When it is preceded by an indeWnite article it
has a slightly simpliWed form of strong inXection, called mixed inXection.)
After a deWnite article it has weak inXection. This is illustrated here for NPs
with nominative case, where there is no diVerence between strong and
mixed inXection (Eisenberg 1994: 235):
(20) strong heiss-er Tee hot-masc.nom.sg tea.masc.nom.sg ‘‘hot tea’’
heiss-e Suppe hot-fem.nom.sg soup.fem.nom.sg ‘‘hot soup’’
heiss-es Wasser hot-neut.nom.sg water.neut.nom.sg ‘‘hot water’’
weak der heiss-e Tee the hot-masc.nom.sg tea.masc.nom.sg ‘‘the hot
tea’’
die heiss-e Suppe the hot-fem.nom.sg soup.fem.nom.sg ‘‘the hot
soup’’
das heiss-e Wasser the hot-neut.nom.sg water.neut.nom.sg ‘‘the
hot water’’
inflection 109
As the examples show, there are more formal diVerences in the adjectival
forms of strong inXection than in those of weak inXection.
Agreement is not always a case of dependent marking, as we saw above.
A frequent type of agreement in Indo-European languages is subject–verb
agreement. The relevant morphosyntactic properties are those of number and
person. This is a case of head marking since the verb is the head, and the
subject is the dependent. Subject–verb agreement is therefore an exception to
the tendency for Indo-European languages to have dependent marking rather
than head marking. Subject–verb agreement is illustrated by the Latin sen-
tence (11): the form lavat agrees in number and person with the subject manus.
Head marking in Indo-European languages can also be illustrated by
quantiWers that denote a quantity higher than 1. These quantiWers require
the plural form of the head noun if it is countable, as in English two books.
This is a case of government in which the number of nouns (normally a case
of inherent inXection) plays a role in contextual inXection. In the non-
Indo-European language Hungarian, on the other hand, the noun in such
phrases is forbidden to have a plural marking, and the whole noun phrase
behaves as singular with respect to verb agreement (Corbett 2000: 211):
(21) Két lény beszé
two girl.sg chat.sg
‘‘two girls are chatting’’
In several Slavonic languages, numerals require speciWc morphological mark-
ings on their nouns. For instance, the Russian numerals for 2, 3, and 4 require
the nouns with which they combine to appear in the genitive singular form.
In some languages the verb is not only marked for the properties of its
subject, but also for its dependent NPs such as the accusative or dative
object, as illustrated here for the Austronesian language Kambera spoken
on the island of Sumba, Indonesia (Klamer 1998: 63):
(22) a. (Na tau wútu) na-palu-ka (nyungga)
the person be.fat 3sg.nom-hit-1sg.acc I
‘‘the big man hit me’’
b. (I ama) na-kei-nya ri
art father 3sg.nom-buy-3pl.dat vegetable
‘‘Father buys them vegetables’’
The parts of these sentences that are between parentheses can be omitted.
Therefore, the aYxes on the verb are best interpreted as pronominal aYxes
110 inflection
that indicate the subject and the object of the verb. These aYxal pronouns
can then be said to have a relation of co-reference with the NPs in the
sentence. In other words, you might paraphrase a sentence such as (22a)
as ‘As to the big man and me, he hit me’. Such sentences are therefore
comparable to an English sentence such as John, he hit it, the ball.
In a number of languages with subject–verb agreement, the subject with
which the verb is supposed to agree in person and number can be absent. For
instance, the Latin verb form laudat in (2) can function as a sentence by itself,
with the meaning ‘‘he praises’’. Thus, the verb form suYces to identify the
number and person of the subject of a clause. That is, the choice of one and
the same inXectional form is sometimes determined by syntactic context, as in
Carolus laudat ‘‘Charles praises’’ (where the verbal form has to agree in
person and number with the subject Carolus), whereas in other cases that
choice is not required by another element in the syntactic context, as in the
sentence Laudat ‘‘He praises’’. The same observation can be made for gender
agreement in French. In this language, predicatively used adjectives must
agree in gender with the subject, as illustrated in the following sentences:
(23) a. Mon mari est heureux
My.masc.sg husband.masc.sg is happy.masc.sg
b. Ma tante est heureus-e
My.fem.sg aunt.fem.sg is happy-fem.sg
c. Je suis heureux
I am happy.sg.masc
d. Je suis heureus-e
I am happy-sg.fem
In (23a, b) the features of the subject are imposed on the adjective. In (23c, d)
on the other hand, the pronoun je ‘‘I’’ has no inherent features for gender,
and the gender expressed on the adjective reXects the gender pragmatically
assigned to the subject je. These facts suggest that agreement should not be
interpreted as the transfer of certain features from one word or constituent
to another, but as a checking device that checks if the features of the
constituents in the relevant syntactic conWguration do not contradict each
other. In (23a, b) the features are identical, and hence non-contradictory.
In (23c, d) the features of je are non-contradictory (though not identical) to
those of the predicate: je has no speciWcation for gender, whereas the
predicative adjectives do have such a speciWcation.
An eVect of agreement is to indicate which words belong together in a
phrase. This may have the eVect that constituent words of a phrase with
inflection 111
agreement can be separated by other words, as is frequently the case in
Latin texts. In the following example, the complement mundi separates the
adjective and the head noun with which it agrees in gender, number and
case (Virgil, Georgics 1.5):
(24) O clar-issim-a mund-i lumin-a
O clear-superl-neut.pl.voc world-gen.sg light-neut.pl.voc
‘‘O, clearest lights of the earth’’
Australian languages such as Warlpiri are also well-known for this kind of
freedom in word order, made possible by the case-marking system. Both case
marking and agreement patterns make it possible for a language to have more
or less free word order because they may serve to Wnd out which words belong
together, and which function they have. However, this is not an automatic
consequence: the presence of rich inXection does not necessarily imply that a
language has free word order. German, for instance, has pretty rigid word
order principles notwithstanding its rich case and agreement system.
Contextual inXection introduces a large degree of redundancy, and it may
therefore come as no surprise that contextual inXection erodes much more
frequently in the course of history than inherent inXection. The Romance
languages French, Italian, and Spanish, descendants of Latin, all kept the
number distinction for nouns, whereas these languages no longer have case
markings on nouns. Afrikaans has lost its verbal endings for number and
person(contextualinXection),whereasithaskeptthetensedistinctionbetween
present and past. This shows that the distinction between inherent and con-
textual inXection is important for understanding patterns of language change.
5.3 Inflection and derivation
As we saw in Chapter 1, the primary distinction between inXection and
derivation is a functional one: derivation creates new lexemes, and inXec-
tion serves to create diVerent forms of the same lexeme. Yet, this is not
always suYcient to determine in concrete cases of morphology to which
domain a particular morphological form belongs. Consider English com-
paratives. How do we know if bigger is a diVerent lexeme than big, or
another form of the lexeme big?
We might deWne inXection as ‘the kind of morphology that is relevant
to syntax’. According to that demarcation criterion, the morphological
112 inflection
properties that play a role in agreement and government are clear cases of
inXection. This comprises all contextual inXection, but also those morpho-
logical properties of words that function as controllers for this kind
of inXection. The marking of number on nouns is often not an instance of
contextual inXection itself, but it may play a role in determining the shape of
adjectives and determiners with which it combines. Note, however, that we
cannot say that derivation is completely irrelevant to syntax. For example,
when we create causative verbs by means of derivation, we create transitive
verbs, and transitivity is certainly a property that is relevant to syntax.
A second possible criterion is that inXection is obligatory, whereas deriv-
ation is optional. This criterion does apply to contextual inXection, but at Wrst
sight not always to inherent inXection. In the case of verbal conjugation,
inXection is always obligatory: you have to choose a speciWc form of a verb
in a clause. This seems not to apply to nouns: a noun can be used without any
morphological marking for number. In fact, for many nouns the need for a
plural form will (almost) never arise, as is the case for the English nouns
attention, accordance, and adolescence. However, one may claim that English
words are always inXectedfor therelevantcategoriesbecausean English noun
is always either singular or plural. After all, these latter three nouns behave as
singular nouns in subject–verb agreement. So these nouns are singular ‘‘by
default’’. In this sense, inXection for number is indeed obligatory in English.
An important criterion that might distinguish inXection from derivation
is the essential role of the paradigm in inXection. The cells of the paradigm
are deWned by the inXectional categories of a particular word class. In
Chapter 6 the role of paradigms in making morphological generalizations
is discussed. A clear example of the role of paradigms can be found
in periphrasis. We have to do with periphrasis if for certain cells of the
paradigm no synthetic morphological form is available. Instead, a combin-
ation of words, an analytic or periphrastic form, has to be used. Latin has no
synthetic forms for the perfective passive of verbs, as illustrated in Table 5.2
for the 3sg forms of laudāre ‘‘to praise’’. The cells for the perfective passive
are a combination of the passive participle (that, like adjectives, agrees with
the subject of the clause with respect to case, gender, and number) and
a form of the verb esse ‘‘to be’’. If these word combinations were not
considered part of the verbal paradigm, Latin verbs would have a paradigm
with a gap for the perfective passive forms. These periphrastic forms have a
perfective interpretation, although the forms of the verb esse ‘‘to be’’ are
that of the imperfect tense.
inflection 113
An additional argument for considering these word combinations as
Wlling paradigm cells is the following. Latin has a number of so-called
deponent verbs, verbs with a passive form but an active meaning. For
instance, the verb loquor ‘‘to speak’’ is such a deponent verb. The crucial
observation is that a word-sequence such as locutus est receives an
active interpretation as well, and means ‘‘he has spoken’’. This parallelism
in interpretation as active forms is to be expected if these analytic forms
belong to the inXectional paradigm of verbs.
The notion ‘suppletion’ also presupposes the idea of a paradigm. We
speak about the grammatical words am, are, is, was, and were as forms of
the English lexeme be although they are quite diVerent in phonological
shape, and show (almost) no phonological relatedness. These words Wll
speciWc cells in the paradigm of to be. The same applies to worse, the
suppletive comparative form of bad.
A fourth criterion for distinguishing inXection and derivation is that
derivation may feed inXection, but not vice versa. Derivation applies to
the stem-forms of words, without their inXectional endings, and creates
new, more complex stems to which inXectional rules can be applied. This is
the main reason for keeping the two kinds of morphology distinct. It is a
cross-linguistic generalization that inXection is peripheral with respect to
derivation, formulated by Greenberg as follows:
(25) ‘Universal 28. If both the derivation and inXection follow the root, or they
both precede the root, the derivation is always between the root and the
inXection’ (Greenberg 1963:93).
Greenberg’s universal excludes the morpheme order patterns *Derivation–
InXection–Root and *Root–InXection–Derivation. It might also be
Table 5.2. Imperfective and perfective 3 sg forms of laudāre
imperfective active passive
present laudat laudātur
past laudābat laudābātur
future laudābit laudābitur
perfective active passive
present laudāvit laudātus/a/um est
past laudāverat laudātus/a/um erat
future laudāverit laudātus/a/um erit
114 inflection
interpreted as saying that derivation cannot apply to inXected forms. Yet,
there are exceptions to this universal tendency, cases in which inXectional
forms appear to feed derivation. For instance, the comparative form of
some Dutch adjectives has functioned as the base for derivation with the
preWx ver-, as in
(26) erg-er ‘‘worse’’ [ver-[erg-er]A]V ‘‘to worsen’’
oud-er ‘‘older’’ [ver-[oud-er]A]V ‘‘to get older’’
Strictly speaking, this morphological pattern is not excluded by Green-
berg’s Universal 28 because the derivational morpheme is a preWx, and the
inXectional morpheme is a suYx. A real exception to this universal is the use
of verbal participles (which may function as adjectives) for de-adjectival
word-formation, which is quite common in Indo-European languages. For
example, English past participles show up in de-adjectival word-formation,
as in aVect-ed-ness and relat-ed-ness. Here we Wnd the ‘‘wrong’’ order Root–
InXection–Derivation, since -ed is an inXectional suYx, and -ness a deriv-
ational one. However, this kind of de-inXectional word-formation is only
found with instances of inherent inXection such as comparatives and
participles as bases.
Another demarcation criterion that might be invoked is that derivation is
potentially category-changing, unlike inXection. Although it is true that
most cases of inXection do not change syntactic category, there is a change
of category involved for inWnitives, gerunds, participles, and converbs,
which keep their verbal potential, but also have properties of other syntac-
tic categories (section 5.1).
In sum, the best criteria for distinguishing inXection from derivation are
the obligatoriness of inXection, the fact that it is organized by means of
paradigms, and that it is normally a word without its inXectional endings
(¼ the stem) that forms the basis for word-formation. It will be clear that
the boundary between the two is not extremely sharp, and that there are
similarities between inherent inXection and derivation.
5.4 Theoretical models
The inXectional phenomena discussed above pose two speciWc questions
for the theory of grammar: (i) what is the best formal representation of
inXectional processes, and (ii) where in the grammar should inXectional
rules apply?
inflection 115
Let us Wrst focus on the formal nature of inXectional rules. For simple
cases, one might think of inXection as the attachment of inXectional mor-
phemes to the stem-forms of lexemes. For instance, in English we create
plural forms of nouns by suYxing the stem with the suYx -s. Similarly, past
tense forms of verbs are made by suYxation of the verbal stem with -ed.
Such cases of agglutinative morphology can therefore be dealt with in a
model in which morphology is seen as the concatenation of morphemes.
This model is called Item-and-Arrangement Morphology.
There are two basic problems for this model of inXection. The Wrst is that
in many languages there is no one-to-one relation between inXectional
properties and their expression by morphemes. Consider once more the
paradigm of the Polish noun kot in Chapter 2, repeated as (27) here for
(27) singular plural
nominative kot kot-y
genitive kot-a kot-ów
dative kot-u kot-om
accusative kot-a kot-y
instrumental kot-em kot-ami
locative koci-e kot-ach
vocative koci-e kot-y
convenience. Each inXectional suYx in this paradigm expresses features (is
an exponent) for two categories, number and case. There are no distinct
morphs for these two categories, and the inXectional endings are portman-
teau morphs. This is a case of cumulative exponence: each ending in the
paradigm of kot is the expression of more than one inXectional category
(the formal correlate of a morphological category is called its exponence).
There is also the opposite phenomenon that one inXectional category may
receive more than one morphological expression. This is illustrated by the
Latin word form laudāvisti in Table 5.1: the inXectional category perfect is
expressed by both the morpheme -vi- after the stem laudā and the selection
of a 2sg ending -isti that is unique to the perfect, and hence also expresses
this category. This is called extended exponence.
The second problem for an Item-and-Arrangement model of inXection
is that inXectional categories may be expressed by other means than mor-
pheme concatenation. In Germanic languages, for instance, the past tense
116 inflection
forms of so-called strong verbs are formed by changing the vowel of the
verbal stem (ablaut), not by suYxation.
These problems for the Item-and-Arrangement model have led to a diVer-
ent view of inXection in which inXectional rules are operations of various
sorts: aYxation, vowel change, reduplication, etc. This process-variant
of morphology is called Item-and-Process Morphology. Thus, the rule for
computing the pl.instr. form of Polish nouns like kot might be formulated
as follows:
(28) [x]N ! [x-ami]N[þpl:,instr]
This rule states that if we add the ending -ami to the stem form of a noun,
we thus create a noun with the features plural and instrumental.
A third model for inXection, which shares the processual view of morph-
ology with the model of Item-and-Process morphology, is the Word-and-
Paradigm model. This model takes the lexeme and its paradigm of cells as
its starting point. The diVerent forms of the paradigm of a lexeme are
computed by a set of realization rules. The realization rule for the instr.pl.
form of nouns like kot will have the following form:
(29) [x]N [þpl, instr] ! [x-ami]N
The diVerence between rule (28) and rule (29) is the following. Rule (28)
introduces a morphosyntactic property hand-in-hand with its exponent,
while rule (29) treats the property set as a precondition for the introduction
of its exponent. Rules such as (29) are therefore called realization rules or
spell out rules, and this kind of morphological analysis is called realizational
morphology.
One advantage of using the format of spell out rules for inXection is that
it can easily account for cases in which there is no overt phonological
expression for certain morphosyntactic features. In English and Dutch,
there is no overt ending for singular nouns. Yet, nouns must be speciWed for
number in order for agreement rules to apply properly. One might there-
fore assume a zero suYx or preWx for singular nouns, but this is an ad hoc
assumption. It is even impossible to determine if the zero is a preWx or a
suYx, since you cannot hear it. In a realization approach one can account
for this straightforwardly. Since the cell with the feature [ plural] of a
Dutch or English noun will not trigger a realization rule, the singular form
of the noun will be identical to the stem-form. This makes the introduction
of a zero aYx superXuous.
inflection 117
The basic analytical problem posed by inXectional systems discussed
above is that there is no neat mapping of form and (morphosyntactic)
content in a one-to-one-fashion. A related problem is that there is quite
often competition between diVerent realization rules for the same morpho-
syntactic content. In Germanic languages, for instance, the past tense form
of verbs is created either by vowel change, or by suYxation. In the case of
sing, with the past tense form sang, we have to take care that the grammar
will not specify its past tense form as singed. This will be achieved as
follows. The rule that applies to ablauting verbs such as sing will not only
be conditioned by the presence of the feature past tense, but also by the
diacritic feature [ablaut] that is assigned to these ablauting verbs in the
lexicon. A diacritic feature refers to an arbitrary class of lexical items. From
the synchronic point of view it is an arbitrary property of a verb that it
belongs to the class of verbs that makes use of vowel alternations to express
past tense. The additional presence of the feature [ablaut] in the condition
for vowel change makes this rule more speciWc than the rule for suYxation
with -ed, which only requires its inputs to be verbs. It is a generally accepted
idea in linguistics that, in the case of competition between two or more
rules, the more speciWc rule will be applied Wrst, and then pre-empts the
application of the more general rule. This is called Panini’s Principle, after
the Sanskrit grammarian Panini who introduced this idea.
Another theoretical model that should be mentioned here is that of
Distributed Morphology. This model is not process-based, but morpheme-
based: morphemes are the atoms of morphosyntactic representations, and
to that extent it is a (sophisticated) variant of Item-and-Arrangement
Morphology. At the syntactic level, the structure of a sentence is repre-
sented as a syntactic tree that includes abstract morphemes such as
[þplural], [þpast], etc. These abstract morphemes form terminal nodes in
the syntactic tree, just like lexical morphemes. The phonological content of
these morphemes is then spelt out through the insertion of vocabulary
items that specify the phonological correlate of an abstract morpheme.
An example of a vocabulary item is the English plural suYx /z/ for nouns
(as in dog–dogs):
(30) =z= $ [ _ ,þplural]
This vocabulary item states that the phonological piece /z/ can be inserted
in the context of the feature [þplural]. In this approach, there is no lexicon
that provides full words, to be used in syntactic structure. The task of
118 inflection
providing fully inXected words is distributed over other components of the
grammar, hence the name Distributed Morphology.
How does the model of Distributed Morphology deal with cumulative
exponence, the phenomenon that poses a problem for Item-and-Arrange-
ment Morphology? In such situations, in which one phonological piece
expresses a set of morphosyntactic features, the morphosyntactic tree will
be restructured before lexical insertion takes place. For instance, the abstract
morphemes for number and case in Latin and Polish may be fused into one
terminal node through a fusion rule. Subsequently, the vocabulary item that
matches with that feature combination is inserted, for instance the Latin
suYx -i for the nom. pl form of second declension nouns:
(31) =i=$ [ _ ,þplural,þnom]N, class II
In English plural nouns such as geese and men, the plurality is expressed by
vowel change, not by the addition of a morpheme. In Distributed Morph-
ology, this is taken care of by assuming a zero suYx for these plural nouns,
followed by the application of readjustment rules that perform phono-
logical operations triggered by the presence of the feature [þplural] for a
speciWed number of lexical items.
5.5 Morpheme order
The issue of morpheme order deserves special attention in the domain of
inXection. In the case of derivation the basic idea is that each morpho-
logical operation adds a new layer of structure, and a corresponding
semantic interpretation, as was illustrated in section 1.2 for the word tran-
quilizer, the morphological structure of which could be represented by
means of a hierarchical structure. In the domain of inXection, however, a
Xat structure might be more appropriate. When there are diVerent endings
for tense and for person, with the second ending being more peripheral,
there may be no particular reason for assuming a hierarchy in which
person is higher than tense. This is why some linguists assume that with
respect to inXection we have to do with a set of unordered features, and
why the expression ‘‘set of morphosyntactic features’’ is used. The order in
which inXectional elements appear is sometimes expressed by means
of templates. Well-known examples of languages with such templatic
morphology (also called position class morphology) are the Bantu languages.
inflection 119
For instance, the following (partial) template can be assumed for Bemba, a
Bantu language of Zambia:
(32) Negation—Subject marker—Tense—Aspect—Object marker—Stem—Final
vowel
This template is exempliWed by the following sentence (Kula 2002: 33):
(33) ta- tu- aku- laa- ba- bombel -a
neg subj.1pl fut progr obj work final vowel
‘‘We will not be working for them’’
The assumption of templates does not mean, however, that morpheme
order is completely arbitrary, and that there are no tendencies in the
ordering of inXectional morphemes. One clear generalization is that con-
textual inXection is peripheral to inherent inXection. Thus, in the case of
nouns, aYxes for case are peripheral to aYxes for number (Greenberg’s
Universal 39, Greenberg 1963: 95), and in the case of verbs person endings
tend to be peripheral to tense endings. A second generalization concerns
the order of morphemes of inherent inXection such as those for tense and
aspect. Generally, aspect morphemes appear closer to the root of a word
than tense morphemes (Bybee 1985).
If word-formation and inXection are indeed diVerent subsystems of
morphology, does this imply that they are located in diVerent parts of the
grammar? This is the second main issue for theoretical models of inXection:
where in the grammar is inXection?
One possible view is that word-formation is pre-syntactic, and inXection
is post-syntactic. Word-formation (compounding, derivation, etc.) serves
to enlarge the set of lexical items that can be inserted into syntactic
structure. InXection, on the other hand, may be claimed to be post-syntactic
because the speciWc form of a lexeme may depend on its syntactic context
(contextual inXection). This is the split morphology model:
(34) word-formation ! syntax ! inXection
However, the dependency of inXection on syntax does not necessarily
imply that inXection is post-syntactic. The alternative view is that the
morphological component of the grammar computes new lexemes and
the diVerent inXectional forms of lexemes, the theory of strong lexicalism:
(35) morphology ! syntax
120 inflection
Rules of contextual inXection like those of agreement will then have the
function of checking mechanisms: they check if the morphosyntactic fea-
tures of the words in a particular syntactic conWguration can go together.
If not, the sentence is qualiWed as ungrammatical. For instance, if we insert
the word form books with the feature [þ plural] in the context—is interest-
ing, we get the ungrammatical sentence *Books is interesting. The English
rule of subject–verb agreement will Wnd a clash between the number
speciWcations of books and is, and hence, the grammar will qualify it as
an ungrammatical sentence. Moreover, as we saw above, the choice of a
particular inXected form like the French fem.sg adjective heureuse does not
always depend on the presence of a syntactic source for the feature [femi-
nine]. In Je suis heureuse ‘‘I am happy’’, this form is selected because the
speaker is female. Hence, it cannot be created post-syntactically through
agreement with the gender features of the subject, because the subject je is
unspeciWed for gender.
Another advantage of the strong lexicalist position is that we can
account for the fact that certain kinds of (inherent) inXection feed word-
formation. For instance, in many languages participles may function as
adjectives, and feed de-adjectival word-formation (as in English aVected-
ness). In the split morphology model it is impossible for inXectional forms
to be used as bases for word-formation since inXection is post-syntactic,
whereas word-formation comes before syntax.
An additional consideration for dealing with word-formation and inXec-
tion in the same component of the grammar is that derived words and
inXected forms of words may be subject to the same phonological rules or
constraints. These phonological regularities within words are referred to as
the lexical phonology of a language. For instance, all Dutch words are
subject to the rule that the vowel schwa [e] disappears before an adjacent
vowel. In the case of vowel-initial suYxes that trigger this schwa-deletion, it
does not matter if the suYx is inXectional or derivational in nature:
(36) derivation zijde-ig ‘‘silky’’ /zEØde-eg/ [zEidex]
inXection bode-en ‘‘messengers’’ /bo:de-en/ [bo:den]
The rule of schwa-deletion should not apply twice, both pre-syntactically
and post-syntactically, because that would complicate the grammar of
Dutch beyond necessity. This duplication would be necessary if we followed
the theory of split morphology, unless all phonology were post-syntactic.
In Chapter 7 it is shown that this latter position cannot be correct.
inflection 121
These considerations lead to the conclusion that morphology should not
be split into a pre-syntactic and a post-syntactic component, and that it is
only the strong lexicalist position that can do justice to the facts discussed
here.
Summary
InXection is the expression of morphosyntactic properties of lexemes. These
properties either serve to express a particular meaning (inherent inXection),
or are required in speciWc syntactic contexts (contextual inXection). In
contextual inXection the relation between two elements in a syntactic con-
Wguration is marked either on the head or on the dependent. Contextual
inXection indicates syntactic relationships between words. Word order also
has the function to indicate these relationships. Hence, a language with a
rich system of contextual inXection may have relatively free word order.
The main criterion for distinguishing inXection from derivation is that
only inXection is obligatory: each word must be speciWed for the relevant
inXectional properties of its word class. Each lexeme thus has a paradigm of
inXectional forms. It is normally the word without its inXectional endings
that forms the starting point for word-formation. However, certain types
of inherent inXection may feed derivation.
The complications in the relation between phonological form and mor-
phosyntactic properties have given rise to a number of theoretical models
that are alternatives to the Item-and-Arrangement model that analyses
(inXectional) morphology as morpheme concatenation. These alternative
models are processual models of inXection.
Questions
1. Give an explanation for the fact that the German phrase Guten Morgen
‘‘good morning’’ has the accusative form although there is no verb that
assigns accusative case to this phrase.
2. What are the rules for choosing between a synthetic and a periphrastic
expression of the comparative of the English adjective?
3. In English, the infinitival form of the verb is identical to that of the stem.
Is it therefore necessary to assume a zero ending for this form?
122 inflection
4. In Dutch we find compound pairs such as the following: school-gemeenschap
‘‘school community’’ versus schol-en-gemeenschap ‘‘schools community,
comprehensive school’’, and stads-raad ‘‘city council’’ versus sted-en-raad
‘‘cities’ council’’ (-en is a plural morpheme). Which conclusion can you draw
from the existence of such compounds about the relation between inflection
and word-formation?
5. Which kinds of inherent and contextual inflection can be observed in the
following Finnish sentence?
Anno-i-n vet-tä kahde-lle koira-lle
give-IMPF-1 SG water-PART two-ALL dog-ALL
‘‘I gave water to two dogs’’
6. Melčuk (2000: 515) gives the following examples of Russian male–female
noun pairs that he qualifies as suppletion: byk ‘‘bull’’ –korova ‘‘cow’’, petuch
‘‘rooster’’–kurica ‘‘hen’’. Do you think it makes sense to use the notion
‘‘suppletion’’ in the domain of word-formation?
7. Identify instances of cumulative and extended exponence in the following
forms of the Hebridian Gaelic word clach ‘‘stone’’ (Coates 2000: 623):
SG PL
NOM clach [khlax] clachan [klaxan]
GEN cloiche [khloçe] clachan [klaxan]
DAT cloich [khloç] clachan [klaxan]
8. Consider the following sentences from British English and American English
respectively:
The committee are investigating the case
The committee is investigating the case
What conclusion can you draw for the difference in specification of committee
between the lexicons of British and of American English?
9. French has two genders, masculine and feminine. The following French
noun phrases illustrate gender agreement between the head noun and the
following attributive adjective:
un père excellent
a.MASC.SG father.MASC.SG excellent.MASC.SG
‘‘an excellent father’’
une mère excellent-e
a.FEM.SG mother.FEM.SG excellent-FEM.SG
‘‘an excellent mother’’
une mère et une sœur excellent-e-s
a.FEM.SG mother.FEM.SG and a.FEM.SG sister.FEM.SG excellent-FEM-PL
‘‘an excellent mother and sister’’
un père et une mère excellent-s
a father.MASC.SG and a mother.FEM.SG excellent-MASC.PL
‘‘an excellent father and mother’’
inflection 123
Formulate the rule of ‘gender resolution’ that is needed to compute the
gender feature of the attributive adjective when the head of the phrase is
formed by two conjoined nouns.
10. Dutch has fifteen nouns with a plural suffix -eren instead of the regular -en,
for example kind-kinderen ‘‘child-children’’. The regular suffix for mono-
syllabic nouns is -en, as in boek-boeken ‘‘book(s)’’. Which principle can be
invoked to block the formation of *kinden?
Further reading
The distinction between inherent and contextual inflection has been made in
Anderson (1985) as the distinction between inherent and relational inflection;
the importance of this distinction for morphological theory is discussed in Booij
(1994, 1996a). Panini’s principle is discussed in Pinker (1999).
The Word-and-Paradigm model has been defended in a classic article by
Robins (1959), and in Matthews (1972). A survey and classification of inflec-
tional theories is given in Stump (2001: ch 1). Realization rules for inflection are
defended in Anderson (1992) and Stump (2001), which are detailed studies
within the Word-and-Paradigm approach. Börjars et al. (1997) and Sadler and
Spencer (2001) deal with the theoretical status of periphrasis.
Key publications on the model of Distributed Morphology are Halle (1992)
and Halle and Marantz (1993). A survey of the model is presented in Harley
and Noyer (2003).
The split morphology model is defended in Anderson (1992). Objections to
this model are raised in Booij (1994, 1996a).
Templatic morphology is discussed in Inkelas (1993), Rice (2000), and
Hyman (2003).
124 inflection
6
Inflectional systems
6.1 Nominal systems: gender, number, and case
The previous chapter has introduced you to the roles of inXection in con-
structing sentences, and its position in the grammar. In this chapter, we will
zoom in on the details of inXection. The formal regularities involved are
sometimes quite complicated. Moreover, the relationship between inXec-
tional forms and their semantic interpretation is not that straight-forward.
Thus, inXectional phenomena give a perfect illustration of how complex the
relation between form and meaning in natural languages can be.
Let us Wrst have a more detailed look at how inXection manifests itself in
the forms of nouns. The best known cases of noun inXection are the
marking on nouns of number and case properties. In an agglutinative
language such as Finnish, number and case are marked by means of
separate suYxes. In most languages, case markings are external to number
markings, in line with the generalization that contextual inXection tends to
be peripheral to inherent inXection. In Finnish, nouns have either singular
or plural number. As in many other languages, there is no overt marking
for the singular. The plural suYx is -t in the nominative form and -i
elsewhere. The latter suYx is realized as the glide [ j ] when it appears
between two vowels. A subset of plural case forms of the Finnish noun
kissa ‘‘cat’’ is given in (1) (Sulkala and Karjalainen 1992: 267):
6.1 Nominal systems:
gender, number, and case 125
6.2 Categories of verbal
inXection 133
6.3 Autonomous morphology 141
Summary 146
Questions 146
Further reading 149
(1) nom.pl kissa-t
gen.pl kisso-j-en
part.pl kisso-j-a
abl.pl kisso-i-lta
This example illustrates that both stems and aYxes in inXectional
forms may exhibit phonological variation of various kinds, a topic that is
discussed in Chapter 7.
The number system of English nouns has two characteristic features:
number marking is obligatory, and the only choice that we have is that
between singular and plural. For many languages, expression of number on
nouns is not obligatory. This is the case for Austronesian languages such as
Malay. Such languages have a general form for nouns which is unspeciWed
as to number, and stands outside the number system. Other languages might
express number obligatorily, but not on nouns. In Maori, for instance, it
is expressed on possessive markers and determiners only. Languages may
have more distinctions than just singular versus plural. In fact, cross-
linguistically, number marking is not restricted to the distinction between
singular and plural. Some languages also distinguish a dual form, referring
to precisely two entities, a trial form (three entities), or a paucal form
(referring to a few entities). There is a cross-linguistic hierarchy involved
here (Corbett 2000: 38):
(2) Number hierarchy: singular > plural > dual > trial
This hierarchy indicates that, if a language has a trial, it also has a dual and
if it has a dual, it also has a plural form, etc. The dual and trial may be
diVerent from the plural in not being obligatory. That is, in some cases, the
plural can be used for denoting a set of two and three entities respectively,
in addition to larger numbers of entities.
Bayso, a Cushitic language spoken in southern Ethiopia, exhibits optional
number marking: a noun can be used without any overt marking for number,
and then receives a general interpretation, as shown in the Wrst example in (3).
Thislanguagefeaturessingular,plural,andpaucalnumber(Corbett2000:11):
(3) lúban foofe
lion.general watched.1sg
‘‘I watched lion’’ (one or more than one)
lubán-titi foofe
lion-sg watched.1sg
‘‘I watched a lion’’
126 inflection
luban-jaa foofe
lion-paucal watched.1sg
‘‘I watched a few lions’’
luban-jool foofe
lion-pl watched.1sg
‘‘I watched (a lot of) lions’’
When a language has a number distinction for nouns, this is not necessarily
expressed on all nouns. In this respect, number marking is certainly not the
inXectional category par excellence, since we consider obligatoriness as
a relevant criterion for the demarcation of inXection and derivation
(section 5.3).
A second typological dimension of number marking is that languages
may diVer as to which nouns are marked for number. A language may
mark number on animate nouns only, or only on nouns that denote human
beings. The cross-linguistic variation involved obeys the Animacy Hierarchy
(Corbett 2000: 56):
(4) speaker > addressee > 3pers > kin > human > animate > inanimate
Each language can be characterized by a particular cut-oV point on this
hierarchy for number marking. For instance, it may be the case that in a
certain language only personal pronouns (all three persons) and nouns
denoting kinship relations are marked for number. This hierarchy can be
used to formulate certain constraints on the cross-linguistic variation found.
For instance, if the singular–plural distinction is made for animate nouns, it
will also be made for kinship nouns (but not necessarily vice versa).
In English, there is no overt morphological marking for singular, only
for plural. In other languages both singular and plural may be expressed
phonologically. The inverse situation, no overt marking for plurals, and
overt marking for singular forms is also found.
Number marking on nouns, although primarily a case of inherent inXec-
tion, may also be required by a speciWc syntactic context, in particular in
combination with number names. In English we must use the plural form of
nouns after number names higher than 1. In Finnish and Hungarian, on the
other hand, the singular form of a noun is required after such number
names.
Through agreement, number can also be marked on words of other word
classes such as adjectives, determiners, and verbs, as discussed in section
5.2. This kind of number marking is to be distinguished from inherent
inflectional systems 127
marking of number on verbs used to express the plurality of the event
denoted by the verbs, or the number of participants involved. The follow-
ing examples are from Ngiti (Kutsch Lojenga 1994: 285, transcription
simpliWed):
(5) ma m-i indri nadha
1sg sc-aux goat pull.nom1
‘‘I am pulling one goat, or a group of goats simultaneously’’
ma m-i indri nudha
1sg sc-aux goat pull.pl.nom1
‘‘I am pulling several goats one by one’’
(The plural verbal form here diVers from the unmarked form by having a
diVerent vowel.) This plural verbal form denotes that the action takes place
more than one time.
In languages with diVerent inXectional classes such as Latin (see Chapter 5,
example 9), number and case receive diVerent morphological markings
dependent on the inXectional class to which a noun belongs. This is also
illustrated by the inXectional paradigms of some Icelandic nouns of class
I (the default class) in Table 6.1. In these paradigms, three classiWcations of
nouns are involved in computing the form for each number–case combin-
ation: the distinction between weak and strong nouns, gender, and arbitrary
class markers. The words in Table 6.1 are all class I nouns, but there are three
Table 6.1. InXection of Icelandic class I nouns
masculine feminine neuter
strong weak strong weak strong weak
‘‘horse’’ ‘‘time’’ ‘‘needle’’ ‘‘tongue’’ ‘‘table’’ ‘‘eye’’
singular
nom hest-ur tı́m-i nál tung-a borð aug-a
acc hest tı́m-a nál tung-u borð aug-a
dat hest-i tı́m-a nál tung-u borð-i aug-a
gen hest-s tı́m-a nál-ar tung-u borð-s aug-a
plural
nom hest-ar tı́m-ar nál-ar tung-ur borð aug-u
acc hest-a tı́m-a nál-ar tung-ur borð aug-u
dat hest-um tı́m-um nál-um tung-um borð-um aug-um
gen hest-a tı́m-a nál-a tung-na borð-a aug-na
Source: Thráinsson 1994: 153.
128 inflection
other classes (for non-neuter nouns only) and some irregular nouns. The
phonological form of a noun may help to determine the (sub)class of a
noun. For instance, if the nom.sg form of a masculine noun ends in -i (as
in timi ‘‘time’’), it always follows the weak inXection pattern.
A closer look at the paradigms in Table 6.1 will reveal that the number of
diVerences between the paradigms of Icelandic class I nouns is restricted.
For instance, the dative plural marker is always -um, and the genitive
plural always ends in -a (with an additional n in tung-na and aug-na).
Another generalization is that all feminine and neuter nouns have the
same form for the nominative and the accusative, in the plural. That is,
the accusative forms can be computed by referring to the nominative
forms. To give another example of such paradigm regularities, in Russian
the accusative form is identical to the genitive form for most animate
nouns, and for inanimates, the accusative is like the nominative (Corbett
and Fraser 1993: 130). Such generalizations that refer to diVerent cells of a
paradigm are called rules of referral since one form can be computed by
referring to another form of the same paradigm. It is important to note that
rules of referral do not refer to word forms, but to diVerent cells in
the paradigm of a word. For instance, the following regularity holds
for the masculine nouns in Table 6.1: if the nominative plural form ends
in -ar, the accusative plural and the genitive plural end in -a. Rules of
referral underscore the important role of the paradigm as a pattern of cells,
each with it is own set of morpho-syntactic features.
When diVerent slots of a paradigm are Wlled by the same phonological
form, this is referred to as syncretism or inXectional homonymy. In Table 6.1
we see that the nominative and accusative plural forms of feminine and
neuter nouns of class I are always identical. This is a case of systematic
syncretism that may be expressed by the following rule of referral:
(6) [Noun, Class 1, Non-masc] ! [Nom ¼ Acc in Plural]
Rules of referral can thus be used to express systematic patterns of sync-
retism.
The classiWcation of nouns into diVerent genders is quite an intriguing
phenomenon because of its strong arbitrariness. Some Indo-European
languages have three genders: masculine, feminine, and neuter. Romance
languages such as Italian and French have lost the neuter gender, whereas
in the Germanic language Dutch there is only a distinction between neuter
and non-neuter gender (also called common gender). There is a relation
inflectional systems 129
between gender and biological sex, to be sure. If a language distin-
guishes between masculine and feminine gender, morphologically simplex
nouns denoting male and female beings tend to be masculine and feminine
respectively. But why are some nouns for body parts in Dutch neuter
(for instance, oog ‘‘eye’’), whereas others are non-neuter (for instance
neus ‘‘nose’’)? Linguists assume that originally there must have been some
semantic motivation behind the diVerent classes, a motivation that became
opaque in the course of history.
Morphological structure may also be involved in computing the gender
of a noun. The heads of nominal compounds, and most suYxes determine
the gender of the words they create. As we observed earlier, Dutch and
German diminutive nouns, for instance, are always neuter, even if they
denote male or female beings:
(7) Dutch het jonge-tje ‘‘the boy’’; German das Mütter-chen ‘‘the little mother’’
Another system of noun classes involved in the morphological expres-
sion of number is found in languages of Africa, in particular (but not
exclusively) Bantu languages. The examples in Table 6.2 illustrate the noun-
class system of Swahili. These data suggest that Swahili has six classes
(genders), each class being a particular pair of singular and plural forms.
The Wrst two singular (sub)classes look as if they are one class because
they have the same preWx m-. However, they correlate with two diVerent
plural preWxes. Moreover, they also behave diVerently in agreement.
This is illustrated by the pattern of subject agreement preWxes in the verbal
forms in (8), in which the nouns listed in Table 6.2 function as subjects,
and are followed by the verbal form mepotea ‘‘is/are lost’’ (Welmers
1973: 162):
Table 6.2. Noun classes in Swahili
singular plural
I m-tu wa-tu ‘‘person’’
II m-zigo mi-zigo ‘‘load’’
III Ø-tofali ma-tofali ‘‘brick’’
IV ki-tasa vi-tasa ‘‘lock’’
V n-dizi n-dizi ‘‘banana’’
VI u-bao m-bao ‘‘plank’’
Source: Welmers 1973: 161.
130 inflection
(8) singular plural
m-tu a-mepotea wa-tu wa-mepotea
m-zigo u-mepotea mi-zigo i-mepotea
Ø-tofali li-mepotea ma-tofali ya-mepotea
ki-tasa ki-mepotea vi-tasa vi-mepotea
n-dizi i-mepotea n-dizi zi-mepotea
u-bao u-mepotea m-bao zi-mepotea
The singular nouns m-tu and m-zigo select diVerent subject agreement
preWxes. Therefore, they must be treated as belonging to two diVerent
classes. Thus, as in the case of gender in Latin (remember nauta bonus in
section 5.2), classiWcation of nouns in these languages may have to be based
on agreement patterns rather than direct morphological properties.
The classiWcation of nouns in these languages may have some semantic
correlates.ClassIincludesmostpersonalnouns,classIInamesoftrees,plants,
andanumberofinanimateentities.ThesingularpreWxofclassIVisoftenused
for the names of languages. Thus, Swahili is also referred to as Ki-Swahili.
The noun-class system of Bantu languages is very important for agree-
ment patterns. A nice example of this pervasive agreement is the following
sentence from Swahili (Welmers 1973: 171):
(9) ki-kapu ki-kubwa ki-moja ki-lianguka
basket large one fell
‘‘One large basket fell’’
However, this kind of alliterative concord in Swahili is exceptional: it is not
necessarily the case that the same preWx appears on all agreeing constitu-
ents of a clause. In fact, it is only the class preWx for attributive modiWers
that always has the same preWx as the head noun. In other cases there are
diVerent preWxes involved as illustrated here for the class I noun m-tu
‘‘person’’ (Welmers 1973: 171):
(10) attributive m-tu m-moja ‘‘one person’’
associative m-tu w-a Utete ‘‘a person from Utete’’
demonstrative m-tu yu-le ‘‘that person’’
subject m-tu a-likuja ‘‘a person came’’
The African noun-class system certainly has a pretty complicated
appearance. Yet, just like gender, it is deeply rooted in the language system
and the language user. Loan words are incorporated into that system
(sometimes accompanied by reinterpretation of the phonological form of
the loan). For instance, the English instruction keep left has been adapted in
inflectional systems 131
Swahili as kipilefti, and is used to denote a roundabout. The Wrst syllable ki
has been interpreted as a class preWx (class IV), and hence the plural form
of this word is vipilefti. A similar case is the Arabic loan word kitabi ‘‘book’’
with the plural form vitabi.
The other important inXectional category for nouns is case. Like number
properties, case properties of nouns are transferred to words of other
classes through agreement. The Icelandic paradigm in Table 6.1 is quite
characteristic of Indo-European case systems with respect to the number of
cases. Languages may diVer considerably in the number of cases they have,
if any. Finnish and Hungarian are well known for their large number
of cases. There are four cases with a clearly grammatical function:
nominative, accusative, genitive, and partitive. The partitive case is used
to mark patient objects that are partially aVected by the action, as the
following sentence from Hungarian illustrates (Blake 1994: 153):
(11) Olvasott a könyv-böl
read.3sg the book-part
‘‘He read some of the book’’
This language and its relatives are well known for its large set of local cases.
The Finnish nouns in (12) all have a particular local case. These local cases
have similar functions as locative prepositions in languages with less elab-
orated case systems such as Latin. In addition to the local cases, there are
also cases such as the abessive with the meaning ‘‘without’’, and the
comitative, with the meaning ‘‘accompanied by’’:
(12) Case label Meaning Example
allative to(wards) (the exterior) of pöydä-lle ‘‘onto the table’’
illative into laitokse-en ‘‘to the institute’’
ablative from (the exterior of) kadu-lta ‘‘out of the street’’
elative from (the inside of) kaupa-sta ‘‘out of the shop’’
inessive in(side) talo-ssa ‘‘in the house’’
adessive at roof-ade ‘‘on the roof ’’
The elative and the partitive case are both used in quantifying expres-
sions. Consider the following examples from Finnish (Sulkala and Karja-
lainen 1992: 234):
(13) kaksi poji-sta kaksi poika-a
two boy.pl-elative two boy-partitive
‘‘two of the boys’’ ‘‘two boys’’
132 inflection
Note that in the second example, the noun is not marked for plural. The
number word functions as the head of the phrase, and assigns partitive case
to the following noun. These examples also serve to illustrate the relation
between particular case labels and their semantic interpretation.
The case labels here are primarily formal notions. A particular case
may be used for a number of diVerent meanings. The Latin ablative
case, for example, may be used with an instrumental meaning, but also to
indicate removal from somewhere. In Finnish, the instrumental meaning
can be expressed by the adessive case, as in (Sulkala and Karjalainen
1992: 224):
(14) Tein leivä-n konee-lla
make.impf.1sg bread-acc machine-adessive
‘‘I made bread with the machine’’
The genitive case is well known for its vague meaning: it may specify a
relation between the noun marked with genitive case and another noun (the
head noun), but the speciWc interpretation of that relation is a matter of
interpretation. The Latin phrase amor parentum ‘‘the parents’ love’’, with
the word parens ‘‘parent’’ in the gen.pl form, can either denote the love
that parents have (for their children), or the love that they receive from
their children. In the Wrst case, they are the subject of love, in the second
case the object. Hence, one Wnds the corresponding semantic distinctions
genitivus subjectivus and genitivus objectivus in traditional descriptions
of Latin. The general meaning of the genitive is clearly ‘‘relation’’. The
linguist Roman Jakobson has tried to derive such speciWc semantic inter-
pretations of each of the Russian cases from a general, vague meaning,
referred to as the Gesamtbedeutung (Jakobson 1936).
6.2 Categories of verbal inflection
There are three important categories of inherent inXection for verbs: tense,
mood, and aspect. Many languages have overt marking for these categories,
and in language descriptions one usually Wnds a description of the Tense–
Mood–Aspect system or TMA system for short. In addition, there is a
category Voice (such as Active versus Passive forms) that is sometimes
considered as part of verbal inXection. However, since this category has
eVects on the syntactic valency of verbs, it is treated in Chapter 8. Verbs
inflectional systems 133
may also carry features of the participants of the event they denote. Hence,
we also Wnd number, person, and gender marking on verbs.
The tense of a verb locates the situation denoted by the relevant clause on
a time axis with, in most cases, the moment of speaking as the point of
reference. The notion tense is to be distinguished from the notion ‘time’.
With tense we refer to the grammatical expression of time notions in a
language, through morphology or periphrastic forms. Time, on the other
hand, can be expressed through all kinds of phrases, such as the previous
day. The past tense indicates that the situation obtained before the moment
of speaking, the present tense indicates that the situation obtains at the
moment of speaking, and the future tense signals that the situation denoted
is located on the time axis after the moment of speaking. Some languages
have speciWc morphological forms for these three tenses, as is the case for
Lithuanian (Chung and Timberlake 1985: 204):
(15) a. dirb-au
work-1sg.past
‘‘I worked/was working’’
b. dirb-u
work-1sg.pres
‘‘I work/am working’’
c. dirb-s-iu
work-fut-1sg
‘‘I will work/will be working’’
The function of tense is a deictic one, because its interpretation depends on
some external point of reference in the speech situation, the time axis. With
the notion deixis we refer to the link between elements of an utterance and
entities in some extra-linguistic reality. In the sentence He is ill, for instance,
the personal pronoun he is used deictically: the speaker assumes that the
hearer is able to identify the referent of that pronoun in the speech situation.
The interpretation of tense forms is sometimes more complicated than
sketched above. A well-known example of a mismatch between form and
interpretation is the use of the present tense in referring to the past. This use
is traditionally called praesens historicum. In this kind of language use, we
use present tense forms in speaking about the past, in order to make our
report on what has happened more lively, and incisive.
Another salient feature of tense is that, although it is marked on the verb,
its semantic scope is the whole clause to which it belongs. In the sentence
134 inflection
Suzanne told the children a fairy-tale, the whole situation of Suzanne telling
the children a fairy-tale is claimed to have been true at some moment before
the moment of speaking. The statement John met the Tsar can therefore
be true now, at the moment of speaking, even though there is no Tsar any
more.
The notion aspect refers to the way in which situations (states or events)
can be presented. The term is used as a semantic notion, but also to refer to
the grammatical expression of that semantic notion. As Comrie (1976: 3)
stated, ‘aspects are diVerent ways of viewing the internal temporal con-
stituency of a situation’. Perfective aspect presents a situation as completed,
whereas imperfective aspect presents the situation as ongoing. This kind of
aspect is referred to as grammatical aspect.
Grammatical aspect has to be distinguished from predicational aspect,
the kind of aspect that is determined by a verb and its arguments. Consider
the following English sentences:
(16) a. John reads a lot
b. John reads the book
The action of reading does not necessarily have an inherent endpoint, and
hence the verb to read in its intransitive use in (16a) receives a durative (or
atelic) interpretation. This durative aspect is the inherent lexical aspect of
this verb. In (16b), the same verb is used as a transitive verb, with a deWnite
direct object, and hence this sentence receives a telic interpretation, in
which the endpoint of the action is implied. Predicational aspect thus not
only depends on the nature of the verb, but also on that of its arguments
such as the object NP, and is therefore compositional in nature
For other verbs, telic aspect is an inherent property, as is the case for the
verb to die that denotes a punctual event. Hence, we call it lexical aspect
(also referred to by its German label, Aktionsart). A punctual event by
deWnition implies that the endpoint of the event is reached, and hence its
lexical aspect is telic. Verbs with inherent telic aspect can also be created by
means of derivational morphology, as we will see in Chapter 9.
In sum, there are at least three diVerent layers involved in the aspectual
properties of a sentence: (i) lexical aspect, (ii) predicational aspect, and
(iii) grammatical aspect, the latter being a property of the proposition
expressed by the clause.
The necessity of distinguishing between grammatical aspect and predica-
tional aspect is illustrated by the following sentence:
inflectional systems 135
(17) John is reading the book
The predicate reading the book has telic aspect, since there is an implied
endpoint for the action denoted. Yet, its grammatical aspect is imperfect-
ive: it presents the situation as ongoing, marked by the periphrastic
progressive form of the English verb.
The notion perfect must be distinguished from the notion perfective
aspect. The perfect relates two diVerent points on the time axis, and
‘indicates the continuing relevance of a past situation’ (Comrie 1976: 52).
Therefore, the perfect is often considered a temporal rather than an aspect-
ual distinction. Compare the following two English sentences:
(18) a. past tense: Herry read the last novel by McEwan
b. present perfect tense: Herry has read the last novel by McEwan
The Wrst sentence denotes an individual event. In the second sentence, it is
indicated that the event in the past of Herry reading a particular novel
is added to the inventory of achievements by Herry. This explains why a
temporal adverbial such as yesterday can be used in combination with
the past tense, but not in combination with the present perfect: a time
speciWcation is only correct for an individual event.
In some European languages the diVerences between past and present
perfect have become blurred. For instance, in Dutch, unlike English, it is
possible to use the present perfect form in combination with gisteren
‘‘yesterday’’, as in:
(19) Gisteren heeft Herry de laatste roman van McEwan gelezen
Yesterday has Herry the last novel by McEwan read
‘‘Yesterday, Herry read the last novel by McEwan’’
In Afrikaans, the simple past tense forms of its mother language Dutch
have disappeared completely and the periphrastic present perfect forms are
used to express the simple past.
The distinction between imperfective and perfective aspect is most com-
mon for past tense forms; present tense denotes an ongoing event, and hence
is imperfective by nature. The following examples from Spanish illustrate the
diVerences in interpretation between the two aspects (González 2003: 112):
(20) a. Laura beb-ió una Coca-Cola
Laura drink-past.perf a Coca-Cola
‘‘Laura drank a Coca-Cola’’
136 inflection
b. Laura beb-ı́a una Coca-Cola
Laura drink-past.impf a Coca-Cola
‘‘Laura drank a Coca-Cola’’
In (20a), the situation is presented as closed oV, whereas in (20b) the event
is interpreted as ongoing, with a progressive or habitual interpretation.
These examples also illustrate that, quite often, the diVerent forms of a
verbal paradigm express both tense and aspect by means of the same
ending, that is, by means of cumulative exponence.
The third category associated with verbal paradigms is that of mood.
Mood describes the actuality of an event. For instance, a language may use
morphology to distinguish between actual and non-actual events by having
a realis and an irrealis mood. The indicative mood is typically the mood for
realis, whereas subjunctive and imperative forms denote some sort of non-
actuality. Subjunctive forms are found, for instance, in embedded clauses
with a matrix verb of hoping, ordering, or claiming. The following example
illustrates this for German:
(21) Er behauptet er sei dort gewesen
he claims he be.subjunctive there been
‘‘He claims he has been there’’
If you hope or think that something will happen, or if you order something
to happen, it has not yet happened, so the event is not part of the actual
world. Mood may also be used to indicate the epistemic status of the
proposition. Latvian, for instance, has an evidential mood to report hearsay
knowledge, as in the following sentence (Nau 2001: 189):
(22) Cit-i saka tu es-ot visai skarb-s
other-pl say.pres.3 2sg be-evid very harsh-nom.sg.masc
tip-s
fellow-nom.sg
‘‘Some say—you are a rather harsh fellow’’
Although tense, aspect, and mood are qualitatively diVerent notions, they
are often intertwined in the form of a verb. For instance, past tense and
perfective aspect are related, because for an event to be completed, it
cannot be ongoing, and thus excludes present tense. There is also a relation
between past and irrealis: the event denoted is not an actual one. Hence,
past tense forms are used to express irrealis, as in:
(23) I would have come, if I had been able to
inflectional systems 137
In combination with the future modal auxiliary, a counterfactual
interpretation is invoked.
Because these three notions are so intertwined, one often Wnds the term
TMA-system to refer to the verbal system for expressing these three cat-
egories and related ones such as speaker’s attitude. In so far these three
categories are expressed by diVerent morphemes, the following tendency
has been observed concerning their ordering and that of person markers
with respect to the verbal stem:
(24) aspect > tense > mood > person (Bybee 1985: 35)
This hierarchy means that aspect markers tend to be found more closely to
the stem than tense markers, tense markers more closely than mood mark-
ers, etc. As argued by Bybee (1985), this ordering may reXect the degree to
which the meaning expressed by the verbal root is aVected by these diVerent
markers. For instance, aspectual markers, which are closest to the verbal
root, have a direct eVect on the kind of event that is denoted by the verb.
Tense markers, on the other hand, do not aVect the meaning of the verb
directly, but express the location of the state or event denoted by the verb
on the time axis with respect to the moment of speaking.
In addition to these three categories of inherent inXection on verbs, verbs
may exhibit contextual inXection in the form of person, number, and
gender marking. The distinction between three persons for both singular
and plural number is quite pervasive in the languages of the world. Person
marking is found for the subject, and sometimes also for other dependents
of the verb such as the object. The number of distinctions made by a
particular language can sometimes be read oV its system of pronouns.
The next step is to see how, and to what extent, these distinctions are
also encoded in verbal forms. Many pronominal systems have up to six
diVerent forms for these six possible combinations of person and number.
The semantic interpretation of the distinction between the three persons is
as follows:
(25) 1 ¼ speaker, 2 ¼ addressee, 3 ¼ any other entity than speaker or addressee
These semantic qualiWcations make clear that person is a deictic notion. The
referential value of personal pronouns, for instance, is not Wxed, and de-
pends on the situation in which the sentence is uttered. That is why the
Danish linguist Jespersen called these pronouns shifters. The referential
value of, for instance, I will shift continuously in the course of a dialogue.
138 inflection
For a child, it sometimes takes some time before it has mastered that
system, and understands that I can refer to someone else than the child itself.
The notion plural has a particular interpretation in connection to person,
namely that of ‘‘group’’. The following combinations are logically possible
(after Cysouw 2001: 70):
(26) 1 + 1 ‘‘we’’, mass speaking
1 + 2 ‘‘we’’, including addressee, excluding other
1 + 3 ‘‘we’’, including other, excluding addressee
1 + 2 + 3 ‘‘we’’, complete
2 + 2 ‘‘you-all’’, only present audience
2 + 3 ‘‘you-all’’, addressee(s) and others
3 + 3 ‘‘they’’
The English pronoun we allows for all four logically possible interpret-
ations; the Wrst one is only appropriate when people speak or sing together
as in the soccer stadium where the audience sings We are the champions.
Some languages have diVerent forms for inclusive we (1 + 2) versus exclu-
sive we (1 + 3), as illustrated here for the possessive pronouns of Cuzco
Quechua (van de Kerke 1996: 121):
(27) wasi-y ‘‘my house’’
wasi-yki ‘‘your house’’
wasi-n ‘‘his house’’
wasi-nchis ‘‘our (speaker’s and hearer’s) house’’
wasi-yku ‘‘our (speaker’s and not hearer’s) house’’
wasi-ykichis ‘‘your house’’
wasi-nku ‘‘their house’’
Many languages that have six formal distinctions in their pronominal
system do not have the same number in their verbal inXection. In the
English singular present tense forms of regular verbs we only Wnd a formal
morphological distinction between third person versus Wrst/second person
(walk-s versus walk); in the plural, there are no morphologically marked
person distinctions whatsoever. This kind of syncretism can be accounted
for by considering such forms as underspeciWed for certain morphosyntac-
tic features. The English plural forms are not speciWed for the category
person, and hence they combine with subjects of all three persons. When
combinations of Wnite verbal forms and subjects are checked by the rule of
Agreement, these plural forms will be discovered to be compatible with
their subject with respect to these categories. The form walk can be speciWed
inflectional systems 139
as [-3sg], and will therefore be combinable with 1sg and 2sg, and with all
kinds of plural subjects. Italian, on the other hand, has distinct present tense
forms for all six person–number combinations.
Some linguists have claimed that there is a relation between the omissa-
bility of the subject and the richness of the verbal paradigm. Italian, for
instance, has six diVerent present tense forms, and allows for omission of the
subject. This idea is referred to as the Pro-drop-parameter: languages diVer
as to the obligatory expression of the subject, depending on the degree of
richness of the verbal paradigm. However, it appears that there is no
necessary connection between the two since there are also languages that
do not have diVerent forms for each of the six cells, and yet do allow for
omission of the subject, as is the case for Indonesian (Cysouw 2001: 52).
In many languages, politeness conventions aVect the selection of a
particular person form. In Italian, for instance, the 3sg form is used as
the form for addressing persons in a polite way:
(28) Come sta-i? vs Come sta?
how be-2sg how be.3sg
‘‘How are you?’’ ‘‘How are you?’’ (polite)
The 3sg form creates a larger distance between speaker and addressee than
a 2sg form. This distance or indirectness receives the value of politeness.
Other languages use plural forms for that purpose, or a combination of
both, as in German where both the 3pl subject pronoun and the corre-
sponding verbal form are used to refer to a singular or plural addressee in
order to convey politeness:
(29) sie kommen ‘‘they come’’ Sie kommen ‘‘you (sg/pl) come’’ (polite)
du komm-st ‘‘you (sg) come’’ (informal)
The use of a capital initial for the pronoun in the politeness form is an
orthographic marker of this use of the pronoun. In old-fashioned Dutch,
the 1pl verbal form in combination with the pronoun wij ‘‘we’’ can be used as
a pluralis majestatis, as in the opening line of Dutch law texts which are
formulated as a decision of the Dutch queen: Wij Beatrix, bij de gratie Gods
Koningin der Nederlanden ‘‘We, Beatrix, by the grace of God Queen of
the Netherlands’’. The 1pl form can also be used by writers to express
modesty, since written Ik ‘‘I’’ might be felt as the author imposing him/herself
too much on the reader. Thus, the use and interpretation of person–number
features is governed by language-speciWc conventional pragmatic rules.
140 inflection
6.3 Autonomous morphology
In the realm of inXection, the relationships between form and meaning are
quite complex, with much formal variation that does not serve to directly
express a speciWc grammatical content. The existence of declensions and
conjugations means that there is a many-to-one relationship between form
and meaning. We might refer to these phenomena as ‘autonomous morph-
ology’ since morphology has its own formal systematics that does not bear
upon the other modules of the grammar. Let us have a closer look at these
complexities in the domain of verbal inXection.
Many Indo-European languages have a number of verbal conjugations.
Italian, for instance, has three conjugations, each with a diVerent thematic
vowel after the root, a, e, or i. The third conjugation has two subclasses
because some of the i-verbs have a special allomorph with an augment isc.
We call this string isc an augment since it does not express some inXectional
property. The verbal forms in Table 6.3 constitute only a subset of the
diVerent verbal paradigms, and are meant as a modest illustration of
the possible richness of verbal inXectional systems. The occurrence of the
augment isc is lexically governed but not completely arbitrary. It only
appears in those forms in which otherwise the stress would fall on the
root (sg and 3pl forms).
In Italian, the inWnitive form is the form used to refer to a particular
verb. This form contains the thematic vowel that we have to know in order
to compute the whole set of forms in a paradigm. So the inWnitive form has
the structure ‘root + thematic vowel + ending’, and it is the stem (root +
thematic vowel) that is the basis for computing the diVerent forms. These
diVerent thematic vowels show up in a systematic way in the imperfective
past tense forms, which are completely regular once you know the thematic
vowel.
In order to compute the whole verbal paradigm, you may actually need
more than one stem-form for the computation of the whole verbal para-
digm. Consider the Latin data in Table 6.4. As these data show, the best
way to compute the future participle is deriving it from the perfect participle
by adding the suYx -ūr. In those cases in which the perfect participle has an
irregular form, that irregularity recurs in the future participle. The clearest
case of this argument is the verb ferre that has a suppletive stem for the
perfect participle. This suppletive stem lāt- recurs in the future participle.
inflectional systems 141
However, from a semantic point of view, there is no ground for claiming
that the future participle is derived from the perfect participle. Obviously,
the future participle does not carry a perfect meaning. So we have to say
instead that Latin verbs have (at least) two stems. Stem-1 is the stem-form
on which the inWnitive is based. Stem-2 forms the basis for both the perfect
participle and the future participle. This is represented in Figure 6.1. For
regular verbs such as laudāre, Stem-2 can be computed from Stem-1
(through the addition of -t). For irregular verbs, Stem-2 has to be stored
Table 6.3. The Italian verb paradigm
infinitive
parlare
‘‘speak’’
temere
‘‘fear’’
dormire
‘‘sleep’’
capire
‘‘understand’’
present
1sg parlo temo dormo capisco
2sg parli temi dormi capisci
3sg parla teme dorme capisce
1pl parliamo temiamo dormiamo capiamo
2pl parlate temete dormite capite
3pl parlano temono dormono capiscono
past
imperfective
1sg parlavo temevo dormivo capivo
2sg parlavi temevi dormivi capivi
3sg parlava temeva dormiva capiva
1pl parlavamo temevamo dormivamo capivamo
2pl parlavate temevate dormivate capivate
3pl parlavano temevano dormivano capivano
past perfective
1sg parlai temei dormii capii
2sg parlasti temesti dormisti capisti
3sg parlò temè dormı̀ capı̀
1pl parlammo tememmo dormimmo capimmo
2pl parlaste temeste dormiste capiste
3pl parlarono temerono dormirono capirono
future
1sg parlerò temerò dormirò capirò
2sg parlerai temerai dormirai capirai
3sg parlerà temerà dormirà capirà
1pl parleremo temeremo dormiremo capiremo
2pl parlerete temerete dormirete capirete
3pl parleranno temeranno dormiranno capiranno
142 inflection
as part of the lexical information on that verb. AronoV (1994) introduced
the term morphome as a label for categories such as Stem-2 which have no
grammatical relevance beyond the functioning of morphology. Stem-2 is a
morphome, a morphological function that speciWes the stem form for
particular morphosyntactic forms.
DiVerent verbal stems also play a role in word-formation. For instance,
the stem of Italian perfect participles is also used for coining deverbal agent
nouns (Vogel 1994: 233), see (30):
(30) Verb Past participle Agent noun
corregg-ere ‘‘to correct’’ corrett-o corrett-ore
dirig-ere ‘‘to direct’’ dirett-o dirett-ore
distrugg-ere ‘‘to destroy’’ distrutt-o distrutt-ore
scriv-ere ‘‘to write’’ scritt-o scritt-ore
Another kind of formal variation in paradigms is that of suppletion.
Suppletion underscores the importance of the notion ‘inXectional para-
digm’: forms belong together, not always because they are phonologically
similar, but because they Wll the cells of the paradigm of the same lexeme.
Classic cases of suppletion are the diVerent forms of the verb to be in
English. In many languages, the equivalent of this verb has a suppletive
Table 6.4. Latin verbal stem-forms
infinitive perfect participle future participle gloss
laudā-re laudāt- laudāt-ūr- praise
monē-re monit- monit-ūr- warn
duce-re duct- duct-ūr- lead
prem-ere press- press-ūr- press
fer-re lāt- lāt-ūr- carry
Source: AronoV 1994: 32.
Fig. 6.1 Stems in Latin
inflectional systems 143
paradigm (Table 6.5). Suppletive forms usually occur in particular with
lexemes with a high frequency of use. In a number of languages, the verb
for ‘‘to give’’ has diVerent stems depending on the person of the recipient:
Wrst and second person versus third person. In Kolyma Yukaghir, a lan-
guage of northeastern Siberia, the following pair of suppletive forms is
found (Elena Maslova, cited in Comrie 2001):
(31) tadi- ‘‘give to 3pers’’, kej- ‘‘give to 1/2pers’’
In languages with a number of conjugations, there is usually one default
conjugation: the inXection class taken by new verbs that enter the language.
In Italian, this is the a-conjugation. A somewhat diVerent situation obtains
in Germanic languages. They have a default conjugation in which the past
tense stem is formed through suYxation. This is called the weak conjuga-
tion, illustrated in Table 6.6.
In addition they have a number of classes of strong or stem-alternating
verbs that create past tense by means of vowel alternation (Ablaut). The
past participles of weak and strong verbs also diVer in that those of strong
verbs exhibit vowel alternations as well (Table 6.7). Weak verbs have a
past tense suYx -te after stems ending in a voiceless obstruent, and -de
elsewhere. The past participle is formed by preWxing the stem with ge-, and
suYxing it with -t (again, after voiceless obstruents), and -d elsewhere. Note
that the past participles of stem-alternating verbs have another suYx, -en.
Table 6.5. Singular present forms of ‘‘to be’’
English Dutch French Italian
1sg am ben suis sono
2sg are bent es sei
3sg is is est è
Table 6.6. Regular past tense and participle formation in Dutch
verb stem past tense sg past participle
tob ‘‘to toil’’ /tOb/ tob-de [bd] ge-tob-d
leg ‘‘to lay’’ /lEg/ leg-de [gd] ge-leg-d
kap ‘‘to cut’’ /kAp/ kap-te [pt] ge-kap-t
paf ‘‘to puV ’’ /pAf/ paf-te [ft] ge-paf-t
144 inflection
New verbs that enter the language (through borrowing or conversion from
nouns) are always inXected as weak verbs. This is independent evidence for
the weak verbs—which form the largest inXectional class of all—being the
default class. For instance, the Dutch verb computer ‘‘to use a computer’’
has computer-de as its past tense stem. The verb prijzen ‘‘to praise’’ is a
strong verb. There is also a homophonous verb prijzen derived through
conversion form the noun prijs ‘‘price’’, with the meaning ‘‘to price, to
provide with price labels’’. This latter verb is weakly inXected, and thus we
get the pair of past tense singular forms prees [pre:s] ‘‘praised’’ versus
prijsde [prEizde] ‘‘priced’’.
As in the case of suppletion, the verbs that exhibit apophony tend to
belong to the verbs with the highest frequency of use. The entrenchment of
these past tense stems in the memory of the language user must be an
important factor for the relative stability of such complicated systems.
Finally, periphrasis is a common feature of verbal inXectional systems.
For instance, in many European languages forms of the verb for ‘‘to have’’
and ‘‘to be’’ are used as auxiliaries in periphrastic forms for expressing the
Table 6.7. Stem alternating verbs in Dutch
Alternation pattern Present tense stem Past tense stem Past participle
A-B-B
/Ei-e:-e:/ knijp ‘‘to pinch’’ kneep ge-knep-en
/i-o:-o:/ schiet ‘‘to shoot’’ schoot ge-schot-en
/Vy-o:-o:/ buig ‘‘to bend’’ boog ge-bog-en
/e:-o:-o:/ weeg ‘‘to weigh’’ woog ge-wog-en
/I-O-O/ bind ‘‘to bind’’ bond ge-bond-en
/E-O-O/ zend ‘‘to send’’ zond ge-zond-en
A-B-A
/a:-u-a:/ draag ‘‘to carry’’ droeg ge-drag-en
/a:-i-a:/ blaas ‘‘to blow’’ blies ge-blaz-en
/A-i-A/ val ‘‘to fall’’ viel ge-vall-en
/A-I-A/ hang ‘‘to hang’’ hing ge-hang-en
/o:-i-o:/ loop ‘‘to walk’’ liep ge-lop-en
/O-E-O/ word ‘‘to become’’ werd ge-word-en
/u-i-u/ roep ‘‘to call’’ riep ge-roep-en
A-B-C
/E-i-O/ help ‘‘to help’’ hielp ge-holp-en
/E-i-a:/ schep ‘‘to create’’ schiep ge-schap-en
/e:-u-o:/ zweer ‘‘to swear’’ zwoer ge-zwor-en
inflectional systems 145
perfect, perfective aspect, or past tense. Historically, the use of to have as an
auxiliary derives form its use in predicative constructions. The sentence
I have the door shut can be interpreted as parallel to I keep the door shut,
with shut specifying a property of the door, something like ‘‘I have the door
in a shut state’’. Such constructions could be reanalysed as expressing that
a certain state of the object has been achieved, thus providing an interpret-
ation of ‘‘completion of the act of shutting’’. The combination of auxiliary
and past participle thus started leading a life of its own.
Summary
Systems for the inXections of nouns, adjectives, and verbs show compli-
cated patterns of formal variation in the expression of morphosyntactic
categories. That is why often a number of declensions and conjugations
have to be distinguished. The main inXectional categories for nouns and
adjectives are gender, number, and case. Verbs may be morphologically
marked for tense, aspect, mood, gender, person, and number.
The facts discussed in this chapter show that the notion ‘paradigm’ plays
an indispensable role in the analysis of inXectional systems and their sub-
systems. Notions such as periphrasis, suppletion, and rule of referral all
presuppose that inXectional forms are conceived of as Wlling the cells of a
paradigm.
The notion ‘autonomous morphology’ introduced in section 6.3 pertains
to the whole range of purely formal regularities involved in the proper
morphological expression of grammatical content on words, and the
analysis of these regularities.
Questions
1. The Animacy Hierarchy plays a role in the use of English personal pronouns.
English distinguishes three genders for 3sg personal pronouns: he, she, it
that can be used to refer to NPs. However, this threefold gender distinction
is not maintained for all antecedent NPs of these pronouns. Where on the
hierarchy is the cut-off point for the three-gender distinction?
2. Consider the following fourteen singular case forms of the Finnish words
käsi ‘‘hand’’ and tyttö ‘‘girl’’ (Sulkala and Karjalainen 1992: 386):
nominative käsi tyttö
genitive käden tytön
146 inflection
partitive kättä tyttöä
essive kätenä tyttönä
translative kädeksi tytöksi
abessive kädettä tytöttä
inessive kädessä tytössä
elative kädesta tytösta
illative käteen tyttöön
adessive kädellä tytöllä
ablative kädeltä tytöltä
allative kädelle tytölle
instrumental käden —
comitative käsineen tyttöineen
a. List the different stem shapes of these two words, and their distribution
across the cases.
b. If we wanted to make the instrumental case form of tyttö ‘‘girl’’, what
would it be?
3. Lithuanian has five different declensions for nouns. Nouns with a nom.sg
form in -as, -is, or -ys such as vyras ‘‘man’’, brolis ‘‘brother’’, and arklys
‘‘horse’’ belong to the first declension, and have the paradigms shown in
the table below:
a. What are the stem-forms of these three nouns?
b. What rule(s) of referral can be formulated for these paradigms?
4. My Latin school grammar presents the following paradigms for the words
nemo ‘‘nobody’’ and nihil ‘‘nothing’’:
nominative nēmō nihil
genitive nullı̄us nullı̄us reı̄
dative neminı̄ nullı̄ reı̄
accusative neminem nihil
ablative a nullō nullā rē
Which paradigmatic notions are presupposed in this presentation of the
forms of nemo and nihil?
singular plural
nom vyras brolis arklys vyrai broliai arkliai
gen vyro brolio arklio vyru
˛ broliu
˛ arkliu
˛
dat vyrui broliui arkliui vyrams broliams arkliams
acc vyra
˛ broli
˛ arkli
˛ vyrus brolius arklius
inst vyru broliu arkliu vyrais broliais arkliais
loc vyre brolyje arklyje vyruose broliuose arkliuose
voc vyre broli arkly vyrai broliai arkliai
Source: Tekorienė 1990: 221; the y stands for [i :], and the cedille on vowel letters indicates
length.
inflectional systems 147
5. In some languages, the imperfect or past tense can be used with modal or
politeness overtones, as in the following sentences from Dutch and Finnish
(Sulkala Karjalainen 1992: 299) respectively:
Wat was uw naam?
what was your name
‘‘What is your name, please?’’
Oliko rouvala lippua?
be.IMPF.3SG.Q madam.ADESSIVE ticket.PARTITIVE
‘‘Would you have a ticket, madam?’’
How would you explain this use of past tense forms?
6. Which form of systematic syncretism may be assumed for the Polish nouns
in (1) of Chapter 2?
7. In the following Latin sentences, the verbal infinitive used as subject
imposes neuter gender on the predicative adjective, and person and
number marking on the verb:
mentı̄-ri turp-e est
lie-INF scandalous-NEUT be.3SG
‘‘Lying is scandalous’’
navigā-re difficil-e est
sail-INF difficult-NEUT be.3SG
‘‘Sailing is difficult’’
Explain why these verbal infinitives trigger agreement, although it is
typically nominal elements that are the sources of the agreeing features.
8. In Turkish constructions with partitive numerals, the quantified noun re-
ceives genitive or ablative case. The numeral itself carries a nominal agree-
ment marker (Kornfilt 1997: 236–7).
çocuk-lar-in iki-si çocuk-lar-dan iki-si
child-PL-GEN two-3SG child-PL-ABL two-3SG
‘‘two of the children’’ ‘‘two of the children’’
Is the case marking of the word çocuk-lar ‘‘children’’ an instance of depen-
dent marking or of head marking?
9. Compare the following Dutch sentence and its English gloss:
Morgen breng ik je het boek
tomorrow bring I you the book
‘‘Tomorrow, I’ll bring you the book’’
How might it be explained that the future tense which is expressed overtly
in English does not receive overt marking in Dutch?
10. The following Turkish sentence has an iterative aspectual interpretation
although there is no morphological marker for iterative aspect (Kornfilt
1997: 360):
Hasan öksür-üyor
Hasan cough-PRES.PROGR
‘‘Hasan is coughing repeatedly’’
How can this iterative aspectual interpretation be explained?
148 inflection
Further reading
There are monographs on the following morphosyntactic categories discussed
in this chapter: Number (Corbett 2000), Gender (Corbett 1991), Case (Blake
1994), Tense (Comrie 1984), Aspect (Comrie 1976), Person (Cysouw 2001).
Chung and Timberlake (1985) is an article with a typological survey of TMA-
systems. The role of gender in natural language is discussed in Unterbeck et al.
(2000).
For rules of referral, see Stump (1993, 2001). In a number of publications,
Carstairs-McCarthy has studied the constraints on the extent of allomorphy we
find in inflectional systems (for instance, Carstairs 1987; Carstairs-McCarthy
1994; Cameron-Faulkner and Carstairs-McCarthy 2000).
A formal analysis of syncretism by means of inheritance trees is proposed in
Corbett and Fraser (1993). Harley and Noyer (2003) discuss syncretism in the
framework of Distributed Morphology. A website with a database on syncre-
tism is http://www.smg.surrey.ac.uk.
inflectional systems 149
This page intentionally left blank
Part IV
Interfaces
This page intentionally left blank
7
The interface between
morphology and phonology
7.1 Morphology and phonology
The English adjective seléctive can be suYxed with either -ity or -ness,
resulting in selectı́vity and seléctiveness respectively. The acute accents on
these words indicate the location of main stress. As you can see, the attach-
ment of the suYx -ity has the eVect that the location of the main word
stress shifts rightwards, to the last syllable of the stem selective, whereas the
attachment of the suYx -ness does not aVect the location of the main stress
on the stem. This suggests that morphological structure may play a role in
determining the phonological form of a complex word. In this chapter we
will zoom in on the issue how morphological structure plays a role in com-
puting the phonological form of a word. Inversely, phonological properties
of words may also play a role in selecting an aYx with which it can com-
bine. The English suYx -al, for example, can only be attached to verbs that
end in a stressed syllable (arrı́ve–arrival, recı́te–recital, chátter–*chatter-al ).
These kinds of interaction between morphology and phonology show that
there must be an interface between the morphological and the phonological
7.1 Morphology and phonology 153
7.2 Interface principles 156
7.3 Allomorphy and aYx
competition 168
7.4 Cyclicity and
co-phonologies 175
7.5 The morphological use
of phonology 177
Summary 182
Questions 182
Further reading 184
properties of words. ‘Interface’ means that diVerent kinds of information
about linguistic constructs (in these examples words) can ‘see’ each other.
In order to provide some more substance to the notion ‘interface’ in the
domain of morphology, we will Wrst consider what kinds of information on
words the grammar needs to provide. A word is a complex piece of informa-
tion. It links a particular sequence of sounds to a particular meaning, and
also has formal properties such as a syntactic category label. The informa-
tion contained in the English simplex word dog, for instance, can be repre-
sented as in Figure 7.1. The Wrst piece of information in Figure 7.1 concerns
the phonological properties of this word: it is a phonological word (ø) that
consists of one syllable () that in its turn consists of a sequence of three
sounds. This phonological word bears the same index as the syntactic
information about this word (that it is a noun), and the semantic informa-
tion that it expresses the predicate DOG. Coindexation is used here to
specify the correspondence between the three kinds of information
involved in knowing a word. We thus see that a word has a tripartite parallel
structure.
Let us now look at a complex word such as the English word baker, a
noun derived from the verb bake through suYxation with -er. The three
kinds of information (the phonological form, the morphological structure,
and the meaning) concerning this word can be represented as in Figure 7.2.
The phonological structure of baker is that of a phonological word consist-
ing of two syllables, (be:) and (ker), and of Wve phonological segments. Its
Fig. 7.1 The representation of dog
Fig. 7.2 The representation of baker
154 interfaces
formal structure is that of a deverbal noun, as indicated by the tree that
represents its formal morphological structure.
The representation in Figure 7.2 may be generalized into a template for
nouns derived from verbs by means of the suYx -er. This is achieved by
omitting the word-speciWc information. This morphological template thus
speciWes that there is the following systematic relation between the three
kinds of linguistic information involved (Figure 7.3). In Figure 7.3 the level
of the syllables has been omitted because the number of syllables of words
ending in -er is not Wxed, but depends on the phonological make-up of
the base verb. The syllabiWcation of English words is predictable, and
need not be speciWed in morphological templates. Hence it is a computable,
predictable property of each individual deverbal noun in -er. Instead of the
speciWc predicate BAKE, the general label V is used to refer to the semantic
properties of the base verb.
The tripartite structure in Figure 7.3, an instance of a word-formation
template, is meant to make clear that morphology is not a module of
grammar on a par with the phonological or the syntactic module, which
are modules that deal with one aspect of linguistic structure only. Morph-
ology is word grammar, and similar to sentence grammar in its dealing with
the relationships between three kinds of information. It is only with respect
to the domain of linguistic entities that morphology is diVerent from
sentence grammar: morphology has the word domain as its primary focus.
This short introduction to the idea of tripartite parallel structure paves the
way for grasping the notion ‘interface’. This notion refers to the ways in which
properties of one kind of structure relate to those of another structure. An
example of a relation between phonological and morphological form is that
the suYx -er is one of the so-called cohering suYxes of English. This means
that this suYx forms one domain of syllabiWcation with the stem to which it
has been attached. The word baker is syllabiWed in the same way as the word
father in which the sequence -er is not a suYx. The sound sequence -er forms
one syllable with the preceding consonant in both words: ba.ker, fa.ther
(remember that dots indicate syllable boundaries). Thus, the morphological
Fig. 7.3 The template for deverbal -er
the interface between morphology and phonology 155
boundary between bak- and -er in baker is not respected in phonology,
in the sense that it does not coincide with a syllable boundary.
There are also aYxes that do inXuence the way that a complex word is
syllabiWed. The English suYx -less, for example, is a non-cohering suYx.
This means that this suYx forms its own domain of syllabiWcation. The
adjective help-less, for instance, is syllabiWed as help.less, with a syllable
boundary coinciding with the internal morphological boundary. Compare
the syllabiWcation of this adjective to the syllabiWcation of the word duplex,
which is du.plex, with a syllable boundary before the consonant cluster /pl/.
The distinction between cohering aYxes and non-cohering ones is therefore
a theoretical distinction that we need for a proper account of the interface
between morphology and phonology.
These introductory remarks should give you some idea of what is meant
by ‘interface’. In this and the next two chapters, these interface issues are
dealt with in more detail.
7.2 Interface principles
An important task of the phonological module of a grammar is computing
the phonetic form of complex words. Consider the examples in (1) of plural
noun formation in Dutch. The plural nouns are formed by adding the suYx
-en/en/ to the stem of the noun; the singular form has no overt phonological
marking. The basic procedure for computing the phonetic forms of these
plural nouns consists of three steps. The Wrst step is attaching the string of
segments of the plural suYx to the stem. This is a morphological operation.
The next two steps are phonological operations. Step 2 is the computation
of the prosodic structure of a word, in particular the way in which a word is
syllabiWed. In step 3, we scan the singular and plural forms as to the applic-
ability of phonological rules or constraints. A well-known phonological
(1) singular Phonetic form plural Phonetic form
hoed ‘‘hat’’ [hut] hoed-en [huden]
voet ‘‘foot’’ [vut] voet-en [vuten]
poes ‘‘cat’’ [pus] poez-en [puzen]
spies ‘‘spear’’ [spis] spies-en [spisen]
156 interfaces
constraint of Dutch and German is that obstruents (stops and fricatives)
are voiceless at the end of a syllable. Therefore, the Wnal obstruents in the
singular forms of these nouns must be voiceless. In the plural nouns hoeden
and poezen, on the other hand, the stem-Wnal voiced obstruents appear at
the beginning of the second syllable, and hence they are not subject to
devoicing. The three steps are illustrated here for the singular and plural
forms of the word hoed ‘‘hat’’ ( ¼ syllable):
(2) step 1: morphology hud hud-en
step 2: syllabiWcation (hud) (hu)(den)
step 3: syllable-Wnal devoicing (hut) not applicable
In step 1 we make use of the underlying form of the word hoed, the abstract
phonological form from which the diVerent surface forms of this word can
be derived. At the end of the derivation we have computed the phonetic
form of a word. We thus see that Dutch noun stems may exhibit allomor-
phy, variation in their phonological shape. The lexical morpheme/hud/ has
two diVerent shapes, [hut] and [hud]. This variation is governed by a
phonological constraint of Dutch, and hence this allomorphy is the pre-
dictable eVect of the phonological system of Dutch.
The plural form hoeden [huden] ‘‘hats’’ also serves to illustrate a general
point concerning the interface between phonology and morphology: the
potential asymmetry between morphological and phonological structure.
The word hoeden consists of Wve segments that are structured in two ways,
as shown in Figure 7.4. The representation of phonological structure in
Figure 7.4 requires some explication. The basic idea is that the sounds
of a word are organized into higher units. Sound segments combine into
syllables (), syllables into feet (F), and feet into phonological words (ø).
The foot in this word is a trochee, that is, a foot consisting of two syllables
Fig. 7.4 The morphological and phonological structure of hoeden
the interface between morphology and phonology 157
of which the Wrst is the head and carries stress (hoeden carries stress on its
Wrst syllable). In this case, the phonological word happens to consist of only
one foot. This hierarchical organization of a word’s segments is also called
its prosodic structure, and instead of ‘phonological word’ the term prosodic
word may be used.
A basic constraint on the relation between lexical words (that is, non-
function words) and prosodic words is that a lexical word must consist of at
least one prosodic word:
(3) Lexical word ¼ minimally prosodic word
English and Dutch require a prosodic word to contain at least one full, that
is, non-reduced vowel. Hence, they cannot have schwa [e] as their only
vowel, unlike function words such as a and the. Dutch function words such
as een [en] ‘‘a’’ and er [er] ‘‘there’’ violate a second constraint of Dutch,
namely that a prosodic word cannot begin with a schwa. Hence, unlike
these function words, lexical words of Dutch never begin with a schwa.
The asymmetry of phonological and morphological structure manifests
itself quite clearly in Figure 7.4 with respect to the /d/: at the level of
morphological structure it forms a unit with the preceding sounds, at the
level of phonological structure it combines with the following sounds. The
interaction between morphology and phonology in this example is, so it
seems, zero. Phonology does not seem to care about the formal morpho-
logical structure of this word. However, as we will see below, there are many
cases in which morphological structure does inXuence the phonological
form of a word.
The three steps in (2) illustrate the idea of phonological derivation: the
computation of the phonetic forms of words in a number of steps, which
is a hallmark of classical generative phonology. There is an alternative,
non-derivational model that can be used to achieve the same result. In that
model, the phonology of a language is seen as a set of ranked constraints.
In the case of hoeden, three constraints are relevant. One is the constraint
which demands that obstruents are voiceless in syllable-Wnal position. Let
us refer to it as FinDevoicing. A second constraint is called Faithfulness: the
phonetic realization of a word or morpheme should be identical to its
underlying form, and not deviate from that underlying form. That is,
allomorphy should be avoided. A third constraint that plays a role is that
syllables should begin with a consonant. This is the No Empty Onset
constraint. As the phonetic form of the singular form hoed [hut] shows, in
158 interfaces
Dutch the constraint FinDevoicing is ranked higher than Faithfulness since
we do get allomorphy. The existence of allomorphy shows that constraints
can be violated: faithfulness is violated in the singular form in order to
satisfy the higher ranked constraint FinDevoicing. The selection of the
optimal phonetic form of hoed and hoeden is shown in Figure 7.5. It is
represented in tables (called tableaux), and this variety of phonological
analysis is called Optimality Theory.
Fig. 7.5 OT-tableaux for hoed and hoeden
The left columns mention the possible phonetic forms for the underlying
forms (given between slashes). These phonetic forms are called the candi-
dates. The left–right order of the constraints represents their ranking. The
leftmost is the highest ranked one. The asterisks in the cells of the tableaux
indicate that a constraint is violated by the candidate phonetic form. If a
constraint is no longer relevant for choosing the optimal candidate, the
corresponding cell is shaded. The pointed Wnger indicates the optimal
phonetic form. In the case of hoed the second candidate is selected since
the Wrst candidate violates a higher ranked constraint than the second one.
The exclamation mark indicates that a violation is fatal. That is, this
violation results in the fact that the form is ungrammatical, and will
never surface. For hoeden the Wrst candidate will be selected since it does
not violate any of the constraints, unlike the other candidates.
The potential asymmetry between morphological and phonological
structure can be expressed by alignment constraints. If the two types
of structure are to be isomorphic, the edges of stems have to be aligned
with the edges of phonological constituents such as the syllable. This is
what the constraints Alignment Left and Alignment Right require: align
the left and right morphological stem boundaries with phonological
the interface between morphology and phonology 159
constituent boundaries. The reason why Alignment Right is violated in the
case of hoeden has to do with an important universal phonological con-
straint mentioned above: syllables should, if possible, begin with a conson-
ant, the No Empty Onset constraint. This constraint refers to the notion
‘onset’ as a constituent of the syllable. Let me therefore introduce
here the basic notions of syllable structure. The following structure of
the syllable is usually assumed, illustrated in Figure 7.6 for the English
word stump.
Fig. 7.6 The syllable structure of stump
The asymmetry between phonological and morphological structure
observed with respect to hoeden shows that the No Empty Onset constraint
is ranked higher than Alignment Right. If Alignment Right ranked higher
than No Empty Onset, we would have to syllabify hoeden as hoed.en which
would result in the wrong phonetic form [hut.en]. Ranking of No Empty
Onset above Alignment Right is therefore a partial speciWcation of the
interface between morphology and phonology in the grammar of Dutch.
We might be tempted to jump to a rash conclusion on the basis of the
facts discussed above: phonology cannot see the internal morphological
structure of words, and deals with complex words in the same way as it
deals with simplex words. Hence we do not need detailed speciWcations of
this interface. This conclusion is incorrect, however. A clear counterexam-
ple is that in many languages the morphological structure of compounds
plays an essential role in the computation of their phonetic forms, with
respect to both syllabiWcation and stress patterns. Consider the following
minimal pair of compounds of Dutch, with their syllabiWcation:
(4) [[bal]N[kanker]N]N ‘‘testicle cancer’’ (bal)(kan)(ker)
[[balk]N[anker]N]N ‘‘beam brace’’ (balk)(an)(ker)
The diVerence between these two compounds, which consist of the same
sequence of segments, is audible through their diVerent syllabiWcation
patterns. This is only possible if the syllabiWcation of compounds respects
160 interfaces
morphological structure. In particular, the requirement that the left bound-
ary of the second constituent aligns with a syllable boundary (expressed
by the constraint Alignment Left) is ranked higher than No Empty Onset.
Hence, in the second example, the second syllable begins with an empty
onset. Speakers of Dutch also notice this ranking through the eVect of
FinDevoicing: in a compound such as handappel ‘‘lit. hand-apple, eating
apple’’, with the morphological structure [[hand ]N[appel ]N]N and the
phonetic form [hAnt.A.pel], the /d/ is realized as [t], and hence it must be
located in coda position in order to be subject to devoicing. The example of
hoeden with the morphological structure [[hoed ]en], on the other hand,
shows that alignment of the right edge of a morphological stem
with a syllable boundary (Alignment Right) is less important than the No
Empty Onset Constraint. Hence we conclude to the following constraint
ranking (>> ¼ ‘‘ranked higher than’’):
(5) Alignment Left >> No Empty Onset >> Alignment Right
This ranking for Dutch (identical to the one for English) makes correct
predictions for preWxed words of Dutch, where the left stem boundary
usually coincides with a syllable boundary. The complex verb ver-as ‘‘to
incinerate’’ with the morphological structure [ver[as]N]V, for instance, syl-
labiWes in careful speech as ver.as, not as ver.as. This results in the second
syllable of this word having an empty onset.
In conclusion, morphological structure may aVect the computation of
phonological forms. Hence, the internal morphological structure of words
must be accessible to phonology, and the interface theory should specify in
which ways the morphological structure of a complex word determines its
phonetic form.
The representation of the phonological structure of the compounds in (4)
was in fact simpliWed for ease of exposition. The foot boundaries and
prosodic word boundaries were omitted. What should be added is that
each of the compound constituents consists of a phonological word of its
own (in their turn each consisting of one foot). Since the phonological word
is the domain of syllabiWcation, we will get the result that in a compound
the edges of its constituents coincide with phonological word boundaries.
Since the phonological word is the domain of syllabiWcation, this implies that
these morphological boundaries will also coincide with syllable boundaries.
The necessity to distinguish words in the morphological sense and phono-
logical words is a clear illustration of the asymmetry between phonology
the interface between morphology and phonology 161
and morphology: a morphological word may correspond with more than
one phonological word. In many languages this is the case for compounds.
SyllabiWcationpatternsareonetypeofevidenceforthis,asdiscussedabove.
The domain of application of phonological rules or constraints is
another source of evidence for the prosodic structure of complex words.
In the case of Hungarian compounds, vowel harmony serves to determine
their prosodic structure. Vowel harmony is the phenomenon that all vowels
of a word share certain properties. In the case of Hungarian, the vowels of
a word are all either front vowels or back vowels. Front vowels are
articulated in the anterior part of the mouth, and back vowels in the back
part. Vowel harmony implies that many suYxes have two allomorphs, one
with a front, and one with a back vowel, as illustrated by the following
words (Siptár and Törkenczy 2000: 63):
(6) a. Buda-nak ‘‘Buda-dat’’, Pest-nek ‘‘Pest-dat’’
b. perd-ül- és-etek-töl ‘‘from your (pl) twirling around’’
ford-ul- ás-otok-tól ‘‘from your (pl) turning around’’
In (6b) we observe four diVerent suYxes. Each of them has two allomorphs,
one with a front vowel, and one with a back vowel. The diVerence is
governed by the fact that the two roots of these words have a front vowel
/e/ and a back vowel /o/ respectively. (The acute accents on the vowel letters
of Hungarian orthography indicate length.)
The name Budapest for the capital of Hungary is a compound in which
the names of the two cities Buda and Pest have been combined. It seems
to violate the phonological constraint of vowel harmony because the Wrst
two vowels are back, and the last one is a front one. However, there is
no violation under the assumption that the domain of vowel harmony is
the phonological word, not the word in the morphological sense.
After having read (6a), you may wonder which is the correct dative suYx
for Budapest, -nek or -nak? After all, it is a suYx of the whole compound.
The correct one is -nek, since the dative suYx is a cohering suYx, and hence
forms one phonological word with the preceding material. We thus see here
another instantiation of the asymmetry between morphological and
phonological structure that we discussed above. Here are the two relevant
structures for Budapestnek:
(7) morphological structure: [[[buda]N[pest]N]Nnek]N
prosodic structure: (buda)ø (pestnek)ø
162 interfaces
As you can see, the vowels within each of the phonological words are
harmonic. In the Wrst phonological word all vowels are back, in the second
one they are all front.
The distinction between cohering and non-cohering suYxes is also relevant
for YidiÆ. In this Australian language, monosyllabic inXectional and
derivational suYxes are cohering, whereas disyllabic ones are non-cohering,
and form a phonological word of their own. We have to make that assump-
tion in order to account for the distribution of stressed and unstressed
syllables. Normally, words in YidiÆ begin either with a stressed or an
unstressed syllable, but always display an alternating pattern of stressed
and unstressed syllables. In complex words with disyllabic suYxes, however,
we Wnd both sequences of two unstressed and of two stressed syllables across
word-internal morphological boundaries, since disyllabic suYxes begin a new
phonological word. The domain of stress assignment is the phonological
word, not the grammatical word. Hence, YidiÆ has words like the following
(Dixon 1977: 93).
(8) rhythmic pattern
wáNal-múday ‘‘boomerang-comit.abs’’ (wá.Nal)ø (mú.day)ø
bigú:n-mudá:y-Ædu ‘‘shield-comit-erg’’ (bi.gú:n)ø (mu.dá:y.Ædu)ø
non-rhythmic pattern
wáNal-mudá:y-Ndu ‘‘boomerang-comit-erg’’ (wá.Nal)ø (mu.dá:y.Ædu)ø
bigú:n-múday ‘‘shield-comit.abs’’ (bi.gú:n)ø (mú.day)ø
(The acute accents in these examples indicate stress.) The comitative suYx
in the second and third word has a lengthened vowel due to the presence of
stress. In the third word, both the second and the third syllable are
unstressed, whereas in the fourth word the second and the third syllable
are both stressed. The explanation for this disturbance of the rhythmic
alternation between stressed and unstressed syllables is that the domain of
this alternation is the phonological word. Since the suYxes used here are
disyllabic, they begin a phonological word of their own.
In Germanic languages we Wnd many non-cohering suYxes that derive
historically from lexemes, such as English -wise and -like. Although these
two suYxes have lost their lexical status, they still behave as phonological
words of their own, as can be concluded from the fact that they bear
secondary stress (móney-wı̀se, bóok-lı̀ke), just like the right constituents
of most English compounds. Some examples of non-cohering suYxes of
Dutch are:
the interface between morphology and phonology 163
(9) -achtig /Axteª/ rood-achtig ‘‘reddish’’
-baar /ba:r/ eet-baar ‘‘edible’’
-dom /dOm/ adel-dom ‘‘nobility’’
-heid /hEid/ schoon-heid ‘‘beauty’’
Quite revealing is the contrast between the suYx -achtig and its semantic-
ally equivalent competitor, the cohering suYx -ig; both occur with the
adjectival stem rood ‘‘red’’, and contribute the same meaning ‘‘-ish’’, but
show diVerent phonological behaviour:
(10) rood-achtig [ro:t.Ax.tex] rod-ig [ro:.dex]
Since -achtig forms a phonological word by itself, it is an independent
domain of syllabiWcation. Hence, the /d/ of rood occurs in syllable-Wnal
position, and is devoiced due to the constraint FinDevoicing. On the other
hand, the suYx -ig is cohering, and forms one prosodic word with its base.
Therefore, the morpheme-Wnal /d/ of rood Wlls an onset position in rodig,
and will be thus exempted from being devoiced.
Non-cohering aYxes are not necessarily phonological words. The Eng-
lish suYx -less /les/ is non-cohering, as we saw above. Yet, it does not form
a phonological word of its own, and cannot bear secondary stress since its
vowel is a schwa.
A characteristic of Dutch non-cohering suYxes that are phonological
words is that they allow for backward gapping. In that respect, they are like
compounds at the level of prosodic structure. Thus, they pattern with
compounds with respect to gapping: of two identical phonological words,
the Wrst can be deleted (Booij 1985):
(11) Gapping in compounds
land- en tuinbouw ‘‘agri(culture) and horticulture’’
wespen- en bijensteken ‘‘wasp (stings) and bee stings’’
hoofd- of nevenaccent ‘‘main (stress) or secondary stress’’
Gapping in suYxed words
storm- en regenachtig ‘‘storm(y) and rainy’’
zicht- en tastbaar ‘‘vis(ible) and tangible’’
christen- en heidendom ‘‘christian(ity) and heathendom’’
eenzijdig- of partijdigheid ‘‘onesided(ness) or partiality’’
A cohering suYx, on the other hand, cannot be gapped since it is not a
phonological word. For instance, the gapping of the cohering suYx -ig in
the phrase rodig en groenig ‘‘reddish and greenish’’ is impossible witness the
illformedness of *rood- en groenig.
164 interfaces
Similar things can be said about preWxes. PreWxes in Germanic languages
like Dutch with at least one full vowel often form a prosodic word of their
own, and hence such preWxed words are prosodic compounds, with the
concomitant stress pattern (main stress on the Wrst constituent, secondary
stress on the second):
(12) PreWx Example
aarts-/a:rts/ áarts-vı̀jand ‘‘arch-enemy’’
her-/hEr/ hér-bebòssing ‘‘reforestation’’
ex-/Eks/ éx-vròuw ‘‘ex-wife’’
anti-/Anti/ ánti-betòging ‘‘anti-demonstration’’
PreWxes that are prosodic words of their own lend themselves easily for
being promoted to the status of lexeme. In English and Dutch, for instance,
ex can also be used nowadays as a word to denote one’s former partner.
This complies with the constraint that lexical words (non-function words)
must be well-formed prosodic words.
So far we have seen how the morphological and the prosodic structure of
words relate. This relationship also has an eVect on the phonological
makeup of aYxes. It is an old observation made by Roman Jakobson
that the phonological make-up of aYxes tends to diVer from that of lexical
morphemes. In Quechua, we Wnd a number of suYxes that begin with
consonant clusters that are never found at the beginning of lexical mor-
phemes, as is illustrated by the following word (van de Kerke 1996: 126):
(13) maylla-wa-rqa-nki-ku
wash—1obj-past-2sg-pl
‘‘You have washed us’’
Since both the lexical root and the suYxes end in a vowel, clusters such as /rq/
and /nk/ at the beginning of a suYx will be split up in the prosodic structure,
and assigned to diVerent syllables. The syllabiWcation of the example (13)
will be mayl.la.war.qan.ki.ku, and hence creates no phonotactic problems.
Words must indeed be pronounceable on their own, unlike aYxes. That is,
words need to comply with the requirements on well-formed phonological
words. Dutch requires phonological words to have at least one full vowel
(that is, a vowel that is not the schwa). The schwa is a special vowel in that it
cannot bear stress, and hence creates an unstressable syllable. Consequently,
it is never the case that the only vowel of a Dutch word is the schwa (with the
exception of function words such as determiners). On the other hand, there
the interface between morphology and phonology 165
are many Dutch suYxes with schwa as their only vowel, such as -er /er/.
This is to be expected, as suYxes will not appear as phonological words
themselves (note that the non-cohering suYxes listed in (9) all contain a full
vowel). A related remarkable property of suYxes is that they may consist of
consonants only, again unlike words. In Germanic languages most conson-
antal suYxes consist of /s/, /t/, or a combination thereof, consonants that
can freely occur at the end of word-Wnal syllables. To conclude, we can make
the generalization that the diVerent subclasses of morphemes of a language
(lexical morphemes, preWxes, suYxes, etc.) are phonologically shaped in such
a way that they can lead to phonologically well-formed words.
This relationship between morphology and phonology will also help us
to understand the notion clitic. Clitics are ‘small words’ of functional, non-
lexical categories such as pronouns and determiners that ‘lean on’ (the
word clitic derives from the Greek verb klinein ‘‘to lean’’) a preceding or
following host word, and cannot appear as phonological words by them-
selves. For instance, in Italian lexical morphemes have to consist of at least
two syllables (there are a handful of exceptions such as re ‘‘king’’). Most
pronouns, however, are monosyllabic. These clitics therefore take an adja-
cent word as their host, and form one prosodic constituent with that word.
The Italian clitic pronouns precede their host word (this is called proclisis),
except in the case of inWnitival and imperative verbal forms that require the
clitics to follow them (enclisis):
(14) proclisis: me lo racconta
me it tell.3sg
‘‘(s)he tells me it’’
enclisis: racconta-me-lo
tell.imp-me-it
‘‘tell me it’’
Clitics therefore share a property with cohering aYxes: their phonological
dependence on a host. In this respect, proclitics are like preWxes, and
enclitics like suYxes. Words in the morphosyntactic sense do not always
correspond in a one-to-one fashion to words in the phonological sense.
Clitics form another illustration of this asymmetry between morphosyntac-
tic and prosodic structure, and the study of clitics belongs (partially) to the
study of interface between phonological and morphosyntactic structure.
The similarity in phonological behaviour of aYxes and clitics makes it
sometimes diYcult to determine if a morpheme is to be considered an aYx
or a clitic. Consider the following examples from English:
166 interfaces
(15) a. the king of England’s hat
b. the boy across the road’s cycle
c. the man I talked about’s car
The morpheme s used here is historically a genitive suYx, but it has
developed into a clitic that can be attached at the end of the possessor
phrase. Hence, it is sometimes called a phrasal aYx. Whereas suYxes are
attached to words of particular categories, the morpheme s attaches not
only to nouns but to whatever word happens to occur in phrase-Wnal
position, so even to a preposition such as about, as in (15c).
Other examples of suYx-like clitics might be claimed to exist in Icelandic.
In this language, the deWnite article may be ‘suYxed’ to the preceding noun.
It can also occur as a free article before a noun preceded by an adjective.
Both the noun and the ‘suYxed’ deWnite article are inXected for number
and case. Consider the following singular forms of the word hestur ‘‘horse’’
given in Table 7.1. As you can see, both the noun and the deWnite article are
inXected for case. The bound forms of the article diVer from the full forms
in that the initial /h/ is omitted. A possible interpretation of these facts is
that the article is an enclitic when occurring after the noun.
The diVerence between aYxes and clitics can sometimes be seen in the
diVerential eVect that they have on the phonetic form of words. Dutch has
a clitic pronoun er /er/ ‘her’ that is attached prosodically to a host word on
its left. This causes resyllabiWcation of the word þ clitic sequence, just like
vowel-initial cohering suYxes do. The diVerence is that attachment of a
suYx pre-empts application of Wnal devoicing to stem-Wnal obstruents,
whereas clitics with a similar phonological form do not, as shown by the
following minimal pair in (16):
(16) vind-er ‘‘Wnd-er’’ [vind-er] vs (ik) vind er [vin.ter] ‘‘(I) Wnd her’’
That is, Wnal devoicing must have applied to the Wnite verb form vind before
the clitic is attached. Therefore, clitics are sometimes called postlexical aYxes
Table 7.1. The singular paradigms of hestur and the deWnite article
free article noun noun þ suYxed article
nom hin-n hest-ur hestur-inn
acc hin-n hest hest-inn
dat hin-um hest-i hesti-num
gen hin-s hest-s hests-ins
Source: Thráinsson 1994: 156.
the interface between morphology and phonology 167
since they have to be attached after the rules of word phonology (the lexical
phonology) of the language have applied. The attachment of the clitic er
triggers resyllabiWcation, because the clitic forms one prosodic word with
the preceding verb. Hence, the /d/ of vind Wrst devoices in coda position,
and subsequently, at the postlexical level, it moves to an onset position.
7.3 Allomorphy and affix competition
Morphemes may exhibit variation in their phonological shape. This vari-
ation in shape may have nothing to do with phonology. This is the case
when languages have morphological systems with more than one stem-
form; each stem-form has to be used for particular inXectional categories
(Chapter 6). Allomorphy may also be a completely predictable eVect of
phonology, as shown in the previous section for the allomorphy related to
Wnal devoicing in Dutch. In other cases, the phonological alternations are
regular too, but apply to a restricted set of words only. For instance, the
Dutch diminutive suYx has Wve allomorphs, whose distribution is predict-
able (the letter e stands for a schwa, and ng indicates the velar nasal):
(17) a. -je after stem-Wnal obstruents;
b. -etje after sonorant consonants preceded by a short vowel with primary or
secondary stress;
c. -pje after stem-Wnal /m/ except in cases falling under b;
d. -kje after stems ending in the velar nasal /N/;
e. -tje elsewhere
This allomorphy is illustrated by the words in (18):
(18) base noun diminutive
a. lip ‘‘lip’’ lip-je
hek ‘‘gate’’ hek-je
b. ring ‘‘ring’’ ring-etje
serı́ng ‘‘lilac’’ sering-etje
c. riem ‘‘belt’’ riem-pje
bez[e]m ‘‘sweep’’ bezem-pje
d. kóning ‘‘king’’ konin-kje
páling ‘‘eel’’ palin-kje
e. ree ‘‘deer’’ ree-tje
traan ‘‘tear’’ traan-tje
168 interfaces
The diVerent allomorphs of the diminutive suYx might be derived from an
underlying form /tje/ that surfaces in (18e), by assuming rules that delete the
/t/ (18a), insert a schwa (18b), or assimilate the /t/ to the place of articulation
of the preceding nasal (18c–d). However, these rules apply exclusively to
diminutive nouns. For instance, there is no general rule of schwa insertion in
the context mentioned in (17b). The Dutch complex word stil-te ‘‘silence’’,
for instance, is not realized as [stØlete]. Hence, these rules must mention
the morphological property [þdiminutive] in their structural description.
This means that they are morphologically conditioned phonological rules.
In other cases, the rule applies to a Wxed set of lexical items. That is,
the alternation is lexically conditioned. This applies to a number of mono-
syllabic Dutch nouns: in the plural form (and some derived words as well)
the stem vowel is lengthened, which is a relict of the process of Open
Syllable Lengthening (OSL) that was active in Early Germanic:
(19) singular plural
d[A]g ‘‘day’’ d[a:]gen
h[O]f ‘‘court’’ h[o:]ven
w[E]g ‘‘road’’ w[e:]gen
If one assumes a phonological rule for such alternations, the relevant nouns
have to be marked as undergoing this rule in the lexicon as [þOSL], and
this diacritic feature has to be mentioned in the structural description of the
rule as well. So this rule may be formulated as follows:
(20) V ! V: in the context —)
[þOSL]
The word dag, for instance, will be marked as [þOSL] in the lexicon, and
hence all its segments carry that diacritic feature.
It might also be the case that a rule is governed both by morphological
and by lexical features, as is the case for German umlaut. This is the process
in which the back vowels of stems are fronted before certain suYxes that
originally contained front vowels or glides. As the examples (21a) show,
application of umlaut depends on the individual stem (Wiese 1996: 188):
(21) a. Umlaut No umlaut
Vater ‘‘father’’–Väter-chen ‘‘dim’’ Onkel ‘‘uncle’’–Onkel-chen ‘‘dim’’
laufen ‘‘to walk’’–läuf-t ‘‘3sg’’ rufen ‘‘to call’’–ruf-t ‘‘3sg’’
b. Hund ‘‘dog’’–Hünd-in ‘‘dog, fem’’ Hund-e ‘‘dog, pl’’, Hund-chen
Hünd-chen ‘‘dog, dim’’ ‘‘dog, dim’’
the interface between morphology and phonology 169
The examples Hunde and Hundchen in (21b) show that lexical items may
have to be marked as exceptions to umlaut. In the case of the diminutive
noun for Hund, the umlauted form is the standard one, but the other one
also occurs. The lexical stem Hund does allow for umlaut, as in Hün-din,
and the plural suYx and diminutive suYx both trigger umlaut. Yet there is
no umlaut in the plural form, and umlaut is optional in the diminutive
form. A useful cover term for such morphologically and/or lexically
conditioned phonological rules is morpholexical rule.
This is not the whole story about allomorphy, however. Consider the
following pairs of related words in English:
(22) drama, dramat-ic, dramat-ist
Plato, platon-ist, platon-ism
Intheseexamples,the basewords dramaand Plato have ashort form,whereas
stem-forms with an additional consonant are used for derivation. This is a
reXex of the history of these originally Greek words: the long form is the
underlying form, but the stem-Wnal consonant was dropped in nom.sg forms.
The eVectforpresent-dayEnglishisthatthelongformistobeusedforsuYxes
of the non-native learned stratum, whereas the short form is to be used before
native, Germanic suYxes, and with preWxes. For instance, the plural form of
drama is dramas, not dramats. Thus, the distribution of these allomorphs is
stated in morphological terms. It is hard to see how we might provide an
insightful account of this kind of allomorphy in terms of phonological rules.
Allomorphy as a reXex of history is also found in word pairs such as the
following:
(23) deduce deduct-ion
induce induct-ion
produce product-ion
reduce reduct-ion
This allomorphy is a reXex of the system of diVerent stems for Latin verbs:
derivation takes the participial stem form of the Latin verb ducere, duct, as
its base (cf. section 6.3).
Historically determined allomorphy is also found in the formation of
French de-adjectival adverbs in -ment, see (24). The feminine forms of the
adjectives in (24) are irregular, except the Wrst one. The data show that
the suYx -ment takes the feminine form of the adjective as stem for adverb
formation. Note, however, that there is no feminine meaning involved
170 interfaces
in the meaning of the adverb. This is a case of paradigmatically governed
allomorphy: the correct form of the adjectival stem is determined by
referring to that of a paradigmatically related form, the feminine form.
Historically, this is the eVect of the suYx -ment. It derives from the
ablative form of the Latin feminine noun mens ‘‘mind’’ that required the
feminine form of the preceding adjective, as in clara mente ‘‘clear-abl.sg
mind-abl.sg., with a clear mind’’.
(24) masc adj. fem adj. Adverb
lent ‘‘slow’’ lente lente-ment
beau ‘‘beautiful’’ belle belle-ment
vert ‘‘green’’ verte verte-ment
fou ‘‘mad’’ folle folle-ment
The examples discussed so far are cases of stem allomorphy. This kind of
allomorphy is also found in compounds where the Wrst constituent may have
a form that cannot be used when it is used as a word of its own. Wellknown
cases are the linking elements in Germanic languages, illustrated here for
Swedish (Anderson 1994: 277):
(25) land-s-ting ‘‘city council’’, läs-e-bok ‘‘textbook’’, kvinn-o-arbete ‘‘women’s
work’’
Some of these linking elements are old genitive endings. Noun phrases with
an inXected modifying noun became compounds, and thus the inXectional
ending got trapped in between the two constituents:
(26) [N-gen N]NP > [N-linking element-N]N
Subsequently, such compounds served as models in the coining of new
compounds that, by analogy to existing compounds, got these linking
elements as well. Phonologically, these linking elements form one phono-
logical word with the Wrst constituent of compounds, as we can conclude
from word-internal gapping in Dutch compounds such as the following one:
(27) wespen-en bijen-steken ‘‘wasp stings and bee stings’’
[[wesp]Nen[steken]N]N en [[bij]Nen[steken]N]N
(wes.pen)ø(ste.ken)ø(en)ø(bij.en)ø(ste.ken)ø
This example shows that the linking element is not included in the gapping
and belongs to the Wrst phonological word of compounds, as is also shown
by the prosodic structure of the non-gapped compounds in (27).
the interface between morphology and phonology 171
Let us now have a look at another kind of allomorphy, aYx allomorphy.
Dutch has two counterparts to the English deverbal and denominal suYx
-er: the suYxes -er and -aar. These two suYxes look like allomorphs in
the sense that they are phonologically similar. However, it is not possible
to assign them a common underlying form, and derive the two surface
forms by means of well-motivated general phonological rules or constraints
of Dutch. There is no general phonological constraint for Dutch that
vowels in word-Wnal unstressed syllables must be reduced to schwa.
Hence, -er cannot be derived phonologically from -aar. So in fact you
can see them as competing aYxes: diVerent aYxes with the same meaning
and domain of application. When the degree of phonological similarity
between competing aYxes is considerable, they may be considered
allomorphs of one morpheme. When the similarity is less, it is better
to regard them as distinct morphemes, and thus in a relationship that
resembles the suppletive one between the stem-forms good and bet- of the
lexeme good.
The basis for choosing between the suYxes -er and -aar is the following:
-aar is used after a stem ending in an unstressed syllable, with /l/, /r/, or /n/
as its Wnal consonant (these are the coronal sonorant consonants of Dutch);
-er is used elsewhere.
(28) bedel/be:del/ ‘‘to beg’’ bedel-aar /be:dela:r/ ‘‘begger’’
luister /lVyster/ ‘‘to listen’’ luister-aar /lVystera:r/ ‘‘listener’’
reken /re:ken/ ‘‘to compute’’ reken-aar /re:kena:r/ ‘‘computer’’
bezem /be:zem/ ‘‘to sweep’’ bezem-er /be:zemer/ ‘‘sweeper’’
verdedig /vErde:deg/ ‘‘to defend’’ verdedig-er /vErde:deeger/ ‘‘defender’’
bak /bAk/ ‘‘to bake’’ bakk-er /bAker/ ‘‘baker’’
It is possible to account for this pattern by assigning a phonological
subcategorization feature to the suYx -aar that speciWes its restricted
distribution (only after stem-Wnal coronal sonorants preceded by a schwa).
The suYx -er does not need to have such a subcategorization feature: it is
the default suYx that can be used elsewhere. The priority of -aar above -er
for verbs ending in an unstressed syllable with /l, r, n/ can be taken care of
by Panini’s Principle introduced in Chapter 5. Recall that this principle
states that if two or more rules compete, the more speciWc rules get priority
over the less speciWc rules, and that the application of the more speciWc rule
pre-empts application of the more general one. In the case of the base word
bedel the suYx -aar will be selected, and hence suYxation with -er is
172 interfaces
excluded. The base word bezem, on the other hand, although it ends in an
unstressed syllable, does not end in a coronal sonorant since the /m/ is a
labial consonant. Thus, attachment of -aar is impossible, and -er will be
attached.
This analysis can be qualiWed as an analysis that makes use of input
constraints: each competing suYx imposes certain requirements on its
input forms. The drawback of such an analysis is that it does not provide
any explanation for this particular selection pattern. The factor behind this
pattern is most probably the avoidance of a sequence of two unstressed
syllables. If we added -er after an unstressed syllable, we would get
a sequence of two unstressed syllables. Germanic languages strive for a
parsing of their words into disyllabic trochees. That is, ideally, the prosodic
form of each word consists of one or more trochees. In addition, there can
be monosyllabic feet if the relevant syllable has a full vowel, and is long
enough. Consider the word reken-aar and its ill-formed counterpart reken-
er. Their prosodic structure in terms of syllables and feet will be as follows
(syllable boundaries indicated by dots):
(29) a. (re:.ke)F(na:r)F
b. (re:.ke.)Fner
In (29b), the last syllable cannot be made part of a foot (that is, cannot be
parsed into a foot), because it does not have a full vowel. Hence, (29a) is
more optimal from the point of view of prosodic structure. This prosodic
structure correctly implies that the last syllable also bears a degree of stress,
i.e. secondary stress.
This selection process of competing allomorphs can be modelled in
terms of the optimality-theoretical tableaux introduced in section 7.2:
each combination of a stem and an allomorph is a candidate, and the ranked
set of phonological constraints will determine the optimal candidate.
The advantage of this theory is that it makes use of output constraints.
The crucial constraints involved here are ParseSyll, Foot-Min, and Foot-
Max. ParseSyll requires syllables to be made part of feet, Foot-Max requires
feet to be maximally binary, and Foot-Min requires feet to be minimally
binary. The computation is shown in Figure 7.7.
As you can see, the ranking of ParseSyll and Foot-Max is not crucial in
these cases. What is crucial is that these two are ranked higher than Foot-
Min. As a result of this ranking, the Wrst candidate is designated as the
optimal one.
the interface between morphology and phonology 173
In the analysis outlined here, the selection of these two competing suYxes
is done by output constraints. Such constraints thus play an important role
in the interface between morphology and phonology: morphology
provides a number of alternatives, equivalent from the morphological
point of view, and the phonology then computes which of them is optimal
from the phonological point of view.
This does not mean that phonological subcategorization constraints are
superXuous. For instance, we still have to state that -aar can only occur
after stems ending in a coronal sonorant consonant (that is, /l/, /r/, or /n/).
Therefore, the deverbal noun for bezem ‘‘to sweep’’ is bezemer [be:.ze.mer]
even though this deverbal noun ends in a sequence of two unstressed
syllables. Recall also that these constraints are all violable. For instance,
Dutch diminutives such as ball-etje [bAletje] ‘‘ball, dim’’ and kamm-etje
[kAmetje] ‘‘comb, dim’’ end in a sequence of two unstressed syllables, and
hence ParseSyll will be violated. In this case there is no morphological
alternative that can be used to avoid this violation. In other words, when
necessary, morphology takes precedence over phonology, even if this leads
to less optimal phonological structures.
Another example of the role of prosody in allomorph selection comes
from Biak, a language spoken in New Guinea. This language uses either the
inWxes -w- and -y- or the preWxes wa- and i- for 2sg and 3sg forms of the
verb respectively (Table 7.2). The choice between inWx and preWx is lexically
governed, as illustrated by (a–b). In the b-examples, we might have
expected the inWxed forms rwov and ryov, but these are not the forms
used. However, if the verbal stem begins with a consonant cluster, it is
always the preWx allomorph that has to be chosen since an inWx would lead
to phonotactically impossible consonant sequences (c–e).
In conclusion, even if allomorphs cannot be derived from a common
underlying form, it is nevertheless possible to make phonological general-
izations concerning their distribution.
Fig. 7.7 OT-tableau for rekenaar
174 interfaces
7.4 Cyclicity and co-phonologies
In many languages, the stress patterns of complex words are, at least
partially, determined by their morphological structure. All Germanic lan-
guages exhibit this kind of interface between morphology and phonology.
A simple example is the way in which the stress patterns of compounds
have to be computed. The English compound sugar cookie has primary
stress on its Wrst syllable, and secondary stress on its penultimate one: súgar
còokie. This stress pattern can be computed as follows. First, we assign
stress to each constituent. Both words have penultimate stress. The second
step is to determine which of these two stresses is prominent. The rule
for English nominal compounds is that the stressed syllable of the Wrst
constituent has the highest prominence. A traditional way of formalizing
this type of computation is to assume that phonological rules of stress
assignment apply cyclically, in an outward fashion where one begins with
the smallest constituents:
(30) [[sugar] [cookie]]
1st cycle, Main Stress Rule __1___ __1____
2nd cycle, Compound Stress Rule __1_______2____
On the Wrst cycle, the Main Stress Rule of English assigns primary stress to
one of the vowels of each constituent. On the second cycle, the Compound
Stress Rule reassigns primary stress to the Wrst primary stressed vowel, and
causes all other stresses to be automatically lowered by one degree.
This formal machinery, from Chomsky and Halle (1968), is outdated by
now as far as the analysis of stress patterns is concerned, but serves well to
grasp the idea of cyclic application of rules. In contrast to Chomsky and
Halle’s analysis, stress is considered nowadays as a property of prosodic
Table 7.2. Allomorph selection in Biak
stem 2sg 3 sg gloss
a. ra rwa rya to go
b. rov warov irov to Xy
c. kvok wakvok ikvok to stand up
d. snai wasnai isnai to be clear
e. smai wasmai ismai to have
Source: W. van den Heuvel, pers. comm.
the interface between morphology and phonology 175
constituents. Hence, the inXuence of morphological structure on stress
patterns of complex words is indirect. First, we map morphological
structure onto prosodic structure, and the prosodic constituents are
marked for stress. One way of doing this is to use the labels ‘strong’ (s)
and ‘weak’ (w). The prosodic structure of sugar cookie will hence look as
in Figure 7.8.
Fig. 7.8 The prosodic structure of sugar cookie
Strong–weak is a relation between two sister constituents. One of them is
the head of a prosodic category such as the foot. The Wrst syllable of sugar
cookie is the strongest syllable of the strongest phonological word, and
hence it carries the primary stress of this compound. The strongest syllable
of the weak phonological word, coo, has secondary stress. In short, we do
not need cyclicity as a special principle of rule application. The interface
between morphology and phonology discussed here is fully covered by the
following two mapping principles for English:
(i) each constituent of a compound corresponds with a phonological
word;
(ii) in the case of N þ N compounds, the Wrst phonological word is the
strongest.
This approach also enables us to give an adequate account of the stress
patterns of complex words with non-cohering suYxes. This can be illus-
trated by means of the Dutch word draagbaar that has two meanings:
(31) compound [[draag]V[baar] N]N ‘‘stretcher’’
derived word [[draag]Vbaar]A ‘‘port-able’’
The suYx -baar is one of the non-cohering suYxes of Dutch. Therefore,
from the prosodic point of view both words are prosodic compounds, and
have the same prosodic structure (draag)ø (baar)ø. The Wrst syllable carries
main stress, the second one secondary stress, as is represented correctly by
this prosodic structure. The same prosodic status holds for many preWxes of
176 interfaces
Greek and Latin origin in Germanic languages that also carry stress, as
illustrated here for English:
(32) a. main stress on preWx: cóunter-àrgument, súb-sèt
b. secondary stress on preWx: ànti-relı́gious, nèo-classicı́sm,
Another aspect of the role of morphological structure in the computation of
the phonetic forms of complex words is the phenomenon of co-phonologies.
As we saw in section 3.3, the morphological system of a language may
consist of more than one stratum. Each stratum may have its own phono-
logical system, that is, its own co-phonology. In Germanic languages, for
instance, words that end in non-native suYxes are stressed in the same way
as simplex words. Hence, they might carry the main stress of the word.
SuYxes of Germanic origin, on the other hand, are mostly stress-neutral:
the addition of such a suYx does not shift the location of main stress
rightward. This is illustrated here for Swedish (Andersson 1994: 278):
(33) Non-native suYxation, stress on last syllable: brygg-eri ‘‘brewery’’,
individual-itet ‘‘individuality’’, dans-ör ‘‘dancer’’, or on penultimate syllable:
prost-inna ‘‘dean’s wife’’;
Native suYxation, stress on Wrst syllable: sök-ande ‘‘search’’, bo-ende ‘‘living’’,
läs-ning ‘‘reading’’, bak-else ‘‘pastry’’
These examples once more show that phonology makes use of morpho-
logical information concerning words.
7.5 The morphological use of phonology
The interface phenomena discussed so far have all been cases in which
phonology makes use of morphological information. The inverse situation,
morphology making use of phonology, is also found in natural languages.
Simple examples are cases in which the use of a particular aYx is
conditioned phonologically. The English comparative suYx -er, for
example, can only—with some minor exceptions—be attached to mono-
syllabic adjectival stems, and to disyllabic stems ending in a light syllable.
In other cases, a periphrastic form with more has to be used.
(34) green greener
silly sillier
obese *obeser / more obese
excellent *excellenter / more excellent
the interface between morphology and phonology 177
Dutch is a language in which prosodic considerations play a role in the
extent to which aYxes can be stacked up in complex words. In the case of
preWxation, a sequence of two unstressed preWxes will be avoided. Recall
that Dutch parses words in trochees (section 7.1). Hence, a sequence of two
unstressed preWxes at the beginning of a morphological word will violate
the condition ParseSyll twice. Stressed preWxes, on the other hand can be
preWxed to preWxed stems. The contrast is shown in (35):
(35) ont-bós ‘‘to deforest’’ *ver-ont-bós ‘‘to destroy through deforestation’’
ón-geluk ‘‘accident’’ ver-ón-geluk ‘‘to die in an accident’’
The past participles of Dutch verbs are formed through circumWxation:
the preWx ge- and the suYx -t/d (regular verbs) or -en (irregular stem-
alternating verbs). However, if the verbal stem begins with an unstressed
preWx, the participial preWx is obligatorily omitted. Thus, a sequence of
unparsable syllables is avoided once more:
(36) Verbal stem Past participle
váng ‘‘catch’’ ge-vang-en
ont-váng ‘‘receive’’ ont-vang-en
stúur ‘‘send’’ ge-stuur-d
be-stúur ‘‘govern’’ be-stuur-d
prè-Wgéer ‘‘preWx’’ ge-pre-Wgeerd
rè-animéer ‘‘reanimate’’ ge-re-animeer-d
The native preWxes ont- and be- do not receive stress at all; the non-native
preWxes pre- and re- receive rhythmic secondary stress. Hence, the latter
preWxes do not block the attachment of the participial preWx ge-.
The morphological use of phonological patterns and categories is a prom-
inent feature in reduplication. Consider the cases in (37) of partial reduplica-
tion in the perfect tense forms of Latin and Greek (Wiltshire and Marantz
2000: 563). In these examples, the perfect stem is formed by preWxing a copy
of a part of the base; the copy is called the reduplicant. Recall that this kind
of reduplication is called partial reduplication because it is not the whole
word that is copied. An example of full reduplication is given in section 2.2.
A Wrst, informal deWnition of the Latin reduplication process is ‘copy the
Wrst syllable of the base’. An alternative formalization is to say that Latin
has a phonologically underspeciWed reduplicative preWx with the abstract
form CV, a sequence of a consonant and a vowel. The sound segments of
the base are then linked to the CV templates, from left to right. Since there
are only two positions, only the Wrst two segments of the base will be
178 interfaces
(37) Base Perfect stem Gloss
Latin curr- cu-curr- run
dic- di-dic- learn
mord- mo-mord- bite
pend- pe-pend- hang
Greek lu- le-lu- wash
ly- le-ly- loose
graph- ge-graph- write
klin- ke-klin- incline
copied, as illustrated in (38) for the perfect stem pepend-. This is the analysis
proposed in Marantz (1982). It can be qualiWed as autosegmental morph-
ology, since in this kind of analysis the abstract CV-tier of phonological
structure, which is an autonomous layer of phonological structure, has a
morphological role: the CV sequence has a morphological function of its
own. The morphological use of abstract phonological tiers is also exem-
pliWed in section 2.2, in the analysis of the non-concatenative or root-and-
pattern morphology of Hebrew verbal forms.
(38) C V C V C C
j j j j j j
p e n d p e n d
The Greek examples diVer from the Latin ones in that only the initial
consonant of the base is copied. That is, the vowel in the reduplicative CV
preWx is a Wxed one, e. Thus, the V of the Greek CV-preWx is already linked
to a vowel /e/ on the segmental tier.
The following examples from Ilokano, a language of the Philippines,
show that the reduplicative aYx of this language cannot be speciWed as
‘‘copy the Wrst syllable’’, but has to be speciWed in terms of a constant,
abstract phonological shape (McCarthy and Prince 1998: 285):
(39) kaldı́ ‘‘goat’’ kal-kaldı́ ‘‘goats’’
púsa ‘‘cat’’ pus-púsa ‘‘cats’’
In the Wrst example, the reduplicant is identical to the Wrst syllable. In the
second example, however, this is not the case, since the Wrst consonant of
the second syllable is also copied. So we have to conclude that the redupli-
cative aYx has to be speciWed as a heavy (or bimoraic) syllable, that is, a
the interface between morphology and phonology 179
syllable that either ends in a consonant, or has a long vowel. This kind of
syllable is referred to as a bimoraic syllable: both a long vowel (VV) and a
VC sequence count as two morae.
The Ilokano example serves to illustrate the basic idea of prosodic
morphology which claims that the shape of reduplicative aYxes has to be
deWned in terms of prosodic categories such as the syllable or the prosodic
word. In the Latin case, the reduplicative preWx can be deWned as a light
syllable (that is, a CV syllable), and in Ilokano as a heavy syllable. Another
possible form of the reduplicant is that of a minimal prosodic word.
The minimal prosodic word of a language is often a disyllabic foot.
Consider the following examples from the Australian language Diyari,
where reduplication serves a number of morphological functions (Austin
1981; cited in McCarthy and Prince 1998: 286–7).
(40) kanku-kanku ‘‘boy’’
kulku-kulkuNa ‘‘to jump’’
tj
ilpa-tj
ilparku ‘‘bird species’’
In these examples, the reduplicant consists of two syllables, which form a
minimal prosodic word. The segments of the base are mapped onto this
abstract prosodic pattern, and thus maximally two syllables of the base are
copied.The thirdexampleisquiteinterestingbecause thelastconsonantofthe
second syllable is not copied. The reason for this is that an open syllable is
the unmarked form of a syllable, and thus preferred. In the Wrst syllable of the
reduplicant, on the other hand, we Wnd a closed syllable, a more marked
syllable structure. We need this closed syllable because otherwise we would
havetoskipa segment ofthe baseinthe mappingofsegmentalstructure to the
prosodically deWned reduplicative preWx. So it is only the second syllable that
canhavetheunmarkedformofanopensyllable.Theappearanceofunmarked
structure in this kind of morphological operation is called ‘the emergence of
the unmarked’. It can be nicely modelled by means of Optimality Theoretical
tableaux. We need the following, informally circumscribed constraints:
(41) Reduplicant ¼ Minimal Prosodic Word
Open Syllable: a syllable is open
No Skipping
If we assume that No Skipping is ranked higher than Open Syllable, we see
that of the following candidates, the Wrst is the optimal one. This is shown
in Figure 7.9. The second and the fourth candidate violate one of the two
180 interfaces
highest ranked constraints, and are therefore ill-formed. The third candi-
date violates the constraint Open Syllable four times, whereas the Wrst
candidate does this only three times. Hence, the fourth violation of Open
Syllable by the third candidate is fatal. Therefore, the Wrst candidate is
qualiWed as the optimal one.
The morphological use of the prosodic category ‘minimal prosodic word’
is also found in the formation of hypocoristics (endearment forms of
proper names) through truncation (see section 1.4), as the following
examples illustrate (Lappe 2002: 135):
(42) German Andreas Andi
Dagmar Daggi
Spanish Alexandrina Dina
Ernesto Neto
French Dominique Dom
Valérie Val
English Patrick Pat/Patty
Elizabeth Liz/Lizzy
In German and Spanish the form of these names is that of a disyllabic foot,
in French the form is that of a heavy syllable, and English has both options.
Both disyllabic feet and heavy syllables can function as minimal prosodic
words.
A last example of the use of phonology in morphology is the use of tonal
morphemes, that is, morphological operations that use tones to signal a
particular morphological category. The Limburgian dialect of Maasbracht
(The Netherlands) is an example of a language that makes use of tone
contrasts for morphological purposes. The contrast is that between a
dragging tone (High–Low–High) versus a falling tone (High–Low), either
of which occurs on the stressed syllable of a word. For instance, the neuter
and feminine forms of a number of adjectives diVer in that the neuter form
tjil.pa.tjil.par.ku
/RED + tjilparku/ RED=MINWORD NO SKIPPING OPEN SYLLABLE
tji.pa.tjil.par.ku
tjil.park.tjil.par.ku
tji.tjil.par.ku *!
**** !
***
F
*! **
**
Fig. 7.9 Reduplication in Diyari
the interface between morphology and phonology 181
has a dragging tone, and the feminine form a falling tone, see (43). This is
another example of autosegmental morphology since it is the tonal tier that
is involved in expressing the morphological categories involved, whereas
the segmental tier remains unchanged.
(43) Neuter, HLH Feminine, HL Gloss
wiis wiis wise
stiif stiif stiV
ªriis ªriis grey
Summary
This chapter focused on the interface between morphology and phonology.
Morphological structure appeared to inXuence the phonetic forms of com-
plex forms through principles of alignment that require phonological
boundaries to coincide with morphological ones. Yet, this alignment is
not perfect, and there are many cases of asymmetry between morphological
and phonological structure. A second form of interaction is the choice
between stem allomorphs or competing aYxes. This choice may be gov-
erned by considerations of phonological optimality. In some cases, the
choice can be insightfully modelled by means of output conditions, as in
Optimality Theory.
The non-isomorphy between prosodic structure and morphological
structure is also the key to the understanding of the phonological similar-
ities between aYxes and clitics.
Morphology makes use of phonology in a number of ways. Morphological
operations may impose phonological constraints on the stems they
operate upon. Phonological processes such as copying and truncation
have morphological functions. Prosodic morphology makes use of
prosodic categories such as the syllable and the prosodic word for
morphological operations.
Questions
1. Show that the following English suffixes must be considered as cohering:
-able, -er, -ing.
182 interfaces
2. The Dutch determiners de ‘‘the’’ and een ‘‘a’’ have the phonological forms
/de/ and /en/ respectively. How can we tell from these phonological forms
that these words must be function words?
3. Why would one prefer to consider the allomorphy that can be observed in
noun–adjective pairs such as Plato–Platonic and realist–realı́stic (-ic/-nic) as
a case of stem allomorphy, rather than as a case of suffix allomorphy?
4. The Italian negative prefixes in- and non- differ in that it is only in- that
undergoes assimilation to a following stem-initial consonant:
ir-regolare ‘‘irregular’’, im-maturo ‘‘immature’’
non-lavabile ‘‘non-washable’’, non-memorizzable ‘‘non-memorizable’’
How might this difference in phonological behaviour be explained?
5. Show that the syllabification pattern of English words with the suffix -er
complies with the constraint ranking in (5).
6. Consider the following case of gapping in Dutch (the parenthesized part
beren of the compound ijsberen is gapped):
ijs(beren) en bruine beren ‘‘lit. ice and brown bears, polar bears and brown
bears’’
How can this case of gapping be used to show that gapping in Dutch is
conditioned prosodically, and not syntactically?
7. The Dutch derivational suffix -tig/tex/, used in number names such as
twin-tig ‘‘twenty’’ and der-tig ‘‘thirty’’, has developed into a numeral
with the meaning ‘‘umpteen’’. In this use, the word is pronounced as
[tØx]. How can this phonological change be explained?
8. Suppose that someone claimed that the stress pattern of the English
compound bréakfast tàble can be computed without reference to mor-
phological structure, by means of the following rule: in native words main
stress falls on the first syllable, and secondary stress on every odd syllable
going from left to right. Provide empirical evidence that speaks against
such an analysis, and in favour of the role of morphological structure in
computing the stress patterns of compounds.
9. Consider the following Hungarian words and their dative forms:
Vajda-né ‘‘wife of Vajda’’ Vajda-né-nak (dative form)
Szoké-né ‘‘wife of Szoké’’ Szoké-né-nek (dative form)
Which conclusion can you draw about the role of the suffix -né in vowel
harmony?
10. Which prosodic constraints can be invoked to explain the choice between
the English definite articles a and an?
the interface between morphology and phonology 183
Further reading
A classic article on the interface between phonology and morphology
in Optimality Theory is McCarthy and Prince (1994). Cyclic application of
phonological rules is one of the building stones of the theory of Lexical
Phonology; see Booij (2000) for an overview of this theory.
Criteria for distinguishing clitics from affixes are given in Zwicky and Pullum
(1983). Clitics often have a special syntactic distribution as well, cf. van
Riemsdijk (1998) for studies on clitics in European languages. The necessity
to distinguish between lexical and postlexical phonology in relation to clitics is
argued for in Booij (1996b, 1997c).
Phonologically conditioned selection of suppletive morphemes is
discussed in Carstairs (1988) The selection of allomorphs by output constraints
is argued for in Booij (1998), and Rubach and Booij (2001). The role of
paradigmatic relations in allomorphy is discussed in Booij (1997a, b).
A good summary of the theory of Prosodic Morphology is McCarthy and
Prince (1998). Prosodic restrictions on affixation are discussed in Booij (2002b).
Detailed analyses of reduplication are found in McCarthy and Prince (1998),
Kager (1999), Wiltshire and Marantz (2000), and Struijke (2002).
184 interfaces
8
Morphology and syntax:
demarcation and interaction
8.1 Words and phrases
There are at least four issues that have to be dealt with when we consider the
relation between morphology and syntax. One is the demarcation of the
empirical domains of these two modules of the grammar: when is a multi-
morphemic sequence a word, and when is it a phrase? Second, morphology
and syntax interact in two ways: syntactic constructs may form parts of
complex words, and syntax in its turn governs the use of morphological case
marking on words. A third domain of investigation is how morphological
operations may aVect the syntactic valency of words. Finally, languages may
have syntactic alternatives to the morphological expression of grammatical
and semantic content, and we might therefore want to know more about
the division of labour between morphology and syntax in this respect.
Let us Wrst have a closer look at the demarcation issue. Morphology
deals primarily with the structure of words, and syntax with the structure of
phrases. But how do you know if a particular combination of morphemes is
a word or a phrase? Is the lexical unit hard disk a word (that is, compound
of the type A þ N), or a noun phrase? How can we know?
8.1 Words and phrases 185
8.2 Grammatical functions
and case marking 190
8.3 Morphology and
syntactic valency 194
8.4 Periphrasis and
constructional idioms 201
Summary 203
Questions 204
Further reading 206
The most important criterion for wordhood is that of lexical integrity
that has already been discussed in section 4.2. The principle of Lexical
Integrity has been formulated as follows:
(1) ‘The syntax neither manipulates nor has access to the internal form of words’
(Anderson 1992: 84).
This principle implies that if we call something a word, it should exhibit
lexical integrity, that is, syntactic rules cannot refer to its parts. The
importance of this criterion can be illustrated by looking at the diVerence
between preWxed verbs and particle verbs in Dutch. This language has a
syntactic rule of Verb Second which requires Wnite verbal forms in main
clauses to appear in second position, after the Wrst constituent. If the verb
is preWxed, the preWx has to move along with the stem, which shows that
the preWx is not a separate word. On the other hand, if the verb is a
particle verb (that is a phrasal verb comparable to English word combin-
ations such as to look up), the particle is left behind. The underlying word
order in Dutch is SOV (Subject–Object–Verb). Hence, if the Wnite verb is
moved to second position, the particle is stranded in the original position
of the V. This shows that particles are words of their own. Hence, we get
the following contrast for the Dutch preWxed verb doorzóeken ‘‘to search’’
versus the particle verb dóorzoeken ‘‘to continue searching’’:
(2) a. Jan door-zocht het hele gebouw
John through-seek.past.sg the whole building
‘‘John searched the whole building’’
b. Jan zocht tot 2 uur door
John seek.past.sg till 2 o’clock through
‘‘John continued searching till 2 o’clock’’
The diVerence between preWxed verbs and particle verbs is reXected by a
diVerence in the location of the main stress of these expressions: particles
bear main stress, whereas in preWxed verbs it is the verbal stem that carries
main stress.
Lexical integrity implies that English verb particle constructions such as
to look up are to be considered phrasal verbs because the two parts can be
separated as we saw in section 1.4:
(3) John looked up the information
John looked the information up
186 interfaces
Lexical integrity also manifests itself in the fact that syntactically gov-
erned rules of inXection do not apply to the individual parts of a word.
Consider the following names for kinds of cabbage in Dutch, both of the
form A þ N:
(4) ròdeA kóolN ‘‘red cabbage’’
zúurA kòolN ‘‘lit. sour cabbage, sauerkraut’’
The Wrst cabbage name must be a phrase, witness the fact that the adjective
rod-e is inXected, as is the rule for Dutch adjectives in prenominal position.
Moreover, it carries phrasal stress, that is, main stress on the last constituent.
The second name is an A þ N compound, not a phrase, because the adjective
zuur is not inXected. Main stress is on the Wrst constituent, as is the rule for
Dutch nominal compounds. The phrase zure kool is also possible, but
does not denote sauerkraut. Instead, it has the literal interpretation of
‘‘sour cabbage’’. Determining if an A þ N combination is a phrase or a
compound is more diYcult for English than for Dutch since English does not
inXect prenominal adjectives. In the case of English, our only formal criter-
ion is that of stress: in A þ N compounds main stress is usually on the Wrst
constituent and in A þ N phrases on the second, as in gréenhouse versus
green hóuse. On the basis of this criterion, we may conclude that hárd disk is a
compound since it has main stress on its Wrst constituent.
Lexical integrity pertains to syntactic rules. Phonological rules may have
access to morphological structure, as do semantic rules. In the English phrase
a hard worker, for instance, the adjective hard functions as a modiWer of
the verbal base work in the noun worker. The phrase denotes someone who
works hard, not a worker who is hard. Thus, the rules of semantic interpret-
ation must have access to the internal structure of this deverbal noun.
It is a matter of debate to what extent rules of anaphora are subject to the
Lexical Integrity constraint. Consider the following sentences (Bosch 1983:
154):
(5) a. John likes [the guitar]i because he thinks iti is a social instrument
b. John became a guitarist because he thought it was a social instrument
c. Shakespearean imitators usually fail to capture his style
d. Fred is a New Yorker, but he has not lived there for years
In (5a) the pronoun it is interpreted as coreferential with the guitar. This is
indicated by the co-indexation of these two constituents by means of
a subscripted index i. In (5b), the pronoun it is also interpreted as the
morphology and syntax 187
guitar. Does this mean that the pronoun is co-indexed with a part of
the word guitarist? If so, the Lexical Integrity constraint does not hold for
rules of anaphora. However, this goes against the general observation that
words, when embedded in complex words, lose their referential potential (in
fact, it is not words but phrases that refer to something). What is at stake in
sentence (5b) is that the pronoun it receives an interpretation within the
domain of discourse evoked by this sentence. The word guitarist that has a
transparent meaning will certainly evoke an entity ‘‘guitar’’ in that discourse
domain. That is, the guitar is an inferred entity here, and the pronoun it
may be linked to that entity. The same applies to (5c, d) where Shakespeare
and New York are the inferred entities that function as the referents of his and
there respectively. What about the following sentence?
(6) John is an orphan, so he never knew them
Since orphan means ‘‘young person whose parents have died’’, we may
wonder if them in this sentence can refer to John’s parents? If that is the
case, we can conclude that the meaning of the simplex word orphan intro-
duced parents into the discourse domain. That is, the availability of particular
referents in a domain of discourse is primarily a matter of semantics. How-
ever, transparent morphological structure certainly helps to Wnd adequate
referents for pronouns in a discourse domain, and hence the sentences (5b–d)
are much better than sentence (6), to say the least.
The preceding remarks pertain to the issue of demarcation between
morphology and syntax: how can we determine if a particular multi-
morphemic construct is morphological or syntactic in nature? It is quite
clear that we need formal criteria. Semantic criteria such as semantic
idiosyncrasy are not of much help. The fact that yellow fever denotes
a speciWc disease is a semantic idiosyncrasy that shows that this morpheme
combination must be lexically stored. It is certainly a lexical unit, but not
necessarily a word in the morphological sense. Its stress pattern is that of
a phrase, with main stress on the head word: yèllow féver.
A related question is whether phrases can be parts of words. Is there a
No Phrase Constraint on complex words? The answer is negative: phrases do
occur as parts of words, as shown in (7) for English and Dutch compounds:
(7) a. [special exhibitions] gallery
[module for module] upgrade
[drugs and rehabilitation] centre
188 interfaces
b. [[oude mannen]NP [huis]N]N ‘‘old men’s home’’
[[gekke koeien]NP[ziekte]N]N ‘‘mad cow disease’’
[[hete lucht]NP[ballon]N]N ‘‘hot air balloon’’
[[God is dood]S [theologie]N]N ‘‘God-is-dead theology’’
In the Wrst example in (7a), the word sequence special exhibitions is a noun
phrase of the type A þ N. This is clear from its stress pattern (stress on
exhibitions) and the fact that the word exhibition is used in its plural form.
In the next two English examples we see the phrases module for module and
drugs and rehabilitation in the non-head position. The Dutch examples
show similar patterns, and the last example illustrates that even full
sentences can be embedded in a compound.
It is not the case that all kinds of phrases can feed word-formation. Noun
phrases with a determiner as parts of complex words are impossible in
English and Dutch:
(8) *the [[the special exhibitions] gallery]
*het [[de oude mannen] huis] ‘‘the old men’s home’’
This ungrammaticality has to do with the fact that the special exhibitions
and de oude mannen ‘‘the old men’’ with their deWnite determiners are
referring expressions, whereas word constituents in non-head position
have a modifying, classiWcatory function.
AYxes are not completely blocked from being attached to phrases, as
shown in (9):
(9) English: do good-er, do-it-your-self-er, fast-tracker, look-upper (from Ryder
2001)
Dutch: vierde klass-er ‘‘fourth grader, pupil of the fourth class’’, twaalfuur-tje
‘‘lit. twelve o’clock-dim, lunch food’’, onderons-je ‘‘lit. between us-dim, private
chat’’
AYxation of phrases is exceptional, however, and is restricted to very
productive aYxes such as the English nominalizing suYx -er, its Dutch
equivalent -er, and the very productive Dutch diminutive suYx -(t)je
which are the suYxes used in the examples in (9).
These examples of syntax feeding word-formation show that syntax and
morphology exhibit a speciWc form of interaction in that syntax can
feed word-formation. Of course, morphology also feeds syntax since
morphology provides units that are operated upon by syntactic rules.
You should realize that interaction is not the same thing as interface.
We reserve the term ‘interface’ for the ways in which diVerent kinds of
morphology and syntax 189
representations (phonological, formal, semantic) are linked to each other.
Here we looked at something diVerent, namely at constraints on the formal
structure of complex words, and more speciWcally whether pieces of syntax
can form parts of complex words.
A general observation concerning the interaction between morphology
and syntax is that they make use of the same word class categories:
morphological rules operate on words of a certain word class (noun,
verb, adjective, etc.), and also create words or word forms of a speciWc
category. There is thus a shared vocabulary for morphology and syntax
with respect to word classes.
8.2 Grammatical functions and case marking
In most languages, the interface between the semantic properties of a clause
and its morpho-syntactic structure (word order, case marking, etc.) is
partially regulated by the grammatical function frame of the verb of that
clause. This statement requires some explication, and we therefore begin by
analysing the grammatical properties of a simplex verb.
Consider the English verb to hit. This verb denotes an event in which at
least two participants are involved: the person who hits, and what is hit. We
refer to these two crucially involved entities as the core arguments of the
predicate HIT, and the Predicate Argument Structure (PAS) of this verb
can be represented as
(10) HIT, x, y
The PAS is an abstraction from the information contained in the Lexical-
Conceptual Structure (LCS) of a word. A complete LCS of to hit would
include that it denotes a movement in which an object is moved towards
another one, and makes contact with that object with considerable force.
This information is essential for a proper semantic interpretation, but we
focus here on those aspects that have direct relevance for the syntactic
behaviour of verbs, which are represented at the level of PAS.
The arguments of PAS are represented as variables such as x and y,
which will receive a particular value in each concrete sentence. In the
sentence John hit the ball, the value of x ¼ John, and the value of y ¼ the
ball. We can also add labels for particular semantic roles to these variables,
for instance Agent and Patient. The notion Agent refers to the entity that is
190 interfaces
in control of the event expressed by the verb. The Patient is involved in the
event, but is not in control. Such semantic roles (also called thematic roles)
are generalizations about the roles of participants in events denoted by
verbs. Our grammar of English now has to state that these two arguments
are normally expressed by the grammatical subject and the grammatical
object of the clause respectively. This relationship between the PAS of a
verb and its syntactic realization can be expressed as in (11) by linking the
grammatical functions ‘subject’ (SUBJ) and ‘object’ (OBJ) to the argu-
ments of PAS. The verb to hit is speciWed here as appearing with both a
subject and an object. This means that it is a transitive verb.
(11) HIT, xAGENT, yPATIENT Predicate Argument Structure
j j
SUBJ OBJ grammatical function frame
The two arguments of to hit are the core arguments that always have to
be expressed. Most predicates require one or two arguments. There are also
verbs with three arguments, that have an indirect object expressing a third
argument, such as to give, as in John gave his sister a book in which his sister
has the semantic role of Goal (or Recipient). The number of arguments a
verb requires to be expressed is referred to as its syntactic valency.
In addition to the core arguments, there might be other entities involved
in specifying the event of hitting such as the instrument and the location, as
in John hit his enemy in the back with a stick. These latter speciWcations are
always optional, and such participants in the event are usually called
adjuncts. This enables us to reserve the term ‘argument’ for the core
arguments.
The relationship between the two levels of PAS and grammatical func-
tions is often predictable, by so-called linking rules. The following linking
rule is relevant for to hit. If there are two arguments, then the argument that
expresses the Agent of the action will be expressed as the grammatical
subject, and the other argument as the grammatical object. If there is
only one argument, the default linking rule applies: we have an intransitive
verb, and this argument will be linked to the grammatical function of
subject.
Word order is one of the means to indicate which particular grammatical
function is performed by a noun phrase. Linguists classify languages in
terms of the order in which grammatical functions are expressed: SVO
morphology and syntax 191
(Subject–Verb–Object), SOV (Subject–Object–Verb), etc. That is, we need
these grammatical functions for syntactic purposes. They also play a role in
a proper account of elliptical constructions, as in
(12) John hit his enemy, and (he) left
In this sentence, the subject of the second clause may be omitted. Here, we
interpret the person who left as John, not as his enemy. It is crucially the
subject position that can be gapped, and hence we must be able to refer to
grammatical functions such as Subject in our account of ellipsis.
In many languages, morphology is used to mark grammatical functions,
either through head marking or through dependent marking. Subject–
Verb agreement, for instance, marks the grammatical function Subject by
expressing some of the properties of the subject NP on the verbal head.
This marking may be used by the language user in order to identify the
subject of the clause. Case marking is a form of dependent marking which
signals the grammatical function of an NP in a clause.
In Indo-European languages with morphological case systems the dis-
tinction between grammatical subject and grammatical object is marked by
means of the opposition between nominative and accusative case. If there
is only one argument (the case of intransitive clauses), it is case-marked as
a nominative. When there are two arguments, the subject is marked
as nominative and the object as accusative. This system is called the
Nominative-Accusative system. An alternative case-marking system is
the Absolutive-Ergative system used in, among others, many Australian
languages. Usually, the symbols S, A, and O are used for the characteriza-
tion of these two systems (Dixon 1994: 6):
(13) S ¼ intransitive subject, A ¼ transitive subject, O ¼ transitive object
A stands for the subject of transitive sentences. It may be deWned as
follows: ‘[T]hat role which is likely to be most relevant to the success of
the activity will be identiWed as A’ (Dixon 1994: 7). S is the subject in
intransitive sentences, and O stands for the object in transitive sentences.
(Instead of O the symbol P (for Patient) is also used.) These two systems for
marking the grammatical functions can now be characterized as in (14). In
the Nominative-Accusative system A and S receive the same case marking,
whereas in the Absolutive-Ergative system this applies to O and S.
The following examples from German (15) and Dyirbal (16) illustrate the
two diVerent systems of case marking (Dixon 1994: 10).
192 interfaces
(14) PAS PREDICATE, x PREDICATE, x y
j j j
Grammatical function S A O
j j j
Nominative-Accusative system nom nom acc
Absolutive-Ergative system abs erg abs
(15) Der Mann lach-t
the.masc.nom.sg man.masc.nom.sg laugh-pres.3sg
‘‘The man (S) laughs’’
Der Mann kauf-t ein
the.masc.nom.sg man.masc.nom.sg buy-pres.3sg. a.neut.sg.acc
Buch
book.neut.sg.acc
‘‘The man (A) buys a book (O)’’
(16) Numa banaga-ny
u
father.abs return-nonfut
‘‘Father (S) returned’’
yabu Numa-Ngu bura-n
mother.abs father.erg see-nonfut
‘‘Father (A) saw mother (O)’’
In some cases it is not only the case marking that is ergative in nature, but
also the syntax, as can be seen in the construction of elliptical sentences. In
ellipsis, the second of two identical NPs in coordinated clauses is omitted,
as illustrated in (17) for English:
(17) John (A) saw his wife (O) and—(S) rejoiced (gapping of John under identity
of A and S)
In a language with ergative syntax such as Dyirbal, the subjects of intransi-
tive systems pattern with O, not with A:
(18) Numa banaga-ny
u yabu-Ngu bura-n
father.abs return-nonfut mother-erg see-nonfut
‘‘Father (S) returned and mother (A) saw him (O)’’
There is no overt O in the second clause with the transitive verb bura ‘‘to
see’’, and the required O is taken to be identical to the S of the Wrst clause.
That is, the S of an intransitive clause and the O of a transitive clause
behave as instances of the same grammatical function.
morphology and syntax 193
Things can be even more complicated, due to the phenomenon of
split ergativity. In Dyirbal the morphological nominative-accusative
casemarking system is used for the morphological marking of Wrst and second
person NPs; for all other NPs, the absolutive-ergative system is used. The
syntaxofDyirbalisconsistentlyergative,however,asshownbythefactthatin
sentence (19), with nominative-accusative marking, it is the object of the Wrst
clause that controls the gapped subject in the second clause (Dixon 1994: 15):
(19) ny
urra Nana-n bura-n banaga-ny
u
you.all.nom we.all-acc see-nonfut return-nonfut
‘‘You all (A) saw us (O) and (we) (S) returned’’
In sentence (19) the omitted subject (S) of ‘‘returned’’ is interpreted as
‘‘we’’, that is, as being identical to the O of the preceding clause. This
shows that ergative morphology and ergative syntax are not the same, and
not necessarily linked: a language may have (partially) nominative-accusa-
tive morphology, but absolutive-ergative syntax.
8.3 Morphology and syntactic valency
The relation between the level of PAS and the level of grammatical func-
tions can be changed by morphological operations. The best known and
widely studied example of such a change is passivization. In this operation,
the Agent of the predicate is demoted to the status of an adjunct. The
remaining argument, if any, will then receive the status of S, and receive
nominative case in a nominative-accusative system. The following Green-
landic Eskimo sentences (from Fortescue 1984: 265) illustrate this process
for an ergative language:
(20) a. inuit nanuq taku-aat
people.erg.pl polar.bear.abs.sg see-3pl.3sg.ind
‘‘The people saw the polar bear’’
b. nanuq (inun-nit) taku-niquar-puq
polar.bear.abs.sg people-abl.pl see-pass-3sg.ind
‘‘The polar bear was seen (by the people)’’
In the second sentence, the passive suYx has the eVect of making the original
subject optional. It can be added as an adjunct, marked with ablative case,
whereas in the active sentence it is marked with ergative case. Note also that
194 interfaces
whereas in (20a) the person–number properties of both the plural Agent and
the singular Patient are marked on the verb, in (20b) it is only the properties
of the singular Patient that are marked on the verbal form. This is to be
expected given the non-argument status of the Agent in sentence (20b).
In present-day Romance and Germanic languages, there is no synthetic
passive form of verbs; instead, a periphrastic construction is used, consisting
of a passive auxiliary and a participle. In French, the verb être ‘‘to be’’
functions as passive auxiliary, and the Agent can be expressed in a par-phrase:
(21) Je suis insult-é par Jean
I be.1sg.pres insult-past.ptcp.masc.sg by Jean
‘‘I am insulted by Jean’’
As stated above, passivization is an operation that aVects the mapping
between PAS and the grammatical function level. It is not an operation on the
semantic level (LCS or PAS) since it does not change meaning, only the form
inwhich meaningisexpressed. This isalsoprovenbythe fact that thedemoted
Agent of the verbal predicate is semantically still available, for instance
as a controller. Notice the contrast in the following two English sentences:
(22) a. The boat was sunk to collect the insurance money
b. *The boat sank to collect the insurance money
In (22a), a passive sentence, the demoted Agent is still there semantically, as
the implicit subject of the verb collect in the embedded inWnitival clause. In
(22b), the intransitive, non-passive verb sink is used, and hence there is no
Agent involved at all. Consequently, an appropriate controller of the subject
of collect is not available in sentence (22b), and hence it is ungrammatical.
The essence of passivization is the demotion of the Agent argument, not
the promotion of the Patient argument. The promotion of the Patient to
the status of grammatical subject can be seen as the eVect of the default
linking rule: when there is only one argument, it will be expressed as the
grammatical subject. In conformity with this statement, Dutch and Ger-
man exhibit passivization of intransitive verbs, the so-called impersonal
passive, illustrated by the following example from Dutch:
(23) Er werd enthousiast gedanst
there aux.pass.past.impf enthusiastically dance.past.ptcp
‘‘There was enthusiastic dancing’’
In this sentence, the Agent is no longer mentioned explicitly, and since the
verb dansen ‘‘to dance’’ is intransitive, there is no other argument that can
morphology and syntax 195
be linked to the subject position. Since Dutch clauses with Wnite verbs
always require the presence of a subject, the subject position is Wlled with
a dummy word, the word er.
The diVerent patterns of linking arguments to grammatical functions are
also referred to as diVerent voices (active voice versus passive voice). Voices
express semantic relations between the subject and the action described by the
verb. Another example of voice is the middle voice. The grammarians of
Sanskrit and Greek speak of the middle voice as a distinct verbal form, just
as we may have diVerent aspectual forms of a verb. In this case, the use of the
middle voice instead of the active voice does not mean that the mapping of
semantic roles on grammatical functions is diVerent, but the middle voice
marker changes the status of the subject with respect to the denoted action.
HereisanexamplefromSanskrit(Klaiman1991:24,transcriptionsimpliWed):
(24) a. Devadattah katam karoti
Devadatta.nom mat.acc make.sg
‘‘Devadatta makes a mat’’
b. Devadattah katam krute
Devadatta-nom mat.acc make.sg
‘‘Devadatta makes himself a mat’’
As this example shows, the middle voice indicates that the subject is also the
beneWciary of the action expressed by the verb.
The term voice is also used for alternative markings of the pragmatic role
fulWlled by the noun phrases in a clause. The following example is from the
Mayan language Ixil (Ayres 1983, cited in Klaiman 1991: 34):
(25) a. A-k’oni in ta’n uula
2sg.erg-shoot 1sg.abs with sling
‘‘You shot me with a sling’’
b. Uula a-k’oni-b’e in
sling 2sg.erg-shoot-index 1sg.abs
‘‘With a sling you shot me’’
The index-suYx on the verb marks the promotion of the instrument to
sentence-initial position, with the instrumental preposition omitted. Thus,
focus is put on the instrument with which the shooting took place.
Instead of the Agent, the O can also be demoted. This is the anti-passive
construction, found in particular in languages with an absolutive-ergative
system. In this construction, the O can be omitted, or appear with
instrumental case. Hence, you get an intransitive sentence. An example
from Greenlandic Eskimo is the following (Fortescue 1984: 86):
196 interfaces
(26) a. inuit tuqup-pai
people.abs.pl kill-3sg.3pl.indic
‘‘He killed the people’’
b. inun-nik tuqut-si-vuq
people.instr kill-antipass-3sg.indic
‘‘He killed people’’
Sentence (26a) exhibits the normal case marking; in (26b) we have an
intransitive sentence, with the word for ‘‘people’’ marked with an instru-
mental case. The eVect of the anti-passive is to ‘despecify’ the direct object
of the transitive verb, if expressed at all. Hence, (26) does not refer to
speciWc people that were killed. Note also that the person–number proper-
ties of ‘‘people’’ are no longer marked on the verb.
Instead of demoting an argument, you may also promote it. This is done
in the applicative construction that is found in many African and Austro-
nesian languages. For instance, an instrumental or locative NP can be
promoted to the status of O as the eVect of adding an applicative aYx to
the verb, as in example (27) from the Atlantic language Wolof. In other
cases, an additional beneWciary argument is created, as in (28), from the
Mexican language Classical Nahuatl (Comrie 1985: 318):
(27) a. Mungi lekk ag kuddu
pres.3sg eat with spoon
‘‘He is eating with a spoon’’
b. Mungi lekk-e kuddu
pres.3sg eat-appl spoon
‘‘He is eating with a spoon’’
(28) Ni-c-no-pāqui-lia
I-it-myself-wash-appl
‘‘I wash it for myself ’’
In sum, verbs may carry morphological markings that determine how
their arguments must be expressed on the level of syntactic structure. The
syntactic valency of verbs may thus be aVected by morphology.
Another way of changing transitive verbs into intransitive ones is noun
incorporation. What happens mostly in noun incorporation is that an
argument of the verb is not expressed by a separate NP, but as part of a
verbal compound. The verbal compound then functions as an intransitive
verb. The following example, a one-word-sentence, comes from the Amer-
indian language Tuscarora; the verbal compound of the form N þ V is
khw-eti (Mithun 1999: 45):
morphology and syntax 197
(29) w-e-khw-eti-?
factual-fem.agent-food-make-perf
‘‘she meal-made ¼ she cooked’’
In Tuscarora, verbs with incorporated nouns co-occur with verbs with
independent noun phrases. The diVerence is that the verb with incorpor-
ated noun denotes an institutionalized action, whereas the independent
noun phrases have referential potential. In the case of incorporation, the
argument usually receives a non-referential and non-individuated inter-
pretation. This functional diVerence is nicely illustrated by the fact that in
Tuscarora you can have constructions of the type She bread-made corn,
with both an incorporated noun and an independent NP, meaning ‘‘She
made corn-bread’’ (Mithun 1999: 46).
What is the precise nature of noun incorporation? Suppose we could coin
the verbal compound wood-chop in English (we can form the compound
wood-chopping, with a deverbal noun as head, but Germanic languages
tend to avoid verbal compounds). The verbal head chop is a transitive
predicate with two arguments. The non-head constituent wood will be
linked to the y-argument of chop. Put diVerently, the noun wood binds
the y-argument of chop, that is, it functions as the value of the y-variable.
So this argument cannot be expressed any more by an independent NP in
the relevant clause. Hence, the only argument left for independent syntactic
expression in a sentence is the x-argument. This implies that such verbal
compounds are intransitive. What we see here, then, is that the semantic
interpretation of a complex verb may lead to a syntactic valency that is
diVerent from that of its verbal head. Thus, unlike operations such as
passivization, noun incorporation does not aVect the interface between
syntax and semantics directly. The intransitivization eVect is the result of
the semantics of a particular word-formation process, in combination with
general principles concerning the relation between the Predicate Argument
Structure of a word and its syntactic expression.
The phenomenon of noun incorporation has led some linguists to
propose that some kinds of word-formation can be accounted for by
syntactic operations. In such a syntactic approach, the incorporated noun
is represented as an independent NP at the underlying syntactic level. The
noun is then adjoined to the V, resulting in a verbal compound. For
instance, the Wctive English verbal compound to bed-buy would be derived
as follows (with some simpliWcation of the syntactic structure). This is
represented in Figure 8.1.
198 interfaces
The noun bed originates in the object position of the VP, which is then
vacated; the empty position is indicated by t (for trace), and is co-indexed
with the moved N. Through this co-indexation, the incorporated N will be
interpreted semantically as the object of the verb. Thus, in this analysis
(defended by Baker 1988, 1996, for the Amerindian language Mohawk),
the intransitivization eVect of this kind of noun incorporation is the eVect
of a syntactic operation. The main challenge for this syntactic approach to
word-formation is providing a proper account of the semantic diVerences
between verbs with independent NPs and verbs with incorporated nouns
mentioned above.
The same debate as to the choice of a morphological or a syntactic
analysis of word-formation plays a role in the analysis of causatives.
Causative verbs are verbs in which the A has the role of the causer of an
event in which one or two entities play a role. The classic example of a
simplex causative verb in English is to kill, with the meaning ‘‘cause to die’’.
More precisely, the semantic structure of this predicate can be represented
as follows:
(30) CAUSE (x, (DIE, y))
This is a semantic representation of the fact that sentences with causative
verbs denote complex events, in this example the causation of the event of
someone dying.
Many languages have causative aYxes that turn non-causative verbs into
causative ones. The semantic eVect is the addition of a predicate CAUSE,
Fig. 8.1 Syntactic derivation of noun–verb compounds
morphology and syntax 199
and an additional argument, the causer. Hence, causativization has the
eVect of increasing the valency of words. This applies to adjectives, nouns
and verbs. The following examples are from Diyari, an Australian language
(Austin 1981: 168), and from Turkish (Comrie 1985: 323), respectively.
(31) muka ‘‘sleep’’ (noun) > muka-Nanka ‘‘to put to sleep’’
kidi ‘‘clever’’ (adj.) > kidi-Nanka ‘‘to teach ¼ to make clever’’
(32) Ali Hasan-ṫ öl-dür-dü
Ali Hasan-do die-caus-past
‘‘Ali killed Hasan’’
müdür mektub-u imzala-dṫ
director letter-do sign-past
‘‘The director signed a letter’’
diçi mektub-u müdür-e imzala-t-tṫ
dentist letter-do director-io sign-caus-past
‘‘The dentist made the director sign a letter’’
The last Turkish example shows how the addition of a causative suYx
increases the valency of a verb. Thus, it is an example of a valency-increasing
operation. We should realize, however, that causativization is a morpho-
logical process that primarily aVects the semantic properties of a predicate,
and hence the level of PAS. At the level of PAS, a CAUSER argument is
added to the PAS of the input word. This will then aVect its syntactic valency
through the linking rules that map arguments onto the grammatical function
frame of a verb. Therefore, although passive formation and causative forma-
tion both aVect syntactic valency, the nature of these operations is diVerent.
A syntactic approach to causativization assumes that the causative suYx
functions as a verb with a complement that denotes the caused event. The
syntactic structure of the Wrst Turkish sentence in (32) above might be
represented (in a somewhat simpliWed form and ignoring the past tense
suYx) as in Figure 8.2. This syntactic structure nicely expresses that a
sentence with a causative verb denotes a complex event. Since the causative
verb is a bound morpheme, it cannot surface as a word of its own, and must
be combined with a verbal stem. Hence, the verb of the embedded clause is
moved to the higher clause, and attached through adjunction to the left of
the causative suYx that functions as the verb of the main clause. This
change of structure should also aVect case assignment since the subject of
the embedded clause Hasan will now have to be case-marked as object. This
kind of syntactic analysis of causatives is argued for in Baker (1988, 1996).
200 interfaces
8.4 Periphrasis and constructional idioms
The notion ‘periphrasis’ is used primarily in the analysis of inXectional
paradigms: for some cells of a paradigm, there is no speciWc morphological
form available. Instead, a word combination has to be used, that is, an
analytic form. Examples are the use of auxiliaries þ participles of main
verbs for the expression of perfect tense and the passive voice. In a number
of languages, progressive aspect is expressed by a periphrastic form of the
verb ‘to be’ þ prepositional phrase, as illustrated by the following examples
from Dutch:
(33) Jan is [[aan]P [[het]Det [Wets-en]N]NP]PP
John is at the cycle-inf
‘‘John is cycling’’
(34) Jan is de aardappels aan het schillen
John is the potatoes at the peel-inf
‘‘John is peeling the potatoes’’
The unity of this aan het V-inf-construction as the periphrastic progressive
form of the verb is quite clear in sentence (34): the direct object de aardap-
pels ‘‘the potatoes’’ is not located right before the verb, as is normally the
case for objects in Dutch embedded clauses. Instead, the object precedes
the word sequence aan het ‘‘at the’’ that signals the progressive aspect.
Progressive aspect may also be expressed by using postural verbs such as
‘‘to sit’’ and ‘‘to stand’’ in coordination with a main verb, as illustrated here
for Afrikaans and for West-Flemish, a dialect of Dutch:
Fig. 8.2 A syntactic account of causative verbs
morphology and syntax 201
(35) Afrikaans
Piet staan ’n glas water en drink
Pete stands a glass water and drink
‘‘Pete is drinking a glass of water’’
West Flemish
Zij zat kousen en stoppen
she sat stockings and mend-inf
‘‘She was mending stockings’’
Note that it is only the postural verb in the West Flemish sentence that has
a Wnite form, the main verb appears in the inWnitive (in Afrikaans there is
no formal diVerence between inWnitive and Wnite forms).
Such constructions with a periphrastic function are constructional
idioms. Recall that constructional idioms are multi-word expressions that
are idiomatic in nature but not completely Wxed because some positions are
variable. For instance, we may speak of the Dutch constructional idiom
aan het V-inf, a sequence of word positions of which the Wrst two are Wxed,
but the third one is a variable position, which may be Wlled by the inWnitival
form of any verb that denotes an activity. Hence, this is a productive
pattern.
Many languages have preverb þ verb combinations that function simi-
larly to preWxed verbs. The notion preverb refers to words that appear before
verbs, and form a close unit with that verb. Quite often, these phrasal
constructions function as alternatives to preWxed verbs. This is the case
for particle verbs in Germanic languages, and preverb þ verb combinations
in Hungarian. As shown in section 8.1, particle verbs have a phrasal
status. The preverbs contribute to the aspectual properties of the verbal
predicate, and may also inXuence its syntactic valency. For instance, the
Dutch particle af expresses a result, and turns the intransitive verb werken
‘‘to work’’ into a resultative (hence telic and transitive) predicate, as in:
(36) Bettelou werkte haar opdrachten af
Bettelou worked her assignments particle
‘‘Bettelou Wnished her assignments’’
That is, Dutch has a constructional idiom af V with the meaning ‘‘to Wnish
V-ing’’ which may be speciWed in the lexicon. The meaning contribution of
the particle af is speciWed as part of the meaning of the constructional idiom
in which it occurs. The presence of the variable V indicates that new particle
verbs of this form can be formed. Particle verbs are therefore lexical units,
but not words in the morphological sense.
202 interfaces
Analytic causative constructions are also instantiations of constructional
idioms. In Germanic and Romance languages, the causative meaning is
often not expressed by an aYx, but by a separate causative verb such as
laten ‘‘to let’’ in Dutch and fare ‘‘to do’’ in Italian. The combination of the
causative and the main verb functions as a unit, and the recipient is marked
by a preposition, aan in Dutch, and a in Italian:
(37) Dutch
Ik liet het boek aan mijn collega zien
I let the book to my colleague see.inf
‘‘I showed the book to my colleague’’
Italian
Ho fatto vedere il libro a-l mio collega
have.1sg make-ptcp see.inf the book to-def my colleague
‘‘I showed the book to my colleague’’
The unitary nature of laat zien and ho fatto vedere manifests itself in the fact
that they select a recipient argument marked by a preposition, whereas
neither the causative verb nor the main verb select a recipient themselves.
Another type of constructional idiom that is functionally similar to
complex verbs is that of serial verbs, found in many African, Austronesian,
and Papua languages. The following examples are from São-Tomense, a
Portuguese-based creole spoken on the island of São-Tomé in the Gulf of
Guinea. Characteristics of such constructions are that the two (or more)
verbs denote a single event, that there is only one overt subject, and one
tense marker (Hagemeijer 2001: 416):
(38) Bisu vwa subli
bird Xy.past go.up
‘‘The bird Xew upwards’’
Zon toma mantchin kota po
Zon take.past machete cut tree
‘‘Zon cut the tree with the machete’’
In sum, languages may have syntactic, analytic alternatives to the morpho-
logical expression of meaning. These syntactic alternatives may have the
status of lexical units and may exhibit special syntactic behaviour.
Summary
The relation between morphology and syntax must be dealt with from
a number of perspectives. One is the demarcation of the two: when is a
morphology and syntax 203
multi-morphemic sequence a word, and when is it a phrase? The criterion
of Lexical Integrity is the most important one for a proper delimitation of
morphology from syntax. Second, morphology and syntax interact in two
directions: syntactic constructs may form parts of complex words, and
syntax in its turn governs the use of morphological case marking on
words. The third perspective is that of syntactic valency: morphological
operations may aVect the syntactic valency of words. Finally, languages
may have analytic alternatives to the morphological expression of gram-
matical and semantic content. Productive types of word combination of
this kind can be qualiWed as constructional idioms.
Questions
1. Consider the following sentences of English:
a. John is a truck driver, and he often sleeps in it
b. John is a truck driver, and an excellent one
What makes sentence (a) more difficult to interpret than sentence (b)?
2. English has the compound small claims court, with a phrasal left constituent.
Why can we not use the phrase very small claims as the left constituent of a
compound with court as its head (*very small claims court)?
3. Recently, a new English novel was advertised as unputdownable. Does this
word-formation imply that put down is one word?
4. The following sentence from Bolivian Quechua shows the use of the ac-
cusative maker -ta (van de Kerke 1996: 26):
mikhu-chi-y wawa-ta
eat-CAUS-IMP child-ACC
‘‘Make that the child eats’’
Explain why the word for ‘‘child’’ carries an accusative marking although it is
the Agent argument of eating.
5. Consider the following active sentence and its passive counterpart in
Turkish (Kornfilt 1997: 324):
Hasan ders-ler-e başla-dI
Hasan lesson-PL-DAT begin-PAST
‘‘Hasan began the lessons’’
ders-ler-e başla-n-dI
lesson-PL-DAT begin-PASS-PAST
‘‘The lessons were begun’’
a. What does this case marking pattern imply for the lexical specification
of the Turkish verb for to begin?
204 interfaces
b. Why does this pair of sentences support the claim that passive is
demotion of the Agent, and not promotion of the Patient?
6. Which kind of valency change can be observed by comparing the following
two Turkish sentences (Kornfilt 1997):
Hassan sürahi-yi dolab-a koy-du
Hassan pitcher-ACC cupboard-DAT put-PAST
‘‘Hassan put the pitcher into the cupboard’’
Hassan-a sürahi-yi dolab-a koy-dur-du-m
Hasan-DAT pitcher-ACC cupboard-DAT put-CAUS-PAST-1SG
‘‘I made Hasan put the pitcher into the cupboard’’
7. Bolivian Quechua makes use of an assistive derivational morpheme -ysi with
the meaning ‘‘to help’’, as illustrated by the following sentence (van de
Kerke 1996: 28):
mamma-y-ta wawqe-y-ta maylla-ysi-ni
mother-1SG-ACC brother-1SG-ACC wash-ASSISTIVE-1SG
‘‘I help my mother to wash my brother’’
Explain why there are two nouns with accusative marking in this sentence.
8. Which kind of valency change is involved in the difference between the two
following sentences from the Austronesian language Kambera (Klamer
1998: 201):
I Ama na-kei-yaj na menjaj
ART father 3SG.NOM-buy-3SG.ACC ART table
‘‘Father buys the table’’
I Ama na-kei-nggak na menjaj
ART father 3SG.NOM-buy-1SG.DAT ART table
‘‘Father buys the table for me’’
(Identical subscripts indicate coreference of a pronominal marker on the
verb and an NP.)
9. The following two Dutch passive sentences only differ in that the first
sentence has a present imperfective interpretation and the second a present
perfective one.
a. Jan word-t geslagen
John become-PRES.3SG beat.PAST.PTCP
‘‘John is beaten’’
b. Jan is geslagen
John be.PRES.3SG beat.PAST.PTCP
‘‘John has been beaten’’
Note that both finite verbs wordt and is are present imperfect tense forms of
the verbs worden ‘‘to become’’ and zijn ‘‘to be’’ respectively. How might
this unexpected interpretation of worden and zijn in combination with past
participles be accounted for in the grammar of Dutch?
morphology and syntax 205
10. Consider the following sentence from Middle Dutch:
Dit liep hi ende dede den coninc cont
This walked he and did the king word
‘‘He went and told this to the king’’
In this sentence, the object dit of the verbal expression dede cont ‘‘did
word’’ precedes the intransitive verb liep ‘‘walked’’. How might this
extraordinary position of the object be explained?
Further reading
The issue of how to analyse the lexical conceptual structure of verbs is dis-
cussed in Talmy (1985), and in a number of studies by Jackendoff (see Jackend-
off 2002 for a synthesis). The relation between lexical semantics and argument
structure is discussed in Dowty (1991). The distinction between LCS, PAS, and
the level of grammatical functions, and its relevance for morphology is
defended in Rappaport et al. (1993) and in Booij (1992). Valency change is
dealt with in Dixon and Aikhenvald (2000). A typological survey of causatives is
presented in Song (1996).
The language-independent criteria for categorizing an NP as a grammatical
subject are presented in Keenan (1976). Song (2001) gives a good survey of
case assignment systems in the languages of the world. Dixon (1994) is a
detailed study and survey of ergativity phenomena. There is an interesting
debate on the morphological versus the syntactic analysis of noun incorpor-
ation. The syntactic approach is defended in Baker (1988, 1996), the morpho-
logical approach in Mithun (1984, 1999).
The notion ‘constructional idiom’ is discussed in Jackendoff (2002) and
Taylor (2002), its relevance for morphology is argued for in Booij (2002c).
Preverbs are discussed in a number of articles in YoM 2003.
206 interfaces
9
Morphology and semantics
9.1 Semantic interpretation of morphological structure
A basic idea of modern linguistics is that the relation between the meaning
and form of a simplex word is arbitrary. There is no particular reason why
a book should be denoted by the sound sequence [buk], as is the case for
English, and we might therefore say that the word book is an arbitrary
linguistic sign. If all linguistic signs were arbitrary, we would have to
memorize many linguistic expressions, and language would not be a very
Xexible communication system. Happily enough, the arbitrariness in the
form–meaning relation of linguistic expressions is reduced by their having a
layered structure: sentences are not holistic signs, and can be divided into
constituents and ultimately words (syntactic structure), and words in their
turn may have internal structure themselves (complex words). Language is
clearly a combinatorial system. The meaning of complex words is not
completely arbitrary, but (at least partially) motivated. It is an obvious
task for morphologists to investigate the regularities involved in assigning
a particular meaning to a complex word.
The most general principle for the semantic interpretation of both
morphological and syntactic structure is the Compositionality Principle:
(1) The meaning of a complex expression is a compositional function of that of its
constituents, and the way they are combined.
9.1 Semantic interpretation of
morphological structure 207
9.2 Semantics and syntactic
valency 214
9.3 Polysemy 220
Summary 225
Questions 226
Further reading 227
For morphology, this implies that we can derive the meaning of a complex
word on the basis of its internal structure.
Compositionality is an important, but fairly general principle, and the
content of this compositional function requires more detailed speciWcation.
A Wrst speciWcation of this compositional function is that semantic scope
reXects structural hierarchy. Consider the two following nouns from the
Amerindian language Yup’ik (Mithun 1999: 43):
(2) [yug-pag]-cuar [yug-cuar]-pag
person-big-little person-little-big
‘‘little giant’’ ‘‘big midget’’
In the example on the left, the suYx -cuar ‘‘little’’ has been added to the
stem after the suYx -pag ‘‘big’’. Hence, -cuar has semantic scope over yug-
pag. This means that the meaning of -cuar does not modify the meaning of
yug only, but the meaning of the whole stem yug-pag. In the right example,
the inverse situation applies. Hence, there are semantic diVerences between
these two words with the same set of morphemes which reXect diVerences in
morphological structure. A similar observation can be made about the
English adjective unbelievable. This adjective has the meaning ‘‘cannot be
believed’’, and not the meaning ‘‘can be not believed’’. This reXects the fact
that the structure of this adjective is as follows:
(3) [un[[believ]Vable]A]A
That is, the preWx un- has scope over the stem believable.
In the case of compounds, it is the notion ‘head’ that we need for
a proper semantic interpretation: the meaning of the non-head of a
compound functions as a modiWer of that of the head. This latter statement
is a correspondence rule that speciWes the interface between the formal
structure of a compound and its semantic interpretation. Consider the
following nominal compounds of Dutch:
(4) graan-molen ‘‘corn mill’’
mosterd-molen ‘‘mustard mill’’
verf-molen ‘‘paint mill’’
water-molen ‘‘water mill’’
wind-molen ‘‘wind mill’’
These Wvecompoundsall denote a particular kindofmolen‘‘mill’’.This shows
that the structural notion ‘head of a compound’ that we need for formal
208 interfaces
reasons (such as the fact that the head determines the gender of the whole
compound) is essential for the semantic interpretation of compounds as well.
Headship induces the ‘is a’ relation: a graanmolen is a molen. The relationship
between head and non-head can be circumscribed as ‘has some relation to’.
This is an intentionally vague semantic qualiWcation. When we paraphrase
theseWvecompoundswegetquitediVerentcircumscriptionsoftheirmeanings:
(5) graan-molen: mill that grinds corn
mosterd-molen: mill that grinds mustard seeds for the production of mustard
verf-molen: mill that grinds wood for the production of paint
water-molen: (i) mill that is powered by water, (ii) mill that transports water
wind-molen: mill that is powered by wind
The semantic paraphrase ‘has some relation to’ can be referred to as R. What
we have to say for languages with right-headed compounds is that the
compound structure AB correlates with the semantic structure R(B,A), that
is, ‘B has some relation to A’. The exact nature of this relation is not a matter
of the grammar, but of world knowledge (also called encyclopedic knowledge)
and, in some cases, knowledge of the context in which a compound is used.
The compounds in (4–5) are all established compounds, which means that the
speciWc interpretation of R has been Wxed. For new compounds, the content
of R can be inferred at the time of its being uttered on the basis of knowledge
of the world and/or context. For instance, when I came across the English
compound umbrella organization for the Wrst time, I had no problem in
understanding it, and I did not have to look it up in my English dictionary.
The interpretation is obviously ‘‘organization that functions like an
umbrella’’. An important semantic component of words is their function,
and in this example umbrella is a further speciWcation of that function. In
addition, this compound shows that language users are able to interpret
metaphorical use of language. In metaphors, notions from one domain of
knowledge are transferred to another domain. We know that an umbrella has
a protective function, and can keep one or more persons protected against
rain or sun under its screen. This knowledge is then transferred to the more
abstract domain of organizational structure, leading to the interpretation
that we have to do here with some organizational superstructure.
It is useful to distinguish between the notions meaning and interpretation.
The meaning contribution of right-headed compound structures of the type
AB is R(B,A), and this relationship then receives a speciWc interpretation
for each individual compound, by means of interpretational mechanisms as
morphology and semantics 209
those discussed above. These mechanisms are pragmatic in nature since
they follow from the pragmatic principle of cooperation between speaker
and hearer: try to come up with the most sensible interpretation possible so
that we understand each other.
The high degree of abstractness (or vagueness) of the meaning contribu-
tion of compound structure makes compounding an extremely Xexible
device from a semantic point of view. This, in combination with its trans-
parent morphological structure, undoubtedly contributes to its enormous
productivity in many languages.
A similar proWtable vagueness can be observed in two other wordforma-
tion processes, conversion and the derivation of relational adjectives.
Consider the following cases of conversion in Dutch:
(6) Noun Verb
bier ‘‘beer’’ bier ‘‘drink beer’’
kaas ‘‘cheese’’ kaas ‘‘produce cheese’’
melk ‘‘milk’’ melk ‘‘take milk from an animal’’
tafel ‘‘table’’ tafel ‘‘dine’’
water ‘‘urine’’ water ‘‘urinate’’
These verbs all have the meaning ‘‘action that has some relationship R with
the base-noun’’, but the exact nature of this relation varies from word to
word. Clearly, the meaning of these words is compositionally determinable,
but we need other, non-linguistic resources to come up with a speciWc inter-
pretation of R. Once they have been coined, with a speciWc interpretation,
that interpretation might become the conventionalized interpretation, often
registered in dictionaries. Storage of the conventionalized interpretation is
particularly a must for English verbs derived from proper nouns such as to
boycott, to hoover, and to xerox. The proper noun Boycott as such does not
give you a clue as to what a verb to boycott might mean. Hence, the meaning
of these verbs is not computable on the basis of the meaning of their base
nouns without further information on these proper names.
Abstractness of the meaning contribution of morphological structure is
also the key to understanding the manifold interpretations of reduplicative
structures such as plurality, iterativity, and intensity. Consider the follow-
ing sentences from Afrikaans (Botha 1988: 92–3):
(7) a. Die kinders drink bottels-bottels limonade
the children drink bottles-bottles lemonade
‘‘The children drink many bottles of lemonade’’
210 interfaces
b. Hij lek-lek oor sy droë lippe
he lick-lick over his dry lips
‘‘He licks and relicks his dry lips’’
The following rule accounts for the diVerent interpretations of these
reduplicative structures:
(8) Interpret ai ai as [A increased] (where A represents the meaning of a and
increased represents an abstract semantic unit) (Botha 1988: 94).
This is a correspondence rule that relates a particular morphological form to
its semantic structure. The abstract meaning increased will then receive a
more speciWc interpretation by means of conceptualization rules which deWne
conceptual well-formedness. For instance, the following conceptualization
rule may be assumed: if A has the meaning component countable thing, the
property increased must receive a numerical interpretation. This is the case
in sentence (7a). In example (7b), it is a verb that is reduplicated. Verbs denote
events with the measurable property of duration. Hence, with verbs the
notion increased should be interpreted as increase of time, another example
of a conceptualization rule. However, licking one’s lips is a bounded event.
Hence, the only sensible interpretation here is an iterative one: repeated
licking must be involved. This rule of iterative interpretation of bounded
events is a third example of a conceptualization rule. Such rules thus do not
specify the interface between formal structure and semantic interpretation,
but further develop the semantic interpretation.
This analysis of the interpretation of complex words shows that it is a
dynamic and Xexible process. This is also the case for the interpretation
of complex adjectives. Many kinds of denominal adjectives function as
relational adjectives (cf. section 4.1). Relational adjectives denote the
existence of a relation between the noun that they modify and some other
entity evoked by that adjective. They are distinguished from qualifying
adjectives that denote a quality of the noun they modify. Consider the
following examples from English:
(9) the Americ-an Xag
a person-al computer
a spous-al hire
The meaning contributions of the diVerent denominal suYxes involved are
all the same: ‘‘related to base noun’’. Thus, they relate the base noun of
the adjective to the head noun that these adjectives modify in a phrase. An
morphology and semantics 211
American Xag does not denote a Xag that is American in nature, but the Xag
of America. Due to this relational nature of such adjectives, they cannot be
used in predicative position (except when contrast is involved, as in (10b),
nor can they be modiWed, unlike qualitative adjectives (10c):
(10) a. *The Xag is American/*a very American Xag
b. That Xag is not Américan but Canádian
c. That Xag is blue/a very blue Xag
The same applies to the other two examples in (9): a personal computer is a
computer meant for use by individual persons, not a computer that is
personal in nature. A spousal hire denotes the situation in which the
employer not only hires a person, but also her or his spouse.
By adding a modiWer, relational adjectives can be forced to be inter-
preted as qualifying adjectives. If I call someone a very American lady,
I invoke all the prototypical qualities of American ladies (wearing shorts in
summer, speaking loudly and with a lot of gestures, etc.). This kind of
interpretational shift is thus a case of type coercion: modiWers require
qualifying adjectives as their adjectival heads, and hence, in such cases
denominal adjectives are interpreted as qualifying adjectives. This is
another demonstration of the dynamics and Xexibility of meaning assign-
ment to complex words.
Relational adjectives play an important though not exclusive role in
what have been called bracketing paradoxes. For instance, a moral philoso-
pher is not a philosopher who is moral, but someone who deals with moral
philosophy. Hence, there seems to be a mismatch between the formal
structure of this phrase, and its semantic interpretation:
(11) syntax: [[moral]A [philosopher]N]NP
semantics: [[moral philosophy]er]
The same observation applies to phrases such as nuclear physicist, criminal
lawyer, small farmer, and Wrst violinist. On second thought, however, there
is no bracketing paradox involved. The same kind of interpretation occurs
when there is no possibility of bracketing the phrase diVerently at the
semantic level, as shown by the following examples with underived nouns:
(12) a good athlete, an old friend
A good athlete is not necessarily a good person, but someone who is good as
an athlete. Similarly, an old friend is not necessarily old, but someone the
212 interfaces
friendship with whom is old. In these cases, this interpretation cannot be
attributed to a diVerence in bracketing between the formal and the seman-
tic structure. What we need therefore is a semantic principle that tells us
how to interpret such phrases, both those with denominal relational adjec-
tives and those with simplex adjectives. The general idea is that an attribu-
tive adjective, whether a qualifying adjective or a relational adjective, may
modify only part of the semantic structure of the head noun. The phrase old
friend can mean ‘‘a friend who is old’’. In that case, old only says something
of what we may call the person component of the meaning of friend. If we
interpret this phrase as ‘‘someone who has been a friend for a long time’’,
the adjective mentions a property of another meaning component, the
function component ‘‘friendship’’. Denominal relational adjectives have
the speciWc property that the entity invoked by their base noun, for instance
crime in the case of criminal, functions as an argument of the function
component of the meaning of lawyer. This function may be circumscribed
as ‘‘giving advice on legal matters concerning x’’. In the phrase criminal
lawyer the x will then be taken to stand for ‘‘crime’’.
How does the interpretation of morphological structure proceed in those
cases in which the morphological operation involved does not consist of
concatenation, but of operations such as vowel change? How do we deal
with the interpretation of the past tense form saw of to see, in which there
is no separate past tense morpheme? A possible answer is that such oper-
ations are triggered by the presence of morphosyntactic features such as
[þpast] or an abstract grammatical morpheme past. Such features or
morphemes will then be linked to a semantic property past at the semantic
level. The linking rules will also specify the scope of past. The semantic
scope of this property is not just the verb itself, but the whole event
described, as represented in a semi-formal way in (13):
(13) Indriaas saw the accident , past [see, Indriaas, the accident]
Thus, it is speciWed that the event of Indriaas seeing the accident took place
before the moment of speaking.
In sum, the Compositionality Principle is the main principle of interface
between formal (morphological and syntactic) structure and semantic
structure. This general principle requires further speciWcations of the sort
discussed above, in order to do justice to the complexities of this interface.
In addition, there are conceptualization rules pertaining to the semantic
level only that further enrich semantic structure.
morphology and semantics 213
9.2 Semantics and syntactic valency
The relation between morphology and syntactic valency has already been
broached in section 8.3. However, it also needs attention in a chapter on
morphology and semantics because the syntactic valency of a complex
word is (at least partially) determined by its semantic properties.
As observed in section 1.3, one of the functions of morphology is to
change the syntactic category of words with the eVect that other syntactic
uses are made possible. A cross-linguistically very common form is that of
action nominalization, in which verbal constructions are deverbalized, and
acquire a noun-like behaviour. There are degrees of deverbalization as
the following examples of deverbal nominalization in English show
(Malouf 2000: 93):
(14) a. Chris was shocked that Pat illegally destroyed the evidence
b. Chris was shocked by Pat having illegally destroyed the evidence
c. Chris was shocked by Pat’s having illegally destroyed the evidence
d. Chris was shocked by Pat’s illegal destroying of the evidence
e. Chris was shocked by Pat’s illegal destruction of the evidence
In (14b–d) we see the gerundive nominals having destroyed and destroying,
and in (14e) the deverbal action noun destruction. In the sentences (14b–e),
these deverbal nouns are used as the heads of a noun phrase. This can be
concluded from the fact that they occur in a PP with the preposition by.
Yet, they show some verb-like behaviour as well. This is most clearly the
case with the gerundive nominals that co-occur with the adverb illegally,
which is impossible to use with the derived noun destruction. Selecting
adverbial forms as modiWers is a distinguishing property of verbs and
adjectives, whereas nouns select adjectives as modiWers. Furthermore, in
(14b, c), the object of the verb destroy, the phrase the evidence, appears as a
bare NP, without a preposition. This is of course a prototypical property of
verbs rather than of nouns. In (14e), the complement-NP of destruction has
to be preceded by a preposition, the default preposition of.
It will be clear then that such nominalization patterns pose quite an
analytical challenge to linguists, and raise the issue whether categories such
as V and N can always be sharply distinguished. This is why deverbal
nominalizations have been qualiWed as belonging to the set of mixed
categories (also called transcategorial constructions). Other examples of
such mixed categories are verbal participles. As we saw in section 5.1 for
214 interfaces
German, they behave as adjectives with respect to inXection, and as verbs
with respect to the kind of phrases with which they can combine.
These observations suggest that the function of morphology might
be that of category change only, without any particular semantic eVect.
The (partial) preservation of the syntactic valency of the base of such
complex words is referred to as inheritance. Deverbal nouns in -ion diVer
from gerundive nominals in exhibiting a lesser degree of inheritance of
verbal properties, as we saw above. In deverbal nominalization of this type,
the deverbal noun inherits the Predicate Argument Structure of its base
verb, but the syntactic expression of the arguments is diVerent from that of
the base verb. They must be expressed in an of-PP, or in the prenominal
possessive form with ’s. Moreover, the syntactic expression of the inherited
arguments of such deverbal nouns seems to be optional; compare:
(15) a. Pat’s destruction of the evidence
b. the destruction of the evidence
c. Pat’s destruction
d. the destruction
In (15c), Pat is interpreted as the Patient of destruction, not as Agent, unless
there is some speciWc context in which objects can be omitted.
Action nouns can further developfromsimpleevent nouns into resultnouns
denoting the result of the action. In the latter interpretation they no longer
denote an event with participants, and hence do not allow for Agent phrases.
When such nouns are interpreted as result nouns, they can be pluralized.
Therefore, such plural deverbal nouns exclude the use of Agent phrases:
(16) Extensive collections of shells (*by Indriaas)
These expressions (*by my father) are old-fashioned
In sum, when there are diVerences in syntactic valency between verbs and
their corresponding deverbal nouns, these diVerences can be seen as reXect-
ing diVerences in their semantic structure. This shows once more the strong
dependence of syntactic valency on the semantic properties of words.
The issue of inheritance of syntactic valency also crops up in the analysis
of compounds of the following type:
(17) coVee-maker, pasta-eater, story-teller, truck-driver
In these compounds headed by a deverbal agent noun, the left constituent
is interpreted preferably as the Patient of the action denoted by the
morphology and semantics 215
verbal base of the head noun. How are we going to account for that
interpretation? We cannot consider these words to be derived by means
of the suYx -er from verbal compounds of the N þ V type, since this is not
a productive type of compounding in English: compounds such as to
coVee-make or to pasta-eat cannot be formed. Hence, a word such as
coVee-maker must be considered a case of N þ N compounding, with the
head noun being a deverbal noun.
There are two ways of accounting for the Patient interpretation of the left
constituent. The default one is to simply assume that the Patient interpret-
ation is a Wlling-in of the general relation R that exists between the two parts
of a compound. For maker, the most sensible interpretation of the relation
with coVee is that coVee is a speciWcation of what is made. The other
analytical option is to assume that deverbal nouns keep the Predicate
Argument Structure of their verbal base. The semantic structure of maker
will then be as follows, with the PAS of its verbal base incorporated:
(18) x [make, xAGENT, yPATIENT]
This semantic structure is a slightly more formal representation of the
informal description of the meaning of maker as ‘‘one who makes some-
thing’’. The semantic eVect of the -er-suYx is that it binds the x-argument of
the verbal base. This means that this argument cannot be expressed any
more. Hence, only the y-argument is left to be expressed by a nominal,
either as the left constituent of a compound, or as an NP that is preceded by
the default preposition of. Both the compound coVee-maker and the phrase
maker of coVee are well-formed expressions.
A possible argument for the second analytical option based on facts of
Dutch is that this language has a number of compounds of which the
deverbal head only occurs in compounds or with a PP-complement
(Booij 1988):
(19) a. ijs-bereider/bereider van ijs ‘‘ice maker/maker of ice’’
b. bevel-hebber ‘‘lit. command haver, commander’’
c. woord-voerder ‘‘lit. word carrier, spokesman’’
The nouns bereider and voerder do not occur outside these contexts, and the
deverbal noun hebber does occur as a noun by itself, but only in the idio-
syncratic interpretation ‘‘greedy person’’. The verbs involved (bereiden ‘‘to
prepare’’, hebben ‘‘to have’’, and voeren ‘‘to carry’’ are obligatorily transitive
verbs, with two arguments. If argument structure is inherited by deverbal
216 interfaces
nouns in -er, it is predicted that the second argument must be expressed,
either morphologically or syntactically, as in (19a). The verb hebben
‘‘to have’’ is also obligatorily transitive. In the lexicalized compound
bevelhebber the x-argument is bound by -er, and the y-argument by
bevel ‘‘command’’. There is an alternative analysis, however, for words such
as bevelhebber and woordvoerder. They might have been derived directly from
the Dutch lexical units bevel hebben ‘‘to command’’ and woord voeren ‘‘to
speak’’. In that case, we do need the nouns hebber and voerder as building
blocks of these words. In short, there is no established analysis of such facts.
The inheritance of syntactic valency as analysed here is the eVect of
preservation of argument structure of the base words. There is, however,
also a kind of inheritance of a more syntactic nature, with little or
no semantics involved. Verbs may select a speciWc preposition for the
complement they occur with, a prepositional object. This also applies to a
variety of adjectives. This choice of preposition is an idiosyncrasy that has
to be encoded in the lexicon, and this choice is taken over by the derived
word, as illustrated in (20):
(20) to long for longing for
to compare to comparable to
to hope for hope for
to trust in trust in
divide by divisible by
averse to averseness to
curious about curiosity about
susceptible to susceptibility to
This implies that in these cases there is a transfer of speciWc syntactic
subcategorization information from the base word to its derivative.
The relation between the semantics of a word-formation process and its
eVect on syntactic valency is also at stake in two other English word-
formation processes, the coining of deverbal adjectives ending in -able,
and middle verbs:
(21) do-able ‘‘can be done’’
drink-able ‘‘can be drunk, Wt for drinking’’
read-able ‘‘can be read, pleasant to read’’
wash-able ‘‘can be washed’’
(22) This book reads easily
These products sell well
This chicken broils excellently
morphology and semantics 217
Both processes serve to create words that do not denote events but stative
properties. In this respect they are quite unlike the passive construction,
which does denote events. Since these types of word do not denote events,
they cannot occur with an Agent phrase. The only argument that is
expressed is the Patient-argument of the base verb. This argument is stated
to have the property that it can participate in the kind of event denoted by
the base verb. Thus, sentences like the following are ungrammatical:
(23) *This tea is drinkable by Mary
*This book reads easily by John
The semantic structure of these adjectives and verbs implies that there is no
Agent to express, not even in a by-phrase, because there is no Agent-
participant in the Lexical Conceptual Structure of these words, and hence
they are intransitive predicates.
You may have noticed that my gloss of drinkable is somewhat imprecise.
If we say of a wine that it is drinkable, we mean that it is a good wine to
drink. What we observe here, is a more general pragmatic Non-Redundancy
Constraint involved in the interpretation of words. It seems superXuous to
say of wine that is drinkable, meaning that it can be drunk. Of course it can!
Therefore, if someone nevertheless states that it is drinkable, we infer that
this must mean it is good wine to drink, otherwise the information would be
superXuous. We assume that speakers try to be informative, after all, and
to provide relevant information. For the same reason, it seems odd to
say that a book can be read. Thus, adjectives such as drinkable and readable
receive an interpretation of positive evaluation. The same holds for
middle verbs. In their concrete use in sentences, middle verbs are always
accompanied by an evaluative adverb such as well or easily.
This pragmatic principle may also explain why denominal adjectives in
-ed such as eyed do not occur on their own, but in compounds only:
(24) ?eyed blue-eyed
?faced red-faced
?Wsted two-Wsted
?handed two-handed
?handed right-handed
The adjectives in the left column of (24) are morphologically well-formed.
However, they violate the pragmatic Non-Redundancy Constraint. It is
expected that human beings have a face, and hence it does not seem to
make much sense from a pragmatic point of view to say My husband is
faced. Hence the use of such adjectives is infelicitous (indicated here by the
218 interfaces
question mark) unless they are embedded in a compound. Yet, this might
not be the whole story. If a man has a lot of hair we prefer to call him a
hairy man, and a haired man sounds odd although it makes sense from the
pragmatic point of view.
The crucial role of the semantics in determining the syntactic valency of
derived verbs can be illustrated by the formation of Dutch verbs by means
of the preWx be-. Morphology may be used to form obligatorily transitive
verbs from verbs that are intransitive or optionally transitive. In Dutch, the
preWx be- is used for this purpose as shown in (25). These examples show
that, whatever the syntactic valency of the input verb, the syntactic valency
of the output verb is always that of an obligatorily transitive verb. The
Lexical Conceptual Structure of deverbal be-verbs can be circumscribed as
follows: ‘x completely aVects y by executing the action expressed by the
base verb’. This means that the Predicate Argument Structure of such verbs
always comprises two arguments. Moreover, the resulting verbs are always
telic verbs because the endpoint of the action is implied: the y-argument is
completely aVected, and thus the end of the action is implied.
(25) Type of input verb Output verb
intransitive
loop ‘‘to walk’’ iets beloop ‘‘to walk on
something’’
klim ‘‘to climb’’ iets beklim ‘‘to climb on
with prepositional object something’’
aan iets twijfel ‘‘to doubt about
something’’
iets betwijfel ‘‘to doubt
something’’
met iemand vecht ‘‘to Wght with
somebody’’
iemand bevecht ‘‘to Wght
somebody’’
with direct object
iets schilder ‘‘to paint something’’ iets beschilder ‘‘to cover
something with paint’’
iets plak ‘‘to glue something’’ iets beplak (met iets) ‘‘to cover
something (with something)’’
with direct and prepositional object
iets van iemand roof ‘‘to rob some-
one from something’’
iemand beroof (van iets) ‘‘to rob
somebody (from something)’’
iets in iets plant ‘‘to plant something
in something’’
iers beplant (met iets) ‘‘to plant
something (with something)’’
Source: Booij 2002a: 192.
morphology and semantics 219
We can now predict the syntactic valency of be-verbs on the basis of the
following rule: ‘if a telic verb has a Patient-argument, this argument
must always be expressed syntactically’. This regularity is an example of a
correspondencerule that speciWestheinterfacebetween syntax and semantics.
Thus,thefactthatthesebe-verbsareobligatorilytransitiveisfullypredictable.
In sum, the eVects of morphological operations on the syntactic valency of
input words are primarily the eVects of the semantic changes brought about
by these operations. If the semantic changes are minimal, the diVerences in
syntactic valency between base word and derived word will also be minimal.
9.3 Polysemy
Consider the following list of English deverbal nouns in -er, subdivided into
a number of semantic categories:
(26) Agent baker, writer
Instrument mower, pointer
Experiencer feeler, hearer
Action breather, disclaimer
Locative diner, sleeper
Clearly, it is not the case that the suYx -er is used only to derive agent
nouns. So should we assume a number of diVerent suYxes -er, each with a
meaning of their own? Well, there is certainly more than one suYx -er in
English: there is also the comparative suYx -er, with a completely diVerent
meaning. That is, there are at least two homophonous suYxes -er. In order
to interpret the variation in meaning for the deverbal suYx -er, another
notion is more appropriate, that of polysemy. We speak of polysemy
when a morpheme or a word has more than one meaning, but with
some systematic relation between these diVerent meanings. Consider the
following meanings for the word head:
(27) 1. The top part of the body in humans and some other higher animals;
2. Person (as in dinner at 20 dollars a head);
3. Leader
Actually, there are many more meanings for head, but these three suYce for
our purposes. Meaning 1 is the primary meaning of this word. Meaning 2
220 interfaces
can be considered to be derived from this primary meaning through the
semantic mechanism of metonymy in which a word is interpreted as denot-
ing something that is associated with the object that it literally denotes. In
this example, the word head is used to denote the person who is the owner
of the head. In the third meaning, we speak of metaphorical use: just as a
head in its literal sense governs the body to which it belongs, a human being
may govern an institution of some sort (which can also be called a ‘body’).
Thus, these three diVerent meanings of head can be related systematically in
terms of general mechanisms of semantic interpretation, and we consider
this a case of polysemy.
There are also systematic explanations for what one might call the poly-
semy of the suYx -er. To begin with, the subject argument of the underlying
verb may be a human agent (baker), a non-human, impersonal one (pointer
‘‘a rod used to direct attention’’) or an experiencer (hearer). Hence,
the diVerent interpretations correlate with the diVerent semantic roles of
the subject arguments of the base verbs. In the case of sleeper ‘‘sleeping car’’
something else is at stake. Here, the location (or space) of the action of
sleeping is denoted. This interpretation can be understood by means of the
notion domain shift: one may go from one semantic domain to another,
related one, and thus derive new interpretations. An example of such a
cross-linguistically valid domain shift chain is:
(28) PERSON > OBJECT > ACTIVITY > SPACE > TIME > QUALITY (Heine
et al. 1991: 48)
In this chain, one might go from left to right, from one domain to the next.
For instance, the English word reader, which is a word for a person, can also
be shifted to the domain of OBJECT, and be interpreted as a kind of patient:
‘‘collection of reading material’’. Similarly, the word diner that can denote a
person who dines can also denote a space where one dines, a (speciWc
American type of) restaurant. The possibility of such domain shifts also
explains the activity name disclaimer and the space or location name sleeper.
These kinds of domain shifts are examples of metaphorical and meto-
nymical extensions. Metaphorical operations conceptualize domains of
cognition in terms of other, usually less abstract domains. The shift from
PERSON to INSTRUMENT is an example of domain shift that one often
Wnds in natural languages. This chain can be seen as a metaphorical one:
the notion AGENT is transferred to the domain of inanimate material
things that are conceived of as agents that perform a particular task.
morphology and semantics 221
A locative interpretation (as in diner) looks more like metonymy: the
name for the agent is transferred to the location of the action denoted by
the base verb.
In (29) deverbal nouns of Hungarian (Comrie and Thompson 1985: 355)
and Dutch (Booij 1986) illustrate that these domain shifts occur cross-
linguistically. This is what should be the case since such interpretational
chains are cognitive in nature, and hence applicable to diVerent languages.
Note, moreover, that quite a number of such nouns have more than one
interpretation. The Dutch agent noun sender can be interpreted as an agent
noun denoting a human being, but also as a radio or tv channel, or an
instrument for transmitting signals. If the instrument interpretation is the
established one, as is the case for Dutch opener (an instrument to open cans or
bottles), the (human) agent interpretation can always be activated and used,
as in De opener van deze expositie ‘‘The opener of this exhibition’’. The
American English word diner for a certain type of restaurant can still be used
for someone who dines. This means that we do not have to assume a list of
diVerent meanings for these deverbal suYxes. It is the individual complex
words with these suYxes that show this semantic variation, and this variation
follows from independently established principles of semantic interpretation.
(29) Hungarian (deverbal suYx -ö/ó)
Agent ı́r-ó ‘‘writer’’
Instrument hegyez-ö ‘‘pencil sharpener’’
Location társalg-ó ‘‘parlor’’ < társalg ‘‘to talk’’
Dutch (deverbal suYx -er)
Agent schrijv-er ‘‘writer’’ < schrijf ‘‘to write’’
Instrument maai-er ‘‘mower’’ < maai ‘‘to mow’’
Event miss-er ‘‘failure’’ < miss ‘‘to miss’’
Patient
bijsluit-er ‘‘instruction’’ < bijsluit ‘‘to enclose (with
medication)’’
The variation in interpretation for diVerent words of the same morpho-
logical type is also quite spectacular in the case of diminutives. Starting
from the basic meaning small, one may get to quite a number of interpret-
ational types. Consider the following examples of denominal diminutive
nouns in Dutch that serve to illustrate the wide variety of meaning
contributions associated with the diminutive suYx. Note that some of
these diminutive nouns are themselves polysemous:
222 interfaces
(30) kind ‘‘child’’ kind-je ‘‘small child, darling’’
broek ‘‘trousers’’ broek-je ‘‘pants’’
Geert ‘‘boy’s name’’ Geert-je ‘‘girl’s name’’
bier ‘‘beer’’ bier-tje ‘‘glass of beer’’
man ‘‘man’’ mann-e-tje ‘‘small man, little boy, unoYcial worker’’
auto ‘‘car’’ autoo-tje ‘‘small, inexpensive car, toy car’’
Cross-linguistically, the basic meanings of diminutives are those of ‘‘child’’
or ‘‘small’’, two closely related meanings that relate to size. The meaning
component ‘‘child’’ extends into notions such as aVection, sympathy, and
pet, that is, there is often a meaning component of endearment involved.
The notion ‘‘small’’ may also be associated with contempt, as when one
refers to a small and cheap car as an autootje. This second cluster of
meanings might be subsumed under the notion ‘attitude’ or ‘evaluation’.
Thus, diminutive morphology belongs to the semantic category of evalu-
ative morphology. The use of diminutive morphology for the creation of
female names probably reXects the idea that women are physically smaller
than men. The diVerent meanings of the diminutive can be related by
conceiving of its semantics as a radial category. A radial category has one
or more core meanings from which the other meanings derive through sem-
antic extension mechanisms such as metaphor. The structure in Figure 9.1
is a reduced version of what Jurafsky (1996: 542) considers as the universal
structure of the semantic category ‘diminutive’. The Dutch examples given
above are instantiations of the diVerent semantic categories in this scheme.
In Figure 9.1 related core meanings are given in bold. The diminutive noun
biertje in (30) is an example of the partitive use of the diminutive, it denotes
a part of a container with beer. The extensions on the bottom line of this
scheme are typically pragmatic in nature: since small children tend to
evoke aVection, these feelings can be transferred to other categories and
situations.
Fig. 9.1 The radial semantic structure of diminutives
morphology and semantics 223
In many cases the use of a diminutive suYx has a strong pragmatic
rationale, instead of just qualifying something as small. Therefore, Dressler
and Barberesi (1994) interpret the evaluative nature of the diminutive by
considering the pragmatic feature [non-serious] as its basic meaning. It is
often used in ‘motherese’, the language addressed to small children, as in
the following example from Viennese German (Dressler and Barberesi
1994: 106):
(31) Gut-i gut-i bist doch g’scheit-i g’scheit-i
good-dim good-dim are particle clever-dim clever-dim
‘‘Good-y good-y, you are a nice little clever child’’
The following observation by Wierzbicka (1991: 55), cited by Dressler and
Barbaresi (1994), on the use of the diminutive suYx in English is also very
relevant for grasping the role of diminutives:
(32) ‘Thus calling mosquitoes mozzies, the speaker is good-humouredly dismiss-
ing the problem: he thinks of mozzies as small (but not endearing), and
expects that the addressee would share this attitude’.
This is the kind of euphemistic use of the diminutive that also occurs when
a Dutch speaker asks: Hebt U nog een minuutje voor me ‘‘Do you have a
minute-dim for me?’’. You can be pretty sure that the conversation will take
more than a minute.
Another pragmatic role for morphology is the use of honoriWcs that express
diVerent degrees of politeness, and may also reXect the position in the social
hierarchy of speaker and addressee. In Japanese, for instance, the predicate
of a subject receives a special honoriWc form if the speaker addresses a
socially superior person. A relatively simple example of the politeness use of
the honoriWc suYx -masi in Japanese is given in (33) (Harada 1976: 502):
(33) a. Ame ga hut-ta
rain subj fall-past
‘‘It rained’’
b. Ame ga huri-masi-ta
rain subj fall-honor-past
‘‘It rained’’ (polite speech)
These examples show that the interpretation and use of complex words is
not only a matter of cognitive principles and mechanisms, but also has a
pragmatic dimension.
224 interfaces
A particular interpretation of a complex word may be the established
one, as is often the case. This is referred to as lexicalization. It does not
mean necessarily that such a word has become irregular, or that other
interpretations are now impossible (recall the example of diner), but simply
that a particular interpretation of a word has become part of the lexical
norm of the language community involved. Advertisements make use of
this. For instance, in an advertisement for convertible cars the Dutch
adjective dak-loos ‘‘lit. roof-less, homeless’’ was used in the sentence Wij
willen U graag dakloos maken ‘‘We would like to make you homeless/
rooXess’’, in which the literal interpretation ‘‘roof-less’’ is reactivated,
thus playing with the contrast between poor, homeless people, and people
who can aVord to buy a convertible type of car.
Summary
The semantic interpretation of complex words is governed by the general
principle of compositionality. Correspondence rules specify relationships
between formal structure and semantic interpretation of complex words.
The semantic scope of morpho-syntactic properties may be larger than the
word on which they are marked, as is the case for tense and mood proper-
ties. The semantic interpretation of a word may be further enriched by
conceptualization rules.
Pragmatic principles, knowledge of the world and of the context in which
a word is used, must also be invoked to arrive at a proper interpretation
and use of complex words.
The semantic interpretation of complex words and the semantic eVects of
morphological operations may have implications for the syntactic valency
of complex words, since the syntactic valency of a word reXects its semantic
properties.
Polysemy of aYxes and of individual complex words is a pervasive
phenomenon in the realm of complex words. It is the eVect of semantic
extension mechanisms such as metaphor and metonymy, and can be under-
stood more generally in terms of domain shift chains.
The meaning contribution of a particular aYx may be strongly prag-
matic in nature, as is the case for diminutives and honoriWcs.
morphology and semantics 225
Questions
1. Specify the semantic relationship between the two constituents of the
following English compounds: horse doctor, tree doctor, voodoo doctor,
hospital doctor.
2. Identify for each of the following complex words which semantic extension
mechanism is involved in their interpretation: beehive, bottleneck, conven-
tion, cliffhanger, holder, opposition, printer.
3. Which meaning component of the head noun is modified by the preceding
adjective in the following NPs: a rural policeman, a Martian expedition, an
early riser, an individual decision?
4. Consider the following cases of adjective reduplication in Malagasy (Keenan
and Polinsky 1998: 571):
fotsy ‘‘white’’ fotsyfotsy ‘‘whitish’’
maimbo ‘‘stinky’’ maimbomaimbo ‘‘somewhat stinky’’
hafa ‘‘different’’ hafahafa ‘‘somewhat different’’
lo ‘‘rotten’’ lolo ‘‘somewhat rotten’’
What conclusion can be drawn from these data as to the universality of
correspondence rule (8)?
5. In the following sentence with a deverbal noun in -ion the use of a prepos-
itional by-phrase leads to ungrammaticality:
John was the selection of/*by the committee
Why does the use of by lead to ungrammaticality?
6. Consider the following Turkish noun phrase (Kornfilt 1997: 225):
Türk-ler-in Istanbul-u feth-i
Turk-PL-GEN Istanbul-ACC conquest-3SG
‘‘The Turks’ conquest of Istanbul’’
How might it be explained that the noun Istanbul receives accusative case
here from a (deverbal) noun?
7. Dutch has a compound parkeergarage ‘‘lit. parking garage, multi-storey/
underground car park’’. To what extent is this compound a violation of the
Non-Redundancy Constraint, given the following range of meanings of the
Dutch word garage: ‘‘garage, service-station’’?
8. Specify the semantic scope of the suffix -ible in the following sentence:
This number is divisible by three.
9. The following English deverbal nouns in -ing are all polysemous. Determine
for each of them how their different meanings relate to each other: blessing,
crossing, drawing, dwelling, opening.
226 interfaces
10. Some languages allow for double diminutives in which the root of
the word is followed by two diminutive suffixes, as in Polish kot-eč-ek
‘‘cat-DIM-DIM, dear pussy’’, and Afrikaans huis-ie-tjie ‘‘house-DIM-DIM, dear
little house’’.
Explain why it is not so odd from the semantic point of view to use two
diminutive suffixes in one word.
Further reading
Conceptualization rules are discussed in Jackendoff (1983, 2002). The inter-
pretation of English conversion verbs is discussed in Clark and Clark (1979) and
Aronoff (1980).
The semantic resolution of the bracketing paradox issue is dealt with in more
detail in Spencer (1988) and Beard (1991).
A survey of phenomena of inheritance and nominalizations, and discussions
of their proper analysis is found in Comrie and Thompson (1985), Hoekstra
(1986), Grimshaw (1990), and Koptjevskaja-Tamm (1993). The analysis of
verbal compounds is discussed in Selkirk (1982), Botha (1984), Hoeksema
(1985), and Booij (1988).
The Non-Redundancy Constraint is discussed in Ackerman and Goldberg
(1996), and Goldberg and Ackerman (2001).
Cruse (2000) deals with polysemy in general. The polysemy of English and
Dutch -er-nouns is discussed in Booij (1986) and in Booij and Lieber (2004).
morphology and semantics 227
This page intentionally left blank
Part V
Morphology and Mind
This page intentionally left blank
10
Morphology and
psycholinguistics
10.1 Morphology and mind
The previous chapters provided an introduction to morphological phe-
nomena, and discussed how these phenomena should be accounted for in
the grammar of natural languages. In this chapter, we will see how mor-
phological knowledge (knowledge of complex words and of morphological
rules) is represented in the human mind and how it is used in language
processing. This is an important topic because the mental representation of
morphological knowledge is a battle ground for diVerent theories about the
nature of linguistic rules, as we will see below. A related topic is the balance
between storage and computation. Knowledge in a particular domain of
human cognition always comprises both storage of information and the
ability to compute new information. For instance, when we want to use the
word books, we have two ways to do this: either we retrieve this plural form
of book from our lexical memory, or we create it on line, by adding the
plural suYx -s to the stem book. What determines the choice between these
two routes? Empirical research of such questions may thus help us to get
10.1 Morphology and mind 231
10.2 The mental lexicon 232
10.3 Acquisition of morphology 236
10.4 Sources of evidence 240
10.5 Models of morphological
knowledge 242
10.6 Morphological
processing 249
Summary 251
Questions 251
Further reading 254
a better understanding of the nature of human cognitive capacities.
Morphology may therefore be qualiWed as a window on the human mind.
In this chapter the empirical domains of psycholinguistic research will be
reviewed: the mental lexicon (‘the dictionary in your head’), the acquisition
of morphological knowledge, and the role of this knowledge in language
perception and production. In the next chapter, on morphological change,
we will see that language change also provides information about the
mental representation of morphological knowledge.
10.2 The mental lexicon
It is quite clear that the lexical knowledge that one has of one’s native
language does not have the format of a dictionary. First, the number of
lexical entries in a good dictionary is much higher than that in our individ-
ual mental list of words. There are many words that most speakers do not
know. You can compute the size of your own vocabulary by checking, on
the basis of a representative sample of words from a good dictionary of
your native language, how many of the words in that sample you know.
Such a sample may be constructed in a number of ways, for example by
taking the Wrst word of each page of that dictionary. This will give you a
percentage p of known words. If the dictionary contains n words, the size of
your mental lexicon is p times n. Adult speakers of English with a higher
education might know up to 50,000 word types, and sometimes more, but
it is certainly a smaller set than the whole English vocabulary, which
comprises hundreds of thousands of words. This estimate concerns the
passive vocabulary, the number of words that you understand. The active
vocabulary, the set of words one uses in language production is much
smaller.
A dictionary is conservative by nature, and hence it will contain words
from the past that nobody uses any more. Each new edition of a printed
dictionary will contain new entries, but will also have deleted a number of
words from the previous edition that have become obsolete. Notwith-
standing this kind of updating, your mental lexicon will always be ahead
of the dictionary, and contains a substantial number of words that are not
listed in dictionaries. New words (neologisms) are coined continuously, and
dictionaries always lag behind. Moreover, the editors of dictionaries use a
threshold for the listing of words: a new word must have a certain degree of
232 morphology and mind
permanence in the language use of more than one speaker before it gets an
entry in a dictionary. Language users do not have such a threshold for their
mental lexicon.
A second diVerence between a dictionary and the mental lexicon is that
words in the mental lexicon bear a number of relationships to each other.
Words with similar meanings or similar phonological forms appear to be
related in the mental lexicon, as can be concluded from speech errors. For
instance, someone who wanted to talk about the sympathy of a musical
conductor used the word symphony instead of sympathy. The similarity in
form between these two words, and the semantic relatedness of symphony
and conductor must have played a role in this speech error. In a dictionary,
on the other hand, semantic relations between words are usually not
expressed directly. Thus, we may conceive of the mental lexicon as a
multidimensional web of words, with all kinds of connections between
those words: semantic similarities, phonological similarities, and morpho-
logical relationships. In a dictionary, on the other hand, words have one
type of relationship only, that of alphabetical ordering. This ordering is
based on the degree of orthographical similarity between words.
A third diVerence between a dictionary and a mental lexicon is that the
latter also stores information about the frequency with which you come
across a word. Linguists may compute the frequency of words on the basis
of large corpora of actual language use. Frequency counts indicate how
many tokens are found for each word type in a particular corpus. For
instance, function words such as determiners have a relatively high
frequency, and the probability that the next word that you come across
when reading an English text is the word the is much higher than that it is
the word ubiquitous. Within the set of English adjectives, the word nice
is used far more frequently than the word opaque.
At Wrst sight, this kind of frequency information may be seen as external
to the human mind and without relevance for the mental representations of
words. Language users do not have a speciWc frequency number for
each word in their mental lexicon, as if you are continuously counting
tokens of words when using language. However, speakers are able to
estimate the relative frequencies of words based on their continuous
exposure to language use. When you ask an English speaker if nice is less
or more frequent than ubiquitous, he/she is certainly able to come up with
the right answer. Moreover, a word with a relatively high frequency of
occurrence is more easily recognized and retrieved than a word with a
morphology and psycholinguistics 233
relatively low frequency. A possible psycholinguistic interpretation of this
latter frequency eVect is to assume that frequency of exposure to a word
correlates with the activation level of that word in the mental lexicon. A
word with a higher activation level is activated faster in language processing.
The standard way of Wnding out about such frequency eVects is that of
psychological experimentation, for instance by means of a lexical decision
task. The participants in such an experiment may be asked to determine
if a sequence of letters shown on a screen is a word of their language. There
are two buttons, one for yes and one for no, and the time interval between
the letter sequence appearing on the screen and one of the buttons being
pushed, the response latency, is measured in milliseconds. The prediction
then is that the higher the frequency of a word as determined by the
experimenter on the basis of a corpus, the shorter the time it takes to
come to a decision. This eVect has been found time and again, and it is
very robust indeed. It is referred to as the frequency eVect.
A related eVect is the cumulative frequency eVect. If, for instance, the
singular form of a noun is highly frequent, this will also have a frequency
eVect on its plural form, even when that plural form itself is not particularly
frequent: the token frequencies of related inXectional word forms contrib-
ute to the activation level of each of them. This is called the base frequency
eVect. Another example is the cumulative root frequency eVect: the summed
frequencies of all words with the same root also appear to aVect response
latencies of individual complex words containing that root.
An example of the calculation of these frequencies for the English verb to
calculate is given in Table 10.1. These counts are based on the CELEX
Table 10.1. Frequency data for calculate
InXected forms Token frequency Family members Base frequency
calculate 108 calculate 574
calculated 340 calculable 4
calculates 21 calculation 343
calculating 105 calculator 89
calculus 50
incalculable 26
incalculably 1
miscalculate 5
miscalculation 25
Source: De Jong et al. 2000: 329.
234 morphology and mind
database, which contains token frequency counts for Dutch, English, and
German words (Baayen et al. 1995). The base frequency of calculate is
the summed token frequencies of its four inXectional forms, 574. The
cumulative root frequency of calculate is the sum of the frequencies of all
the words in its family, 1,117.
The standard psychological interpretation of the base frequency eVect
and the cumulative frequency eVect is that of activation spreading. Activa-
tion can be spread from one word or word form to a related one in the
mental lexicon, thus raising the activation levels of related words. There-
fore, the response latencies of words of the same family in lexical decision
tasks will be aVected by their forming part of that family.
Recently, it has been discovered that response latencies for simplex words
are also aVected by the family size of these words, that is, the number of
morphologically related word types. The larger the family size, the faster
lexical decisions on simplex words will be made. In the case of calculate, the
family size is eight, since there are eight morphologically related word types.
This eVect on response latencies is called the family size eVect (Schreuder
and Baayen 1997).
It takes a number of years to build up your mental lexicon, and during
your whole life you will continue adding and losing words. It does not
suYce just to memorize the simplex words of your native language, and
either decompose (in case of perception) or construct (in case of produc-
tion) complex words on the spot. First, complex words have to be memor-
ized if they have an unpredictable property, for instance an idiosyncratic
meaning aspect. Second, even though a complex word is completely
regular, it has to be memorized if it is the conventional name for a particu-
lar thing. The device we call a typewriter in English could also have
been called a writing machine. Both words have transparent semantic
interpretations, and are formed according to the English rule of nominal
compounding. We have to remember that it is the Wrst word that is the
conventional name for this device, and therefore it must be stored in lexical
memory. Moreover, we have to memorize that it cannot be used as a
synonym for typist.
There is also a psychological reason why we store regular complex
words. There are two ways in which linguistic information can be accessed,
either through computation or through storage. If we come across a
complex word that we have to recognize and interpret correctly (the task
of word recognition) there are two ways of reaching our goal. If we use
morphology and psycholinguistics 235
computation, we Wrst decompose the complex word into its constituent
morphemes, and then retrieve the meaning of these morphemes from the
entries in our mental lexicon. In the storage scenario, the complex word as
such is stored in our mental lexicon, and word recognition is performed by
matching the perceived word with its corresponding entry in our mental
lexicon. The Wrst scenario is the only possible one for complex words that
we never came across before. For words that we already know, there are
two routes: retrieval from memory or computation. Our human memory
has such a vast capacity that there is no reason to assume that our
lexical memory is redundancy-free. That is, we have the capacity to store
information that might also be computed. The advantage of using the
retrieval-from-memory route is its speed: it will take less processing time
than the computing route, in particular when the stored word has a high
frequency of occurrence, and thus a high level of activation. Hence, an
important part of psycholinguistic research is Wnding out about the proper
balance between storage and computation in morphology.
A clear proof of this point is that some of the regular plural forms of
Dutch and Italian nouns have been found to be stored. InXection is
typically associated with rules. Dictionaries quite often do not give the
regular plural forms of nouns because they can be formed by the language
user who knows the relevant inXectional rules. Yet, there are frequency
eVects for plural nouns: plural nouns with a high frequency of occurrence
are recognized faster in lexical decision tasks than plural nouns with a
low frequency of occurrence, even if the words do not diVer in their
base frequency. This diVerence in activation level shows that these high
frequency regular forms must be stored in the lexicon (Baayen, Burani, and
Schreuder 1997; Baayen, Dijkstra, and Schreuder 1997). Yet, speakers also
know the rule for plural nouns, since they can make plural forms that they
never came across before.
10.3 Acquisition of morphology
How does a child acquire the morphological system, the set of morpho-
logical rules of his or her mother tongue? Morphological rules have to be
discovered on the basis of words that are formed according to these rules.
Therefore, the Wrst stage in the acquisition of morphology is the acquisition
of individual complex words. Based on this knowledge, the child will be
236 morphology and mind
able to use morphologically complex words correctly without making use
of morphological knowledge, by retrieving them from memory. Next, (s)he
may discover certain recurring properties of, for instance, plural nouns in
English, and conclude that they are formed by adding the ending -s (with
the allomorphs [s], [z], and [1z]) to the stem. So the child is able to apply the
rule for English plural nouns to new cases, and create plural nouns that
(s)he has never heard before.
In cases where rules have exceptions, a further reWnement is in order,
and three stages have to be distinguished. These three stages of morpho-
logical acquisition have been argued for in a classic paper by Berko
(1958). In the Wrst stage, children learn a number of, for instance, past
tense forms of English verbs by rote. Hence their production of past tense
forms of both regular and irregular verbs (asked, went) is correct. In the
second stage, children acquiring English have discovered the rule for past
tense forms, but will also apply the rule to the class of irregular verbs.
Hence, they will produce the correct form asked, but the incorrect form
goed instead of the correct went, a case of overgeneralization. In the third
stage, both the rule and the set of exceptions have been acquired, and
thus children will produce asked and went. So the learning process has
the shape of a U-curve: the number of correct past tense verbs in stage I
decreases in stage II, and increases again in stage III. This learning curve
has been found for many languages. In Romance languages, with a
number of diVerent conjugations for verbs, it is the default conjugation
that is overgeneralized. In French, for instance, the conjugation of verbs
in -er is the conjugation with the highest type frequency and the default
one. It is that conjugation that verbs might incorrectly be assigned to in
stage II.
Overgeneralization in certain stages of language acquisition nicely
reveals that discovering the regularities is part and parcel of language
acquisition. Another example is the way in which Dutch children treat
the plural of loan words from English such as Xat and tram. Adult speakers
of Northern Dutch use the English plural forms Xats and trams. These are
irregular forms since normally the Dutch plural suYx -s is not used after
monosyllabic consonant-Wnal nouns. Children, however, may use the
plural forms Xatten and trammen. These are the regular forms, since
Dutch monosyllabic nouns that end in a consonant take -en as their plural
ending. Children may use these regular forms because their mental lexicon
does not yet contain the irregular plural forms Xats and trams.
morphology and psycholinguistics 237
One may wonder why the stored form went does not block the creation of
goed in the second stage, where overgeneralization applies. After all, this
form is kept in memory at an early age due to its high frequency, and it may
therefore be expected to block the creation of goed. It is probably the case
that children in that stage of acquisition consider went as a verb of its own,
and not as a (suppletive) form of to go. This is supported by the fact that
some children create the past tense form wented.
The persistence of irregular or non-default word forms in a language has
to do with their high frequency of use. Many of the stem-alternating or
irregular verbs of the Germanic languages have a high frequency of use.
Hence, these forms are entrenched very strongly in lexical memory, and will
therefore not be replaced with the competing regular suYxed past tense
forms. Frequency also plays a role in the preservation of suppletion. Words
that have suppletive forms, such as the adjective bad with the suppletive
form worse, are often words with a high frequency of use.
In languages with case marking, children will use case-marked word
forms from very early on because it is words in their surface forms (not
stems) that form the basis of acquisition. For nouns, the nominative form
is usually the default case form, used in all syntactic contexts. Children can
discover the role of case marking in syntactic contexts at a very early age.
For example, Russian children already use accusative nouns after transitive
verbs before the age of 2 (Clark and Berman 2004).
In the domain of word-formation children discover the building
principles for complex words quite soon. We know this because they are
able to coin new words themselves at a very early age. Children coin words
for concepts for which there are already established words. For adults,
established words have priority above new coinings, in accordance with the
principle of conventionality that gives priority to established words, and
thus blocks the creation of new words that are synonymous to existing ones.
Children are less hampered in their word-formation creativity by this
principle because their mental lexicon does not yet contain that many
words, and still has many lexical gaps. For instance, my daughter Suzanne
created the Dutch compound oorlogsman ‘‘war man’’ with the meaning
‘‘soldier’’ instead of using the established word soldaat ‘‘soldier’’. An
English example is the use of the compound sky car instead of the
established compound aeroplane. This behaviour is thus parallel to the case
of overgeneralization with the past tense form goed. These observations
show that children do not just memorize the complex words they are
238 morphology and mind
exposed to, but are able to discover the structural principles behind those
complex words. The development of this ability in children is also mani-
fested in the creation of new compounds for complex concepts without
corresponding established words in their native language, such as lion book
‘‘book about lions’’, baby-bottle ‘‘bottle the child had used as a baby’’, and
hole-sack ‘‘sack with holes in it’’ (Clark 1993: 117).
Compounding is acquired relatively early because it complies with two
principles, those of transparency and simplicity. The meaning of com-
pounds can be related very easily to those of its constituent words, and
hence their meaning is transparent. Moreover, the form of the constituent
elements is not really changed when they are part of compounds, and thus
conforms to the requirement of simplicity (Clark 1993). This stands in
contrast to word pairs like magic–magician where the base word magic,
with initial stress, has a diVerent phonological shape when it is part of
magician: stress on the second syllable instead of the Wrst, and a diVerent
root-Wnal consonant. It is therefore harder to discover the morphological
structure of magician. The principles of transparency and simplicity are
also obeyed in conversion. Consider the following coinages by children
of 2–3 years old: (Clark 1993: 117):
(1) to Xag ‘‘to wave with a Xag’’
to Wre ‘‘to light (a candle)’’
to bell ‘‘to ring’’
to gun ‘‘to shoot’’
to dust ‘‘to get dust on’’
The meaning of these verbs can be easily determined on the basis of the
meaning of the base noun. They denote activities in which the base noun plays
a role, and which can be further identiWed on the basis of the context in which
these verbs are used. Hence, their meanings are transparent. In conversion,
the forms of the words remain the same. Thus, noun–verb conversion com-
plies with the requirements of transparency and simplicity.
A third factor involved in the acquisition of morphology by children is
that of productivity. In English both compounding and conversion are very
productive. This is reXected by the fact that children acquire and use these
types of word-formation at an early age. In French, on the other hand,
compounding and conversion are not productive, and derivation is used
instead. Thus children acquiring French will use suYxation earlier and on
a larger scale than children acquiring English. In Germanic languages,
morphology and psycholinguistics 239
productive aYxes such as deverbal -er for the coinage of agent and instru-
ment nouns (in English, German, and Dutch) are acquired earlier than less
productive ones.
Two morphological processes in the same language may be both transpar-
ent, andyetdiVerinproductivity inadults.Thatis, transparencyisa necessary
condition for productivity, but not a suYcient one. For instance, the English
suYxes -ness and -th diVer in that new de-adjectival nouns in -th are almost
nevercreated.Yet,bothtypesofde-adjectivalnounsconformtotheprinciples
of transparency and simplicity. Clearly, children have to discover these
diVerences in productivity. They have to know the morphological preferences
of the language community when they are going to make new words.
Since children discover morphological processes on the basis of the words
they are exposed to, they must be able to compare and analyse words, and
assign them morphological structure if possible. This is clear from word
forms like goed, as discussed above. Moreover, children appear to analyse
words consciously, and ask questions like: Does cornXakes have corn in it?
(Clark 1993: 40). This analytic activity also manifests itself in what we
may call folk etymology: children may come up with a motivation for a
particular word that is incorrect. An example from Dutch is that a child
interpreted the name of the province of Friesland as meaning ‘‘land where it
is always freezing’’ (Dutch has a verb vries ‘‘to freeze’’ that has nothing to do
with the Wrst constituent of the compound Friesland).
10.4 Sources of evidence
How can we determine how morphological information is represented
in the mind? There are two main sources of evidence: experimental and natur-
alistic data. Psychologists use experiments, and in the realm of morphology
lexical decision tasks are the most widely used way of probing into the
mental representation of morphology. Lexical decision tasks are often used
in combination with priming, the prior presentation of another word. This
means that the subject who has to make a lexical decision Wrst receives some
other information.
An example of priming is the following: if one has to decide if calculation
is a word of English, the response latency will be reduced if, before this task
is performed, the same word calculation is presented to the eye or the ear of
the subject, a case of identity priming. This eVect suggests that the word
240 morphology and mind
calculation receives a higher level of activation by previous access to the
same word. Other ways of priming are phonological priming (the prime
word is phonologically similar to the target word), and semantic priming
(with a semantically similar word as the prime). In the case of the target
word calculation, the words calcium and computation may function as
phonological and semantic primes. If these primes reduce response laten-
cies for the target word, one can conclude that words in the mental lexicon
are connected to words that are either phonologically or semantically
similar. In morphological priming, a word that is morphologically related
to the target word is used as a prime. For instance, calculate will function as
a prime for calculation. As this example shows, it may be that the latter
kind of priming is in fact a combination of phonological and semantic
priming, and not an independent phenomenon.
Naturalistic data are the second source of evidence for theories of
morphology in the mind. These are data concerning the actual behaviour
of language users. When we observe that children coin new words or word
forms that they have not come across before, this forms naturalistic data
that may be interpreted as evidence for the children’s having acquired
morphological rules. The same applies to the language use of adults. We
can conclude that a morphological pattern has the status of productive rule if
new instantiations of that pattern are found in the actual language use of
native speakers.
Speech errors (which can also be elicited in experiments) are another
instance of naturalistic data. Consider the following slip of the tongue
(Aitchison 2004):
(2) Take the freezes out of the steaker (take the steaks out of the freezer)
In this sentence, the roots freeze and steak have been exchanged erroneously.
This speech error shows, Wrst of all, that the correct allomorph of the English
plural ending can becomputed byrule:theplural suYx forsteak is[s],whereas
that for freeze is [z], because the stem ends in /z. Second, this exchange
of roots bears on the issue of the lexical representation of morphological
structure. The word freezer is a complex word that is presumably stored as
such in the mental lexicon, given its speciWc conventional meaning (a storage
device in which things are kept frozen in order to keep them), and its
frequency.Yet,asthisspeecherrorshows,itsinternalmorphologicalstructure
is still accessible. Therefore, we conclude that complex words can be stored in
lexical memory with their morphological structure still present.
morphology and psycholinguistics 241
A similar example from Dutch is the following speech error:
(3) Met excuses voor het verbind-en van de verbrek-ing (het verbrek-en van de
verbind-ing)
‘‘With apologies for the connect-INF of the interrupt-ion’’
Crucially, in both (2) and (3) it is morphological units that are exchanged,
and not phonological units such as syllables. The word freezer, for instance,
consists of the syllables (free)s and (zer)s, but it is the sequence of sounds
freez, a morphological unit, that is exchanged. In example (3) the morpho-
logical units -en and -ing are exchanged. This exchange cannot be a matter
of syllables since the syllable division of the target words is as follows:
ver.bre.ken, ver.bin.ding. If we exchanged syllables, we would get the words
verbinken and verbreding.
A last source of naturalistic data to be mentioned here is that of language
pathology. The language behaviour of people with a language deWcit, such
as aphasia, may throw light on the mental representation of morphology.
Aphasia is a language impairment resulting from damage to the brain, in
most cases due to a cardiovascular accident. Aphasics that suVer from
agrammatism (the inability to use rules), usually referred to as Broca
aphasics, may not be able to produce correct plural forms of nouns, except
for nouns with a high frequency plural form such as the word eyes (Aitch-
ison 2004). This is evidence for the position that high-frequency plural
nouns are retrieved from lexical memory, whereas low-frequency plural
forms are computed on the spot, and may not be stored. In an investigation
of three German aphasic patients with agrammatism it was found that their
syntactic abilities were severely impaired, whereas their ability to use inXec-
tional morphology was still intact (de Bleser and Bayer 1988). This fact can
be interpreted as evidence for the position that syntactic rules belong to a
diVerent module of the grammar than the rules of inXectional morphology.
10.5 Models of morphological knowledge
The observed ability of native speakers to coin new words or word forms
is the basic argument for assuming that morphological knowledge encom-
passes more than storage of the complex words that language users are
exposed to. There must be mechanisms in the mind that enable us to extend
the set of complex words in a language. For languages with a rich system
242 morphology and mind
of inXectional morphology such as Turkish, where each word may have
hundreds or thousands of forms, it would even be quite absurd to assume
that all these forms are memorized as such. The memory load for such
languages can be reduced considerably by making use of rules. A possible
model is that language users acquire morphological rules by constructing
abstract rules or templates on the basis of their lexical knowledge. How-
ever, there are also morphological patterns that are not productive, but can
still be called patterns. The stock example is the set of English past tense
verb forms. Regular past tense forms are created by suYxing -ed to the
stem. On the other hand there are a number of stem-changing verbs where
the past tense form and the past participle are marked by having a diVerent
vowel than the present tense form. For instance, we have an -ing/k -ang/k
-ung/k pattern for verbs such as the following:
(4) ring, sing, spring, drink, shrink, sink, stink
The class of verbs with this kind of vowel alternation will normally not be
extended. Yet, it is clear that native speakers of English are able to recog-
nize the abstract pattern involved. It has been observed that some speakers
tend to also inXect the verb to bring according to this pattern, resulting in
the forms brang and brung. If people are asked to make the past tense forms
of non-existing verbs with a similar phonological make-up as the words in
(4), such as spling, they tend to come up with either splang or splung.
Moreover, verbs that were once regular have changed into irregular ones,
such as the English verb to dive (with the past tense form dove instead of
dived in American English).
These facts have led a number of linguists to defend a dual system model
of morphological knowledge (cf. Pinker 1999). The past tense and partici-
pial forms of regular English verbs are not stored in lexical memory,
but always created by rule. The irregular forms, on the other hand, are
stored in memory. These stored irregular forms are linked to each other in
an associative way, and thus the language user will be able to discover
similarity patterns such as -ing/k -ang/k -ung/k for the set of verbs in (4).
This explains why the pattern may be extended incidentally to similar verbs
such as to bring.
The dual system theory has also been defended based on a type of
evidence that has not been mentioned yet: neurological evidence. Jaeger
et al. (1996) have argued that regular and irregular verbs in English are
processed by diVerent neural systems. The processing location can be
morphology and psycholinguistics 243
determined by PET-scans. PET stands for Positron Emission Tomography.
The assumption underlying this technique is that changes in brain activity
during the performance of a task are associated with changes in blood Xow
in the diVerent regions of the brain. Blood Xow can be made visible by
injecting a participant’s veins with a radioactive Xuid. Thus, the blood Xow
can be traced through diVerences in radioactivity in the diVerent parts of
the brain: the more blood Xow, the more radioactivity. This radioactivity is
caused by the emission of positrons. Participants had to read or speak past
tense forms (regular and irregular ones). Jaeger et al. (1996) found that
regular forms are processed faster than irregular forms, and also that the
irregular past task activated signiWcantly larger areas of the brain than
the regular past task.
The dual system theory in the form presented above thus correlates the
distinction between regular and irregular morphology with the distinction
between computation and storage: regular forms are computed on the spot,
whereas irregular forms are stored. This theory predicts that frequency
eVects (diVerences in frequency correlating with diVerences in processing
speed) will only be found for irregular forms, and not for regular forms,
although the latter have a high frequency of use. Some linguists have
claimed this prediction to be correct (for instance, Clahsen 1999 for
German verb forms).
A problem for this theory is that in a number of studies frequency eVects
have been found for regular inXectional forms as well. These Wndings do not
necessarily contradict the idea of an opposition between rules versus
associative patterns, but imply that a correct model has to allow for the
storage of regular inXectional forms of relatively high frequency besides
storage of irregular forms. Remember that there is no logical contradiction
between a process being regular and productive, and the storage of some of
its outputs: our mental lexicon is not redundancy-free. Even if one accepts
the storage of regular forms, the dual route theory might be maintained.
The crucial property of regular forms is not that they cannot be stored, but
that they can be computed if necessary, unlike the irregular forms.
The dual system theory raises the question of how to distinguish between
rules and associative patterns. The crucial diVerence between these two
notions is that rules make use of variables, whereas associative patterns
refer to speciWc properties of the words involved, for instance their speciWc
phonological make-up. That is, unlike associative patterns, rules also apply
to types of input that the language user has not been exposed to.
244 morphology and mind
This reasoning can be illustrated by a study of Modern Hebrew by Berent
et al. (2002). As we saw in Chapter 2, Hebrew makes use of abstract
consonantal patterns to deWne the triconsonantal roots that form the
basis of Hebrew morphology. A general constraint on these triconsonantal
roots is that the Wrst two cannot be identical, but the last two can. For
instance, roots with the pattern smm are well formed, unlike roots of the
form ssm. If you do not believe in abstract rules, you may claim that this
generalization is of a statistical nature, a strong tendency that native
speakers may discover on the basis of frequent exposure to words with
such roots. Speakers of Hebrew were asked to evaluate the acceptability of
non-existing roots in which either the Wrst two or the last two are identical.
The crucial Wnding of Berent et al. (2002) is that native speakers only accept
roots of the second type (the last two consonants identical), even with
foreign consonants such as the English phoneme /y/, but systematically
reject roots where the Wrst two consonants are identical. In other words,
speakers are able to make systematic judgements although they have never
been exposed before to consonantal roots with this foreign phoneme.
Berent et al. (2002) therefore argue that this constraint on identical con-
sonants is not a statistical generalization about the set of existing roots, but
a real abstract constraint, a constraint with a variable for ‘‘consonant’’.
The dual system approach to morphological knowledge stands in op-
position to a class of theories with the common denominator that they are
single system theories. These theories might be called rule-less theories
because they do not make a rigid distinction between rules on the one
hand, and (lexical) representations on the other. The most inXuential single
system theory is the connectionist approach, applied to the domain of
English past tense forms in a famous study by Rumelhart and McClelland
(1986). This approach uses the model of the neural network to represent
English speakers’ knowledge of past tense forms. Neural networks model
how the brain encodes information. Information is encoded by means of
connections of varying strength between neurons. Such models may also be
used to model linguistic knowledge, although there is no logical necessity
that the architecture of knowledge systems mirrors the way in which
that knowledge is neurologically encoded directly. The basic idea of the
connectionist approach is that morphological knowledge is conceived of as
a pattern associator memory, a set of associations between pieces of
linguistic information. The strength of these associations varies with the
number of times that one has been exposed to the relevant information. In
morphology and psycholinguistics 245
the connectionist modelling of English past tense formation, the memory
contains present tense and past tense forms of words, or, more precisely,
their diVerent phonological components (these tense forms are not repre-
sented as units themselves). These components are associated to each other.
For instance, the phonological components of the input walk are associated
to that of the output walked. This set of associations has a morphological
label, for instance [past tense]. The set of associations between the phono-
logical features of the sounds in the sequence alk and those in the sequence
alked under the label [past tense] will also hold for the pair talk–talked.
Similarly, there will be a network of associations of considerable strength
between the phonological constituents of ing and ang that accounts for the
past tense forms of to sing and the other verbs listed in (4).
A small part of such a pattern of associations is represented in Figure
10.1. Each line is an association line between pieces of information. Each
input unit and each output units consists of a linear sequence of three pieces
of information. A piece of information is either a phonological feature or a
bracket. The left and right brackets [ ] indicate the beginning and the end of
a word. Each input unit thus speciWes a subsequence of three segments
(including the word boundaries) of words. For instance, the present tense
verb swim corresponds to the input unit ‘high nasal]’ since it ends in a
sequence of a [high] vowel and a [nasal] consonant followed by a right
bracket. Therefore, association line 1 applies to swim–swam. Indeed, swam
ends in a [back] vowel followed by a [nasal] consonant and a right bracket.
Association line 2 holds for the pair ban–banned. Association line 3 holds
for words with a word-initial cluster of two consonants, and hence relates
the word pairs swim–swam, sleep–slept, and bleep–bleeped. Association line
4 applies to sleep–slept, and also to bleep–bleeped: the stem forms of these
words end in a [high] vowel plus a stop consonant, and the past tense forms
Fig. 10.1 Some association patterns for English past tense forms (after
Pinker 1999: 105)
246 morphology and mind
end in two stops. The second output unit, ‘nasal stop ]’ is also associated
with the Wrst input unit (association line 5) because there are pairs such as
trim–trimmed: the past tense form trimmed ends in a nasal stop sequence.
The association patterns and their strengths are developed by training
the model: it will be oVered a corpus of present and past tense forms.
The more frequent a particular association of pieces of information is,
the stronger that association will become. Once the model has been exposed
to a suYciently large number of data, it will also predict the past tense
forms of verbs that did not belong to its ‘‘training space’’. Most verbs
exhibit the pattern xxþed for present and past tense. Yet, the high token
frequency of the past tense forms of irregular verbs results in great strength
of the associations between the phonological features sequences of ing/k
and ang/k in the domain [past tense] for the irregular English verbs. If the
input sing is fed into the network, the input units that correspond with parts
of the phonetic string of sing will be switched on. These input units then
activate the output units with which they have strong associations. This will
have the eVect that for the verb to sing the past tense form that is computed
by the model will be sang rather than singed. The verb trim, with diVerent
initial segments, will activate a diVerent set of strong input–output
associations, and thus produce the past tense form trimmed.
A second type of rule-less approach is the model proposed by Bybee
(1988, 1995, 2001). In her model, unlike what is claimed in the connection-
ist approach, individual inXectional forms of words are listed in the lexicon.
This also applies to past tense verb forms, both regular and irregular ones.
The regularities in the formal relationship between present tense and past
tense forms are captured by abstract schemas that can be constructed on
the basis of sets of words. For instance, the lexical representation of the
past tense forms played, spilled, spoiled, banned, and rammed will be linked
as in Figure 10.2. The correlation between the phonological and semantic
Fig. 10.2 Schema for English past tense forms (Bybee 2001: 23)
morphology and psycholinguistics 247
properties of these forms results in a morphological schema in which -ed
is connected to [past]. The basic point is that one may represent the relevant
generalization without necessarily extracting it as an abstract rule or
template independent from the individual words involved.
A third single system approach without rules is the analogy-based model.
To be sure, analogy has been recognized as a source of new complex forms
in all kinds of morphological models. In the case of analogy, a new word
is formed on the basis of a related existing word, without an abstract
morphological template being involved. For instance, the coinage of the
English word seascape is based on the word landscape (a borrowing from
Dutch), according to the following pattern of analogy:
(5) land : sea ¼ landscape : seascape
A similar example is the coinage of the word zweisam ‘‘being with some-
body else’’ in analogy to einsam ‘‘being alone’’ by the German philosopher
Martin Buber. In these cases it is an individual complex word that forms
the basis for the new word, and this kind of analogical word-formation has
an incidental character.
In recent theorizing, analogical models have been extended to larger sets
of data. These exemplar-based models presuppose that individual complex
words are stored in the lexicon. These words are exemplars of a particular
category, for instance of the noun–noun-compound category. There are no
abstract patterns or rules that deWne that category. New words are coined
in analogy to the set of stored words. An example of this kind of modelling
concerns the selection of a linking element in Dutch nominal compounds.
Many of these compounds have s or en as a linking element between the
two parts of the compounds; other compounds have no linking element at
all (represented here as ø). It is hard to come up with a rule that predicts
with absolute certainty which linking element should be chosen for a
new compound, and there is sometimes variation among native speakers.
Yet, there are tendencies that can be related to the distribution of linking
elements in existing Dutch compounds. The preferences of native speakers
for a particular linking element in a new compound can be predicted on the
basis of its degrees of similarity to existing compounds. This implies that
there is no rule that predicts the insertion of a linking element on the basis
of properties of the two constituents. Instead, a paradigmatic approach is
chosen in which the relation to other existing compounds plays a crucial
role, and preferences can be predicted.
248 morphology and mind
Consider the following data concerning linking elements in Dutch
NN-compounds:
(6) schaap-s-kooi ‘‘sheepfold’’
schaap-s-vlees ‘‘mutton’’
schaap-ø-herder ‘‘shepherd’’
schap-en-poot ‘‘sheep’s leg’’
schap-en-vacht ‘‘sheep’s Xeece’’
schap-en-bout ‘‘leg of mutton’’
koei-en-oog ‘‘cow’s eye’’
paard-en-oog ‘‘horse’s eye’’
pauw-en-oog ‘‘peacock’s eye’’
varken-s-oog ‘‘pig’s eye’’
(the variation schaap/schap is only a matter of orthography). Given these
data, we might wonder which is the appropriate linking element for the
compound schaap-?-oog ‘‘sheep’s eye’’ (the question mark indicates the pos-
ition of the linking element). It is clear that the left constituent schaap allows
for all three linking elements, but en is the most frequent one. Moreover, most
constituents oog as heads of compounds are preceded by the linking element
en. Hence, the most probable linking element is en. It appears that speakers
tend to choose that linking element that is most common among the existing
compounds with that initial constituent. For instance, the choice of the
linking element s for a new compound leven? therapie ‘‘life therapy’’ appears
to be predictable on the basis of the existing compounds with leven as their
Wrst constituent, such as leven-s-vorm ‘‘life form’’ and leven-s-probleem ‘‘life
problem’’ (Krott et al. 2001). The second constituent may play a role as well,
as is illustrated here by oog that is usually though not always preceded by en.
This survey of diVerent models of morphological knowledge, and the
debate about these models illustrates that morphological phenomena play
an important role in the debate on the nature of linguistic knowledge.
Morphology is an important window on the mental representation of
natural language and the human mind.
10.6 Morphological processing
The insight that complex words are often stored as such in the lexicon raises
the question of how they are processed. There are two ways in which a
complex word can be processed, the direct route, and the indirect route.
morphology and psycholinguistics 249
Whenperception ofcomplexwords isinvolved, thedirectroute means that we
do not Wrst parse the complex word, but go directly to its representation in the
lexicon, in order to access its meaning. The indirect route means that a
complex word is parsed into constituent morphemes, and that its meaning is
computed after we have gained access to its constituent morphemes and their
meanings.
There are data that might be interpreted as showing that language users
try to parse words into morphological sub-constituents. For instance, when
speakers of Dutch are confronted with non-words in a lexical decision task,
it takes more time to make the correct decision when that word begins with
a syllable that could have been a preWx, compared to words where this does
not apply. Consider the following three non-words:
(7) aderibag, afgeblar, afbegepakt
The Wrst word does not contain a potential preWx of Dutch, the second
word begins with two preWxes (af-, ge-), and the third word begins with
three preWxes (af-, be-, ge-). Correlating with this diVerence, the last non-
word has been found to have the longest response latency, as is expected if
language users try to strip preWxes from words that are not in their lexicon.
The existence of two routes has led to the assumption of morphological
race models. In such models, both routes will be used for word recognition,
and compete with each other. If the word is not stored in lexical memory,
the indirect route is the only one that will lead to recognition, on the basis
of parsing. If the word is stored, the direct route will be faster than the
indirect route if the stored complex word has a high frequency, that is, a
high level of activation. For a complex word with a low frequency, on the
other hand, parsing is the obvious route. Both routes are followed, and one
of them will turn out to be the fastest, depending on the level of activation
of the complex word.
The parsing of complex words is also aVected by relative frequency: the
frequency of the complex word compared to that of its base word. If the
complex word has a lower frequency than the base word, this will make
parsing of that complex word easier and more eYcient than direct retrieval.
If the inverse situation obtains, direct access to the complex word will be
the most eYcient route (Hay 2001). For instance, the English word dazzle-
ment will be parsed because its frequency is much lower than that of its base
dazzle, whereas government will be accessed as a whole because the
frequency of this word is higher than that of its verbal base govern. Note
250 morphology and mind
that the meaning of government is not completely compositional, unlike
that of dazzlement. There is also a relation to productivity: the more
complex words with a certain aYx will be parsed, the more productive
the corresponding word-formation process will be, because parsing the
aYx will increase its activation level (Hay and Baayen 2002).
The morphological race model can also be used as a model of word
production. It helps us to understand why it is irregular forms of high
frequency that are maintained in a language, whereas low-frequency irregular
forms disappear more easily. Suppose we have to make the past tense form of
to go. We can go directly to the lexicon, where the word went will be retrieved.
Because went is a high-frequency form, this route will be faster than the
indirect route where the past tense form has to be created by rule, resulting
in the incorrect goed. The race model thus accounts for the blocking eVect of
high-frequency words on synonymous words that are computed by rule.
Summary
Children acquire the morphological system of their mother tongue on the
basis of exposure to complex words. At a relatively early age, they acquire
and use the competence to create new words themselves. Word-formation
processes that obey the constraints of transparency and simplicity are
acquired Wrst. Children also coin a high number of new words because
their creativity is not yet hampered by the conventional lexicon.
There are a number of ways in which we can Wnd out how morphological
knowledge is represented in the mind and used in language processing: by
studying naturalistic data (corpora of language use, speech errors, eVects of
language impairment, etc.) and experimental data (lexical decision tasks,
production tasks, etc.). Morphology is a battleWeld for competing models
of linguistic knowledge, and for discussion on the nature of linguistic rules.
The frequency of words in actual language use correlates with their
activation level in the mental lexicon. Statistical and probabilistic data
are therefore relevant for adequate models of morphological knowledge.
Questions
1. The list of differences between a dictionary and the mental lexicon in
section 10.1 is not exhaustive. What other differences can you mention?
morphology and psycholinguistics 251
2. The following compounds coined by children have been observed by Elbers
(1988): car-milk ‘‘gasoline’’, moon-nuts ‘‘cashew nuts’’. Why would children
coin these words instead of using the existing words for these concepts?
3. Consider the data in the table concerning the frequency of words with the
prefix un- and their bases in the CELEX database.
Which of these un-words do you expect to be processed via the direct
route? To what extent does this correlate with your intuitions about the
semantic transparency of these words?
4. The following cases of noun–verb conversion occurred in the speech of my
children (native speakers of Dutch) at the age of 2 to 4 (none of these verbs
are used by adult speakers):
noun verb
au ‘‘ouch’’ au ‘‘to hurt’’
telefoon ‘‘telephone’’ telefoon ‘‘to telephone’’
drop ‘‘liquorice’’ drop ‘‘to eat liquorice’’
viltstift ‘‘felt pen’’ viltstift ‘‘to use a felt pen’’
How does this kind of word-formation relate to the principles of transpar-
ency, simplicity, and conventionality that Clark (1993) identifies as playing a
role in morphological acquisition?
5. Although to ride is a verb with the irregular past tense from rode, the past
tense of to joyride is joyrided. Try to explain this. How can this observation be
used to defend a rule-based approach to morphology?
6. Consider the following speech errors
The speaker received a standing ovulation (ovation)
His initiatives were engraved on the cigarette case (initials)
A visual circle (vicious)
What conclusion can be drawn from these speech errors about how words
are related in the mental lexicon?
7. Consider the data in the table concerning reaction times (in milliseconds)
for a number of Italian nouns. Sometimes the singular form has the shortest
reaction time, in other cases the plural form. How can this be explained?
Frequency Base frequency
uncanny 89 20
unleash 65 16
unscrew 44 187
unaffected 54 169
unobtrusive 42 17
uncouth 34 2
unkind 72 390
Source: Hay 2001: 1047.
252 morphology and mind
8. One form of speech errors is blending two words. The following blends
can be found in Fromkin (1973) and are cited as evidence for production
models in Levelt (1989):
The competition is a little stougher [stiffer/tougher]
Irvie is quite clear [close/near]
At the end of today’s lection [lecture/lesson]
What kind of relationship between words in the mental lexicon must be
the basis for this kind of speech error?
9. Consider the following speech error in which two verbs have been
exchanged: . . . that I’d hear one if I knew it instead of the correct . . . that
I’d know one if I heard it. In Janssen et al. (2002) this observation is used
to argue that in language production first lexemes (such as KNOW
and HEAR) in their abstract form are selected before selection of the
actual morphological forms takes place. Why does this speech error
support the assumption of these two stages in language production?
10. In the course of the history of Dutch, a number of Dutch verbs with a stem
vowel ij [Ei] changed from regular verbs, with a suffixed past tense form, to
ablauting verbs, with a past tense vowel ee [e:]. This applies to, for
instance, the Dutch verbs prijzen ‘‘to praise’’ and lijken ‘‘to resemble’’,
with the past tense stems prees and leek respectively (see Table 6.6 for a
survey of Dutch ablauting verbs). Note that the English counterparts of
these verbs are regular. Other examples of such verbs that changed
from weak to strong are schrijven ‘‘to write’’, belijden ‘‘to confess’’,
and zwijgen ‘‘to keep silent’’. The class of ij-ee verbs comprises about a
quarter of all ablauting verbs of Dutch. What does this change tell us about
the psychological reality of the vowel alternation patterns of irregular
verbs?
Singular form Plural form Gloss
albero 583 alberi 542 tree
capello 578 capelli 522 hair
dente 527 denti 503 tooth
piede 528 piedi 494 foot
soldato 548 soldati 549 soldier
naso 523 nasi 556 nose
piazza 534 piazze 522 square
sorella 569 sorelle 534 sister
Source: Baayen, Burani, and Schreuder 1997: 30.
morphology and psycholinguistics 253
Further reading
A textbook completely devoted to the mental lexicon is Aitchison (1987). Clark
(1993) presents an analysis and survey of studies on the acquisition of morph-
ology, in particular word-formation. The importance of speech errors as lin-
guistic evidence is shown in Fromkin (1973) and Cutler (1982).
An extensive discussion on the issue of storage versus computation in rela-
tion to regular and irregular morphology can be found in Pinker (1999) for
English, and in Clahsen (1999) for German. Both defend a rule-based approach
to morphology (with association patterns for irregular verbs only), and Pinker
argues in detail against the connectionist model. The ‘variable’ criterion
for calling something a rule can be found in Marcus (2001), and in Berent
et al. (2002). Clahsen (1999) is followed by a number of invited critical
comments.
Evidence for the lexical storage of inflected forms is given in Baayen, Burani,
and Schreuder (1997) and in Baayen et al. (2002). A broader discussion of
the issue of storage and computation for different domains of grammar can
be found in Nooteboom et al. (2002). Gürel (1999) argues that even for a
language with rich agglutinative morphology such as Turkish, frequent words
are accessed as whole words rather than through decomposition.
Morphological race models are proposed in Frauenfelder and Schreuder
(1992), Baayen (1993), and Schreuder and Baayen (1997). The role of morph-
ology in language production is discussed in Levelt (1989); Janssen et al.
(2002) deals with inflectional forms in language production.
A survey of the role of probabilistic data in morphology is presented in
Baayen (2003).
254 morphology and mind
11
Morphology and language
change
11.1 The historical perspective
Speakers are able to use their native language without any knowledge of
its history. Therefore, the historical perspective on language seems to
be superXuous when we want to understand how language works. In this
chapter it will be shown that this is not true: language change is a relevant
empirical domain for linguists who want to develop an adequate account of
language systems and their use.
First, we may want to know how the morphology of a language got the
properties that it has. Why do Germanic languages obey the Right-hand
Head Rule? And why did Dutch develop a system of linking elements
between the constituents of compounds? Such questions can only be
answered by looking at the history of languages.
A second reason for studying language change is that it provides another
window on the human mind. Patterns of language change tell us
how language users interpret the language data on the basis of which
11.1 The historical perspective 255
11.2 The nature of language
change 256
11.3 Historical sources of
morphology 261
11.4 Changes in morphological
rules 268
11.5 Changes in word
structure 272
Summary 275
Questions 276
Further reading 277
they develop their linguistic competence. Thus, they provide evidence
about what goes on in the minds of language users, in addition to what
psycholinguistic data can tell us.
In order to understand morphological change, it is useful to Wrst give
some attention to the nature of language change (section 11.2). We are then
ready to understand how morphological systems could develop (section
11.3) and how these systems and the complex words they create can change
(sections 11.4 and 11.5).
11.2 The nature of language change
The opening lines of GeoVrey Chaucer’s famous Canterbury Tales clearly
show that English has changed in the course of time:
(1) Whan that Aprill with his shoures soote
‘‘When that April with his showers sweet’’
The droghte of March hath perced to the roote
‘‘The drought of March has pierced to the root’’
And bathed every veyne in swich licour
‘‘And bathed every vein in such moisture’’
Of which vertu engendred is the Xour;
‘‘Of which virtue engendered is the Xower’’
Middle English as used in these lines is diVerent from Modern English, and
we might need some guidance in decoding these lines. If we assume that it is
still the same language, English, we have to conclude that languages can
change. But why do they?
The statement that languages change is in fact metaphorical in nature. It
presupposes that we conceive of a language as an organism that grows,
changes, and sometimes dies. This way of speaking suggests that languages
have a mode of existence outside their users. This is true to a certain extent, as
we will see below, but a language primarily exists in the minds of its speakers.
That is why we say that a language has died when its last speaker has died,
as has, alas, happened often in recent years. So it is speakers that change
their language while using it in language perception and production.
Whydolanguageuserschangetheirlanguage?Infact,‘change’isnotalways
the appropriate word for what is going on. When a language acquires new
words through the activities of its users, it would be better to speak of con-
256 morphology and mind
struction or innovation of language. What does change when new words or
newmeaningsofwordsgetestablishedisthelexicalnormofthatlanguage,not
the system behind it. The main reason for changing the lexical norm of a
language is that language users need expressions for new concepts, or new
things. One way of meeting this need is extending the meaning of existing
words. For instance, the word mouse acquired a new meaning as a navigation
device for computers. Alternatively, we may coin new denoting expressions,
either phrases or words. The phrase prosodic word has been introduced into
Englishto expressa speciWc linguisticnotion.Theword anti-virus-programisa
complex word that Wlls a lexical gap in the domain of computer technology.
Lexical gaps can also be Wlled through borrowings. Dutch, for example, has
borrowed many words from English recently. The word printer is a good
example: even though Dutch has the word drukker for ‘‘printer’’ (interpreted
asahumanagent),itusestheEnglishwordprinterforaprintingdevice.Onthe
other hand, German uses Drucker for both the human agent and the printing
device. Speakers of languages may diVerintheir attitudestowards borrowing.
If they try to avoid it, they are called purists.
The change of the lexical norm consists of two steps. The Wrst step is that
an individual language user coins a new lexical unit (a word or a phrase),
borrows one from another language, or gives an existing word a new inter-
pretation. The following step is that this innovation is accepted by other
language users, and is also used by them. This is also why dictionary makers
will not simply list in their dictionary each new word they come across in a
corpus of language use. It must have been used by diVerent users on diVerent
occasions before it is evidence for a change of the supra-individual lexical
norm. So we see that the kind of language change we may call lexical
innovation arises because language users need to express new concepts.
Maybe we should not call it language change, but language construction.
Although language is primarily located in each individual language user,
‘norm’as introducedhereimplies thatitalso has aderivative form ofexistence
at the supra-individual level, just like many other non-material objects such as
norms,knowledge,religions,andphilosophicalideas.Normsarethingswecan
share with other people. Sharing our language with other people is part and
parcel of being a language user. This paradox of language being simultan-
eously individual and social in nature has been stressed by Ferdinand de
Saussure (Saussure 1916), and is therefore called the Saussurean paradox.
The study of language change therefore has a psychological and a social
dimension. It will arise in the mind of one or more individual language
morphology and language change 257
users, but must Wnd its way in the language community before the new use
of a language form is actuated as a language change.
A second source of linguistic innovation besides changing the lexical
norm is reanalysis. Language users cannot grasp the system behind a
language in a direct fashion. The only evidence they have are outputs of
the system, concrete cases of language use. This opens up the possibility that
a language user reconstructs the system underlying the perceived outputs in
a slightly diVerent way from previous users. Some linguists have therefore
hypothesized that imperfect learning by children is the driving force behind
language change. Children have to reconstruct the rule system on the basis
of what they hear, and might thus come up with a slightly diVerent system
from the system of adult speakers that underlies these outputs. A morpho-
logical example is the potential regularization of past tense formation of the
irregular verbs of English discussed in Chapter 10. Children might start
using goed and bringed instead of went and brought. This kind of change is
impeded by the eVect of conventionality: children appear to adjust them-
selves quite readily to the adult system with its exceptions. Moreover, adult
speakers may also change their language through reanalysis, since they are
continuously interpreting the outputs that they perceive. In sum, language
users may be involved in language change at diVerent stages of their lives.
The types of change discussed so far are examples of internal change,
caused by the internal dynamics of language usage and by its transfer to the
next generation of language users. Language change may also be eVected
by external causes, in particular language contact. This is called external
change. Language contact may lead to borrowing of words from other
languages. Most Germanic languages borrowed many words from French,
for some centuries the dominant European language in the realm of cul-
ture, science, and diplomacy. English was inXuenced much earlier and more
strongly by French due to the Norman conquest of 1066.
Borrowing from French had its impact on the morphology of Germanic
languages. In Dutch, for instance, quite a number of aYxes of French
origin are used productively in combination with non-native stems, and
sometimes even with native stems (as in Xauw-iteit ‘‘silly joke’’ derived from
the native adjective Xauw ‘‘silly’’). These non-native aYxes also occur in
complex words that have no counterpart in French, a clear indication that
they have become aYxes of the borrowing language. That is, these aYxes
might have entered the language as parts of borrowed words, but are
recognized as morphological building blocks of these words. An example
258 morphology and mind
of this kind of borrowing in English is the de-adjectival suYx -ity, like
Dutch -iteit the counterpart of French -ité. Once English had a number of
adapted loan words of the type X-ity, this pattern could be extended to
other adjectives, resulting in new nouns of this type.
Borrowing of inXectional forms may also take place. English has Greek
and Latin plurals, such as criteria, schemata, musea, and data. These learned
plurals came to be replaced with regular plurals such as schemas and museums
(musea is no longer used in English). They are not always felt as plural
forms—witness the increasing tendency to use data as a subject NP with a
singular verbal form (The data is reliable, Much data was lost). In Dutch, with
the same borrowed plural form musea, one often comes across the plural form
musea-s, which indicates that the stored form musea is no longer felt as an
unambiguous plural form. Similarly, one often hears data-s as the plural of
datum ‘‘date’’ instead of data or datums.
Lack or rarity of morphology is considered by some linguists to be
typical for pidgin and creole languages. Pidgin languages arise when, in a
situation of language contact, there is no common language. This situation
obtained, for instance, on plantations in the Americas with African slaves:
the slaves did not speak English or Spanish, while the plantation owners
did not speak the languages of the slaves. Creole languages are pidgin
languages that have come to be used as a Wrst language by a new generation
of language users. From recent research it has become clear, however,
that both pidgins and creoles do have morphology, both inXection and
word-formation (derivation, compounding, reduplication). For instance,
Haitian Creole borrowed many complex words from French, which
resulted in this language having productive derivational morphology
(Lefebvre 2003).
Language contact as a source of loss of inXectional morphology can be
observed in the development of Afrikaans. In South Africa, Dutch came
into contact with Portuguese, Malay, and local African languages, and thus
Afrikaans exhibits the language contact eVects that are typical for pidgi-
nization and creolization. Compared to its mother language Dutch,
Afrikaans has an extremely simple kind of inXectional morphology, with
a present tense form that is identical to the stem, without person and
number marking, and a periphrastic form for the non-present tense.
Likewise, the strong inXectional erosion of English during an earlier
episode in history may also be the eVect of language contact, namely that
between the original population of England and the Viking invaders.
morphology and language change 259
A pervasive type of morphological change is the erosion of inXectional
systems in the Germanic and Romance languages, referred to as deXection.
English has the poorest inXectional system of all. Most Germanic languages
have lost their case system (German and Icelandic are exceptions), and the
three-gender system, again preserved in German and Icelandic, has been
reduced to two genders in Dutch and most North Germanic languages,
whereas English has lost gender in full NPs completely. This kind of
long-term change over a number of centuries has been dubbed drift by the
American linguist Sapir.
It is no coincidence that case and gender are the morphological cate-
gories that are subject to erosion. For instance, the distinction between
nominative and accusative case is a matter of contextual inXection,
required by syntactic context. This stands in opposition to inherent inXec-
tion such as number inXection for nouns, which expresses a semantic
distinction. The role of contextual inXection can be taken over by other
means of expression such as the use of prepositions or postpositions and
word order. Similarly, gender is a category that manifests itself in agreement
patterns, and thus plays a role in contextual inXection only. Thus,
although we cannot predict when and how languages change, it is possible
to identify linguistic factors that constrain and shape language change, such
as the distinction between inherent and contextual inXection.
Whatever the cause of language change, it is remarkable that language
users seem to cooperate in achieving a particular result such as the loss of a
language’s case system. In order to understand this, we might invoke the
invisible hand theory made famous by Adam Smith in his The Wealth of
Nations to explain how the economic market seems to behave as a rational
person, as if led by an invisible hand. Each individual action is a contribu-
tion to a result that has not been planned by individuals. If there are too
many cars on the road you have to use your brake from time to time, and all
drivers will do so. Quite soon, you will thus get stuck in a traYc jam,
although none of the individual drivers had the aim of creating it. In the
same way, the acts of individual language users may have unforeseen eVects.
Language change isobviouslynot restrictedto the morphologicalsystem of
languages. Thequotation above from Chaucer, when compared to its modern
English glosses, also shows phonological, syntactic, and semantic changes.
Phonological change is exempliWed by the loss of the Wnal vowel of roote that
hasbecomerootinModernEnglish.Thewordordernoun–adjectiveinshoures
soote corresponds with theModern English wordorder adjective–noun: sweet
260 morphology and mind
showers. An example of semantic change is that the present-day meaning of
liquor is no longer ‘‘liquid’’, but denotes alcoholic liquids only. For obvious
reasons, this chapter will focus on morphological change.
11.3 Historical sources of morphology
Morphological systems not only erode, they may also arise. An example is
the emergence of nominal compounding in Germanic languages that arose
from noun phrases of the type:
(2) [N-gen N]NP
In this type of noun phrase, the pre-nominal noun with genitive case
functions as a modiWer of the head noun. Such noun phrases were reinter-
preted as compound nouns. This emergence of Germanic compound struc-
ture is still reXected by the fact that sometimes an old case ending appears
at the end of the Wrst constituent. These case endings might be reanalysed as
allomorphic extensions of the Wrst constituent, or as linking elements. This
also applies to case endings such as the genitive case endings -s and -en of
Middle Dutch. Hence, we see transitions of the following kind:
(3) (des) her-en huis > her-en-huis
(the-gen) lord-gen house.nom lord-linking element-house ‘‘mansion’’
(des) konink-s krone > koning-s-kroon
(the-gen) king-gen crown.nom king-linking element-crown
‘‘royal crown’’
These changes thus led to the emergence of a system of compounding with
internal linking elements.
Univerbation, the reinterpretation of phrases as words, does not neces-
sarily lead to language change. Consider the following examples of uni-
verbation:
(4) Old High German hiu tagu ‘‘this day-instr’’ > Modern High German heute
‘‘today’’
Latin ad ipsum ‘‘to itself-acc’’ > Italian adesso ‘‘now’’
French peut être ‘‘can be’’ > French peut-être ‘‘perhaps’’
These changes imply the addition of lexemes to the lexicon, but do
not aVect the morphological system. That also applies to the following
conjunctions of Dutch:
morphology and language change 261
(5) door-dat ‘‘due to’’, om-dat ‘‘because’’, op-dat ‘‘in order to’’
Such words arose from univerbation of a preposition with the Wrst word of
a clausal complement, the complementizer dat ‘‘that’’:
(6) Rebecca viel [[om]P [dat ze niets zag]S]PP
‘‘Rebecca fell for [that she nothing saw]S’’ reanalysed as:
Rebecca viel [omdat ze niets zag]S
Rebecca fell [because she nothing saw]S
‘‘Rebecca fell because she saw nothing’’
Although this kind of univerbation did not lead to new morphological
rules, there is an important lesson that we can draw from these historical
facts: when a word is multimorphemic, this does not necessarily imply that
it has been created by a morphological process. So the Dutch complemen-
tizers in (5) are not the products of compounding (combining prepositions
with complementizers), and we can thus maintain the regularity that word-
formation processes create words of lexical categories, that is, content
words only.
Univerbation did lead to a morphological rule in the case of Latin phrases
such as clara mente ‘‘with a clear mind, abl’’. After univerbation and semantic
reinterpretation of this phrase, words such as claramente ‘‘in a clear manner’’
served as models for new de-adjectival words in -mente. Thus, -mente became
a productive suYx in Romance languages. This example illustrates that
two mechanisms are involved in morphological change of this type: reanalysis
and analogy. The Wrst step is reanalysis: the existing word combination is
given another structural interpretation. The second step, which aVects the
morphological system, is the extension of the class of words in -mente through
analogy. The Wrst step pertains to the syntagmatic axis of language structure,
the second step to its paradigmatic axis. The compounds in (3) also show that
univerbation can lead to a morphological change, the emergence of nominal
compounding. The univerbated phrases were reinterpreted as compounds,
and new compounds were created directly on the model of the univerbated
ones, without having passed a phrasal stage.
An example of a productive preWx that derives from a syntactic con-
struction is the Frisian preWx witte- ‘‘very’’ that is a reduced form of the
word sequence wa wit hoe ‘‘who knows how’’. This word sequence forms a
clause in combination with an adjective, as in Wa wit hoe Wer ‘‘Who knows
how far’’. This preWx is used productively in modern Frisian, as in the
following words (Dyk 1988).
262 morphology and mind
(7) witte-Wer ‘‘very far’’
witte-heech ‘‘very high’’
witte-lang ‘‘very long’’
witte-djip ‘‘very deep’’
The speciWc meaning of the original word sequence underlying witte- has
changed into the more general meaning ‘‘very’’.
The emergence of this preWx illustrates that frequency plays a role in
grammaticalization, which has also been deWned as ‘the process by which a
frequently used sequence of words or morphemes become automated as a
single processing unit’ (Bybee 2003: 603). The word sequence wa wit hoe
expressing the meaning ‘‘high degree’’ is a clear example of such an auto-
mated, single processing unit. It is well known that high frequency triggers
phonological reduction: the speaker can aVord to be sloppy in the pro-
nunciation of a unit if that unit is easily retrievable for the hearer due to its
high frequency. Reduction will then lead to simpler phonological forms.
The reduced form witte [w1te] has the phonological shape of a trochee.
Recall that a trochee is a foot that consists of two syllables, of which the
Wrst carries stress. In Germanic languages, the second syllable of a trochee
prefers to have schwa as its vowel. As we saw in section 7.2, Germanic
preWxes tend to be prosodic words of their own. An optimal prosodic word
consists minimally of a trochaic foot. Thus, the phonological reduction of the
clause wa wit hoe led to a preWx witte- with an optimal prosodic form.
Morphological processes not only arise through desyntactization, as was
the case for compounding, but also through dephonologization. A famous
case is that of umlaut in German. This originally phonological rule had the
eVect of fronting back vowels of stems when followed by a /i/ or /j/ in the
next syllable. In Early Old High German the declension for the word gast
‘‘guest’’ was as in (8). In later Old High German the instrumental form
changed into gastiu, thus creating a systematic correlation between the
(8) sg pl
nom gast gesti
gen gastes gestio
dat gaste gestim
acc gast gesti
inst gestiu
Source: Wurzel 1980: 448.
morphology and language change 263
opposition singular : plural and the opposition back vowel : front vowel.
This kind of change in which formal diVerences within the same (sub)par-
adigm are removed is called paradigmatic levelling. In Middle High Ger-
man, the case ending vowel reduced to schwa, resulting in the following
paradigm (the separate instrumental case had disappeared). When the
(9) sg pl
nom gast geste
gen gastes geste
dat gaste gesten
acc gast geste
Source: Wurzel 1980: 448.
syllables with these sounds were reduced to syllables with schwa, the
conditioning environment for the vowel change (the presence of a high
vowel or glide) was destroyed. Yet, the contrast between back and front
vowels was maintained, and this vowel alternation thus obtained the
function of marking the plural, as in modern German Gast–Gäste [gAst–
gEste] (with the diaeresis still representing the umlaut in the orthography).
In this example, the plural is also marked by the ending -e, but in other
cases the plural is expressed by umlaut only, as in:
(10) Apfel–Äpfel ‘‘apple(s)’’
Kloster–Klöster ‘‘convent(s)’’
Mutter–Mütter ‘‘mother(s)’’
Vater–Väter ‘‘father(s)’’
Umlaut may co-occur with the overt plural suYxes -e and -er, and also
occurs in complex words with certain derivational suYxes such as -lich (as
in Vater ‘‘father’’–väterlich ‘‘fatherly’’).
Umlaut might be analysed in two ways. One possibility is claiming that
umlaut has completely morphologized. This means that it has become
similar to ablaut in that it expresses a morphological property (plural) by
means of vowel change. This analysis implies that the property plural is
sometimes marked doubly, through vowel alternation and suYxation with
-e, as in Gast–Gäst-e ‘‘guest sg/pl’’. The other option is interpreting umlaut
as a case of stem allomorphy triggered by particular morphological cat-
egories such as plural and words with the adjectival suYx -lich. In that
264 morphology and mind
analysis, the property plural is also marked twice in Gäste, through stem
allomorphy and suYxation.
This umlaut system has been preserved remarkably well in modern
German, whereas it has almost completely disappeared in English, with a
few alternations such as foot–feet and goose–geese being the only remnants.
It is interesting to see how the reduction of allomorphy in a paradigm
(that is, paradigmatic levelling) applies, and which allomorph is kept. In
singular–plural pairs of nouns, it is usually the stem-form of the singular
that is kept. However, if the plural form is more frequent than the
singular form, it is the plural stem-form that may win. In Frisian there is
an allomorphy pattern called breaking. An unbroken (falling) diphthong in
the singular stem alternates with a broken (rising) diphthong in the plural
stem. The pattern of paradigmatic levelling in (11) has been found in
Frisian (Tiersma 1982: 834):
(11) Conservative dialect Innovative dialect
a. hoer [huer]–hworren [hworen] hoer [huer]–hoeren [hueren] ‘‘whore’’
koal [koel]–kwallen [kwAlen] koal [koel]–koalen [koelen] ‘‘coal’’
poel [puel]–pwollen [pwolen] poel [puel]–poelen [puelen] ‘‘pool’’
b. earm [ierm]–jermen [jErmen] jerm [jErm]–jermen [jErmen] ‘‘arm’’
toarn [toern]–twarnen [twArnen] twar [twArn]–twarnen [twArnen]
‘‘thorn’’
trien [trien]–trijinnen [trjinen] trjin [trjin]–trjinnen [trjinen] ‘‘tear’’
In (11a), the singular forms are more frequent than the plural forms, hence
levelling goes into the direction of the singular form. In (11b), on the other
hand, the plurals are used more often than the singulars because they
denote entities that come in a pair (arms), or in groups (thorns, tears).
This led to levelling in the direction of the plural allomorph. The levelling
of Frisian breaking is thus a case of bidirectional levelling.
An important source of morphology is the phenomenon of grammati-
calization. This phenomenon is usually deWned as follows:
(12) ‘[G]rammaticalization is [ . . . ] that subset of linguistic changes through which a
lexical item in certain uses becomes a grammatical item, or through which
agrammaticalitembecomesmoregrammatical’(HopperandTraugott1993:2).
An example of the change from lexical to grammatical item is the develop-
ment of verbs into auxiliaries. In English the verb to have not only functions
as a main verb, with the meaning ‘‘to possess’’, but also as an auxiliary
in perfect tense forms. The verb can has lost its status as lexical verb
morphology and language change 265
completely, and functions as a modal auxiliary only. In these examples
grammaticalization does not create morphology. This does happen if a
(lexical or grammatical) morpheme becomes an aYx. Dutch has a product-
ive preWx door- exempliWed in (13):
(13) door-boor ‘‘to drill through completely’’
door-ploeg ‘‘to through plough, to plough completely’’
door-zien ‘‘to through-see, to grasp’’
This preWx arose through reinterpretation of the directional postposition
door ‘‘through’’. For instance, the rise of the verb doorboor can be pictured
as follows:
(14) [[de muur]NP [door]P]PP [boor]V > [de muur]NP [door[boor]V]V
the wall through drill
‘‘pierce the wall’’
This is another example of reanalysis: a structural interpretation is assigned
to a sequence of words that diVers from the original one. The second
ingredient is again analogy: the reanalysed pattern must be extended to
other cases in which the original structure does not play a role. This is
indeed the case here: door- has become a productive preWx in Dutch.
Grammaticalization often goes together with the semantic development
of bleaching: the meaning of the grammaticalized element becomes more
abstract. The meaning of the Frisian preWx witte- discussed above is a clear
illustration of bleaching. In the case of door-, its originally concrete spatial
or locative meaning has developed into a more abstract aspectual one.
It indicates the completeness of the action performed: the object is
completely aVected.
A classic example of the development of a suYx out of a word is the past
tense suYx in Indo-European. In many Indo-European languages it con-
tains a dental or alveolar consonant (hence it is called the dental preterite).
This dental preterite developed from the proto-Indo-European verb for do
which already had this dental consonant. In Romance languages, some of
the inXectional endings in verbal paradigms arose from grammaticalization
of the Latin verb habere ‘‘to have’’. This is the case for French future forms
that arose from a periphrastic Latin form, as illustrated in (15) (Hopper
and Traugott 1993: 10):
(15) cantare habemus > (nous) chanter-ons ‘‘we will sing’’
The ending -ons which derives from habemus combines with a stem form
which is identical to the inWnitive form chanter, the French counterpart of
266 morphology and mind
the Latin inWnitive form cantare. The choice of stem form thus reXects the
history of the future inXectional form.
A lexical morpheme can also grammaticalize when it forms part of a
complex word. The non-head constituents of compounds, which function
as modiWers, often develop into preWxes with a more general interpretation.
Examples are the Dutch lexical morphemes bloed ‘‘blood’’ and kut ‘‘cunt’’:
the Wrst has developed into a general intensifying preWx, the second into a
general preWx of negative evaluation:
(16) a. bloed-heet ‘‘lit. blood-hot, very hot’’
bloed-mooi ‘‘lit. blood-beautiful, very beautiful’’
bloed-link ‘‘lit. blood-dangerous, very dangerous’’
b. kut-wijf ‘‘lit. cunt-wife, nasty woman’’
kut-auto ‘‘lit. cunt-car, bad car’’
kut-smoes ‘‘lit. cunt-excuse, bad excuse’’
The same can happen to the heads of compounds. The Dutch suYxes
discussed in section 7.2 that were qualiWed as non-cohering derive historically
from lexical morphemes. For instance, the non-cohering suYx -baar derives
from the verb stem baar ‘‘to carry’’, and -heid (English -hood ) derives from
the early Germanic word heid ‘‘state’’. English suYxes such as -dom and -hood
as in freedom and childhood derive from nouns. That is, words containing
these morphemes used to be compounds, but their head nouns have been
reanalysed as suYxes since they do not occur any more as words on their own.
The new life of the morpheme -baar as a suYx was enhanced by another
type of reanalysis. As we have seen, aYxes may impose constraints on the
word class of their bases. Originally, the lexical morpheme baar combined
with nouns, as in German frucht-bar, Dutch vrucht-baar ‘‘fertile’’, both
originally compounds meaning ‘‘fruit-carrying’’. In some words in -baar,
the Wrst constituent could be reinterpreted as a verb, as in strijd-baar ‘‘mili-
tant’’. The base word strijd is both a noun ‘‘Wght’’ and a verb ‘‘to Wght’’.
Subsequently, -baar could be reinterpreted as a suYx that takes verbal bases,
and it is in this use that it has become productive in Dutch and German.
The distinction between aYx and lexical morpheme tends to be blurred in
the case of cliticization, because both aYxes and clitics require a host word
to combine with. In Finnish and Hungarian, some case endings arose from
cliticized postpositions. This ambiguity of cliticized morphemes also ex-
plains why in a number of Germanic languages the genitive case ending -s of
nouns in pre-nominal position could be reinterpreted as a phrasal aYx, that
morphology and language change 267
is a clitic. This latter, reverse development is called degrammaticalization
since a suYx has developed into a grammatically independent possessor
marker. This is the case for s in phrases such as the king of England’s hat.
The phenomenon of degrammaticalization has raised the question
whether grammaticalization is subject to the condition of unidirectionality.
Is there only one irreversible direction of change in grammaticalization,
from lexical to grammatical, and from grammatical to more grammatical
morphemes, or can a grammatical morpheme become less grammatical, or
even lexical as well? This depends on one’s deWnition of grammaticaliza-
tion. If unidirectionality is one of its deWning properties, changes into the
opposite direction simply require another descriptive term, for instance
degrammaticalization. The reinterpretation of the English genitive case
morpheme -s as a clitic is a restricted form of degrammaticalization. It is
a restricted case because the suYx does not end up as a full lexical word. In
Early Modern English it has also been interpreted as the weak form of the
possessive pronoun his, that is, as a full word. Thus, Shakespeare writes the
count his galleys ‘‘the count’s galleys’’ (Greg Stump, personal communica-
tion). This change is related to the fact that English lost its case system
(except for pronouns), and this made a reanalysis of the genitive suYx -s
necessary. There appears to be consensus that degrammaticalization is
restricted in nature, whereas grammaticalization is a pervasive phenom-
enon in natural languages.
11.4 Changes in morphological rules
Erosion of inXectional morphology has taken place in most Germanic and
Romance languages. This means that some inXectional rules have disap-
peared from the grammar of those languages. Dutch, for instance, has lost
its morphological cases. The case system has only survived in a number of
Wxed expressions, as illustrated by the following examples, prepositional
phrases in origin. The prepositions in these phrases govern a particular
case. Some of these frozen expressions are considered as words, others are
still spelt as phrases. The case endings are in italics:
(17) te-gelijker-tijd ‘‘at the same time, simultaneously’’
met dien verstande ‘‘with that understanding’’
in dier voege ‘‘in such a manner’’
268 morphology and mind
An interesting case of change in inXectional morphology is that of
adjectival inXection in Afrikaans. In Dutch, adjectives in attributive
position are inXected according to the following rule: ‘add the suYx -e [e]
to the adjectival stem unless the NP in which it occurs carries the features
[indeWnite], [neuter], and [singular]’. Thus we get the following contrasts
for NPs with attributive adjectives (paard ‘‘horse’’ is neuter, koe ‘‘cow’’ is
non-neuter):
(18) een groot-ø paard ‘‘a big horse’’ een grot-e koe ‘‘a big cow’’
het grot-e paard ‘‘the big horse’’ de grot-e koe ‘‘the big cow’’
(de) grot-e paarden ‘‘(the) big horses’’ (de) grot-e koeien ‘‘(the) big cows’’
(The variation groot/grot is due to spelling conventions.) The dependence
of the absence of the inXectional schwa on three diVerent features is quite a
complex system, witness the fact that many non-native speakers of Dutch
never learn to master it properly and always add -e to the prenominal
adjective. No wonder this system broke down in Afrikaans, a creolized
variant of Dutch. In the new system that developed, the adjectives are
divided into two classes: either they always carry the inXectional schwa in
attributive position, or they never do. The adjectives that do take the schwa
are morphologically complex adjectives, and simplex adjectives that exhibit
stem allomorphy. For instance, the adjective sag ‘‘soft’’ has the stem
allomorph sagt, as shown in the inXected form sagte. Hence, it will have
the form sagte in attributive position, whereas sag is used in predicative
position. What we can learn from these facts is that relics of a previous
stage of the language, ‘‘historical junk’’ in the words of Lass (1990), might
be kept, and even re-used in a diVerent way.
Afrikaans exhibits another kind of rule change, rule simpliWcation. Both
in Dutch and in Afrikaans, there are two competing plural suYxes: -s and
-en /en/. The choice between these two suYxes is governed by a prosodic
constraint: -s is selected after an unstressed syllable, -en after a stressed one.
The eVect of this selection principle is that a plural noun always ends in a
trochee. In Dutch, this prosodic principle is overruled in some types of
complex words. For instance, de-adjectival nouns in -e /e/ always select
the plural ending -en /en/ (with concomitant prevocalic schwa-deletion),
although -s would also be in line with the prosodic constraint. In Afrikaans,
this morphological factor is ignored, and the plural suYx for complex
nouns is selected in the same way as for simplex nouns. Thus -s is selected
for words ending in the suYx -e (Van Marle 1978: 147):
morphology and language change 269
(19) noun Dutch plural Afrikaans plural
blank-e ‘‘white person’’ blank-e-n blank-e-s
geleerd-e ‘‘scholar’’ geleerd-e-n geleerd-e-s
gevangen-e ‘‘prisoner’’ gevangen-e-n gevangen-e-s
In the realm of derivational morphology two types of change are prom-
inent. First, rules may change as to their productivity. Dutch has two
suYxes for deriving deverbal adjectives, -baar ‘‘-able’’ and -(e) lijk
‘‘-able’’. In Middle Dutch the suYx -elijk was still productive. However,
in the standard variety of Modern Dutch it can no longer be used to coin
new adjectives, unlike its competitor -baar. Thus, we see that aYxes can
lose their productivity. Another example of a now unproductive suYx is
the Dutch suYx -el that we Wnd in nouns such as in (20).
(20) base derived noun
drup ‘‘drop’’ drupp-el ‘‘drop’’
eik ‘‘oak’’ eik-el ‘‘acorn’’
ijs ‘‘ice’’ ijz-el ‘‘freezing rain’’
This suYx derives from an Indo-European suYx -l that indicated descent,
and hence also diminution. Why has it become unproductive? An inspec-
tion of Dutch nouns in -el will reveal that for most of them there is no base
noun. This applies for example to the following nouns:
(21) korrel ‘‘grain, granule’’, kruimel ‘‘crumble’’, kwartel ‘‘quail’’, pukkel ‘‘pimple’’,
sleutel ‘‘key’’, stempel ‘‘stamp’’, vezel ‘‘Wbre’’, wezel ‘‘weasel’’
Consequently, these nouns will not be parsed into morphological subcon-
stituents, and thus the suYx -el will have an extremely low activation level.
That is, these words have lost their morphological structure.
A second observation on these nouns is that their semantics tend to vary:
they do not belong to one clear semantic category. Consequently, most
speakers of Dutch do not consider words in -el as complex. These obser-
vations support the view that the abstract patterns we call word-formation
rules depend for their existence on the formal and semantic transparency
of the complex words over which they generalize. The existence of trans-
parent complex words is necessary for a word-formation pattern to remain
productive.
Another type of possible change in derivational rules is a change in the
category of the base words to which they apply. Very productive rules tend
to extend their domain of application to new categories. The productive
270 morphology and mind
diminutive suYx -tje of Dutch, for instance, is no longer restricted to the
domain of nouns, but also attaches to adjectives, verbs, and adverbs:
(22) strijk ‘‘to stroke’’ strijk-je ‘‘small string orchestra’’
blond ‘‘blond’’ blond-je ‘‘blond girl’’
uit ‘‘out’’ uit-je ‘‘outing’’
Category change of the inputs of a word-formation rule may occur as the
result of reinterpretation, as happened in the case of the suYx -baar, as
discussed above.
The vicissitudes of the French suYx -age also illustrate category change
(Fleischmann 1977). This suYx derives from the Greek–Latin adjectival
suYx -āticus. The neuter forms of these adjectives could be used as nouns,
as in viāticum ‘‘money for a journey’’. In addition, -age was reinterpreted as
being nominal on the basis of the elliptical use of phrases. For example, the
French noun fromage ‘‘cheese’’ derives from the phrase cāseu fōrmāticu
‘‘cheese made in a mould’’ (with the adjective fōrmāticu ‘‘moulded’’), and
thus changed its status from adjective to noun. Thus, -age could be inter-
preted as a nominalizing suYx. In Medieval French, this nominalizing -age
attached to nouns, as in mouton-age ‘‘tax on a lamb’’ and hommage ‘‘hon-
our’’ (from homme ‘‘vassal’’). This -age is also found in the French word
langage, and its English counterpart language. In Modern French, this
nominalizing suYx is no longer productive with nouns, but only with
verbs, as in lavage ‘‘washing’’ from laver ‘‘to wash’’. This change of base
category was probably brought about by reinterpretation. Some base
words could be interpreted as either noun or verb. For instance, aunage
‘‘measuring by the ell’’ could be seen as derived from either the noun aune
‘‘ell’’, or the verb auner ‘‘to measure by the ell’’.
The suYx -age entered many European languages through borrowing of
French words in -age. English has extended its use to native, Germanic
nominal and verbal stems, which shows its productivity in Modern
English:
(23) base N: foot-age, front-age, mile-age, shipp-age, wreck-age, yard-age
base V: break-age, brew-age, cover-age, drain-age, leak-age
The word shortage shows that -age has even been extended to adjectival
bases. In Dutch we Wnd both denominal and deverbal nouns in -age; as in
English, it has also been attached to native stems, an indication of its
productivity.
morphology and language change 271
11.5 Changes in word structure
Complex words, once they are coined, may be subject to reanalysis
and reduction. In reanalysis, words receive a diVerent structural interpre-
tation. A classical example is the reinterpretation of the word hamburger.
This word, derived from the base noun Hamburg, and denoting a speciWc
kind of food originating from that city, received the following structural
reanalysis:
(24) [[hamburg]er] > [[ham][burger]]
Reanalysis can only be observed when the reanalysed structure serves as
a model for new words. In this case, many new words in -burger have been
coined, such as beefburger, cheeseburger, Wshburger, and the like. A similar
pattern is the coinage of turkeyfurter on the model of frankfurter. The piece
burger itself has been reinterpreted as a noun, witness the brand name
Burger King. So in fact we cannot conclude that a new suYx -burger has
developed in English. Burger is a new noun denoting a particular kind of
fast food, and can be used as the head of nominal compounds.
Semantic reinterpretation may also lead to a new set of words. This
has been the case for -gate, as used in Watergate (the name of a building
in Washington, DC, that was burglarized by order of President Nixon).
The morpheme -gate received a new interpretation, ‘‘political scandal’’,
thus leading to many new words such as Monicagate and Irangate (cf.
question 4.4). This suYx also acquired the more general meaning of
‘‘scandal’’, as in nipplegate, a scandal in which the pop star Janet Jackson
was involved. We may conclude that -gate has become a suYx because
this speciWc meaning of gate is only available when it is combined
with a noun. This suYx -gate has been borrowed massively in most
European languages. For instance, a recent political scandal around
the prospective bride Mabel of one of the Dutch princes is referred to
as Mabelgate.
Reanalysis may also have the eVect of a sequence of aYxes becoming an
aYx. A morphological structure [[[x]A]B] can be reinterpreted as [[x]AB].
An example from Dutch is the suYx -erij, originally a combination of the
suYxes -er and -ij:
(25) base noun in -er noun in -ij
bak ‘‘to bake’’ bakk-er ‘‘baker’’ bakk-er-ij ‘‘bakery’’ > bakk-erij
272 morphology and mind
This suYx -erij is now productively attached to verbal bases without an
intermediate noun in -er being necessary), and also to base nouns, which
conWrms that -erij has started a life of its own:
(26) race ‘‘to race’’ race-erij ‘‘racing’’
drogist ‘‘chemist’’ drogist-erij ‘‘drugstore’’
This phenomenon of two aYxes becoming one is referred to as aYx
telescoping. It also occurred in French where bijouterie ‘‘jewellery’’ could
be reinterpreted as bijout-erie (bijou ‘‘jewel’’ > bijout-ier ‘‘jeweller’’ > bijout-
er-ie ‘‘jewellery’’). This French telescoped suYx -erie was also borrowed in
Middle Dutch, and it became -erij due to a regular sound change of
diphthongization of /i/ to /Ei/. Thus, the borrowed -erij enhanced the rise
of a native suYx -erij.
A type of morphological change that concerns individual words is
systematization. In Turkish, many nouns denoting persons end in the
suYx -cI (the capital I stands for the set of high vowels, because the vowel
of this suYx is subject to vowel harmony). This suYx may also be found
attached to loan words from French such as the following (Lewis 1967: 60,
cited in Van Marle 1978: 148):
(27) şoför ‘‘chauVeur’’ şoför-cü
garson ‘‘waiter’’ garson-cu
The addition of this suYx to loan words has the eVect that all nouns
denoting persons are denoted in a uniform way. That is why this morpho-
logical change is qualiWed as systematization. This morphological pattern
complies with a tendency in natural language that is called the one mean-
ing—one form principle: each meaning should correspond with one form.
That is, sameness of meaning implies sameness of form. Compliance with
this principle is achieved in this case by adding a suYx that is strictly
speaking superXuous, and hence a pleonastic addition. Thus, in this case,
systematization leads to overcharacterization.
Such pleonastic aYxation is also found with Dutch acronyms that denote
certain professions or ranks. Quite often these acronyms are enriched with
the suYx -er which creates such denominal names (as in wetenschapper
‘‘scientist’’ from wetenschap ‘‘science’’):
(28) UD (< Universitair Docent ‘‘university teacher’’) > UD-er
KVV (< Kort Verband Vrijwilliger ‘‘short-term volunteer’’) > KVV-er
morphology and language change 273
For the same reason, some complex words of Dutch ending in schwa were
adapted, with replacement of -e by -er, and personal names were extended
with -er, as in:
(29) a. herd-e ‘‘shepherd’’ > herd-er, scutte ‘‘shooter, riXeman’’ > schutt-er,
schenke ‘‘cupbearer’’ > schenk-er;
b. Dominic-aan ‘‘Dominican’’ > Dominic-an-er, Farizee ‘‘Pharisee’’ >
Farizee-er
An example of aYx substitution from child language that is also a case of
systematization is the replacement of -ig by -baar in the Dutch adjective
door-zicht-ig ‘‘lit. through-see-able, transparent’’, leading to door-zicht-
baar. It is the suYx -baar that normally expresses the meaning ‘‘-able’’,
and hence this adaptation by my daughter Suzanne at the age of 2 is also a
case of systematization.
Reduction of word-internal structure takes place when a complex word is
no longer semantically transparent. In that case, it may lose its morphological
structure and change phonologically into the direction of the canonical
phonological form of simplex words. The Dutch word aardappel ‘‘potato’’
is originally a compound made from the lexemes aard ‘‘earth’’ and appel
‘‘apple’’. However, it is not felt as a kind of apple, and hence became opaque.
This reinterpretation is reXected by the way this word is parsed into syllables.
Whereas each lexical constituent of a compound is an independent domain of
syllabiWcation, the word aardappel is now parsed as a simplex word:
(30) compound [[aard]N[appel]N]N (aard)ø(ap.pel)ø [a:rtApel] reanalysed as
simplex word [aardappel]N (aar.dap.pel)ø [a:rdApel]
The diVerent patterns of syllabiWcation (indicated by the dots) which reXect
the loss of morphological structure have an eVect on the phonetic form of
this word. In Dutch, syllable-Wnal obstruents are devoiced. Hence, the
phonetic form [a:rdApel] with a [d] betrays the loss of morphological
structure.
A second example is the Dutch adverb natuurlijk ‘‘of course’’ that derives
from the denominal adjective natuur-lijk ‘‘natural’’ (< natuur ‘‘nature’’). In
its adverbial use, there is no longer a clear semantic relation to its base noun
natuur, and hence this frequently used adverb is pronounced as tuurlijk
[ty:rlek] in casual speech. The latter phonetic form has the shape of a
trochee, with the second syllable headed by a schwa, which is the optimal
prosodic form of Dutch simplex words. The only marked aspect of this
274 morphology and mind
phonetic form is that the Wrst syllable contains a long vowel followed by a
consonant, whereas Dutch word-internal syllables prefer to be bimoraic
(that is, they end either in a long vowel or in a short vowel þ one conson-
ant). This constraint is obeyed in the even more reduced form of natuurlijk
that we also Wnd in casual speech: [tylek]. When used as an adjective,
however, the word natuurlijk has a transparent morphological structure,
and cannot be reduced phonetically.
PreWxes may also lose their morphological status. This is quite clear in
English borrowings from Latin such as abortion and adoption. These words
contain the preWxes ab- and ad- respectively. In transparent complex
words, a preWx boundary coincides with a syllable boundary. In these
words, however, this is not case: the syllabiWcations are a.bor.tion and
a.dop.tion respectively. The Dutch preWx ge-, as in geloof ‘‘to believe’’ is
no longer productive as a verbal preWx. In Afrikaans, the verb geloof has
become a simplex verb, glo, with deletion of the schwa (remember that
Dutch simplex words prefer to begin with a syllable containing a full vowel,
cf. section 7.2). This adaptation implies that in Afrikaans the past participle
is ge-glo, whereas in Dutch it is ge-loof-d, the regular form for verbs with an
initial unstressed preWx.
Summary
Word-formation processes lead to new words, and hence the morphological
system of a language contributes to lexical innovation. The morphological
system itself is also a potential target of change, with external factors and
internal factors involved. Forms of external change are borrowing and
simpliWcation, both due to language contact. Borrowing of complex
words may lead to enrichment of the morphological system, whereas
simpliWcation means reduction of its complexity. Internal causes of change
are that each generation has to Wnd out the rules behind the system (imper-
fect learning, which may also lead to simpliWcation), and that language users
analyse the outputs of the linguistic system, which may lead to reanalysis.
Morphology may develop in the course of history from syntactic con-
structions through univerbation and grammaticalization. In addition,
phonologically conditioned allomorphy can be preserved after the loss of
the conditioning phonological environment, and may be reinterpreted as
marking morphological distinctions.
morphology and language change 275
Complex words, once established, may undergo changes. They may get
a diVerent shape through systematization and overcharacterization.
Complex words may lose their semantic transparency, and hence their
morphological structure. This loss of structure can sometimes be inferred
from the way in which they are syllabiWed, or from phonetic reduction,
which makes them phonologically more similar to simplex words.
Questions
1. The existence of the English suffix -able is due to borrowing of French
adjectives in -able. Nowadays, it can also be attached to native verbal
stems (doable, readable). What evidence can you provide for this suffix
behaving as a non-native suffix of English as well?
2. What is the relationship between bidirectional levelling and the findings on
response latencies for the Italian nouns mentioned in question 10.7?
3. English has two plural forms for brother, brothers and the archaic brethren.
These plural forms have different meanings in present-day English. Try to
explain why these words have different meanings.
4. The English word shepherd [šEperd] derives historically from the compound
sheep-herd. Give an account of the phonetic reduction that this compound
underwent, and why this reduction could take place.
5. The Italian word for ‘‘tomato’’ is pomodoro (plural pomodori ). Its original
form is pomo d’oro ‘‘apple of gold’’. Why can’t we assume this lexical unit
is still phrasal in nature?
6. Try to find violations of the one meaning—one form principle in your native
language.
7. The Latin word requiem is the ACC.SG form of the lexeme requies ‘‘rest’’, and is
used in many languages to denote the Roman Catholic Mass for the Dead.
How can it be explained that languages may apparently borrow cases of
contextual inflection from other languages?
8. The Dutch compound scheidsrechter ‘‘referee’’ consists of the verbal stem
scheid ‘‘to separate’’ and the noun rechter ‘‘judge’’. The linking element
between the two constituents is s. Why can’t we say that this s is a lexica-
lized genitive case ending, and why must it be seen as a stem extension or
linking element?
9. Bakker (2003: 23) established the following hierarchy of preservation of
inflectional marking on nouns in pidgin languages: number > case> gender.
This means that marking for number is more common than for case, and
marking for case is more common than for gender. How might this hier-
archy of preservation be explained?
276 morphology and mind
10. Compare the following two NPs with the same meaning from Old Swed-
ish and Modern Swedish respectively (Norde 1997: 261):
Old Swedish: en-s man-s synd
one-GEN man-GEN sin
Modern Swedish: en man-s synd
one man-s sin
‘‘one man’s sin’’
How can this change in the morphological marking of the possessor of the
head noun be classified?
Further reading
The invisible hand theory of language change is proposed in Keller (1994).
Aitchison (2003) points out that children play a less prominent role in language
change than sometimes claimed.
The morphological erosion in pidgin and creole languages is discussed in
McWhorter (1998). As argued in detail in a number of articles in Plag (2003a),
the idea that pidgin and creole languages do not have morphology is incor-
rect.
A good survey of the phenomena and the theoretical debates concerning
grammaticalization is found in Heine et al. (1991), Hopper and Closs Traugott
(1993), Bybee et al. (1994), and Heine (2003). Heine and Kuteva (2002) is a
reference work on grammaticalization phenomena in the languages of the
world. Bybee (2003) stresses the role of frequency in grammaticalization.
Bybee et al. (1994) and Closs Traugott (2003) argue that it is the reinterpret-
ation of the whole construction of which a lexical word forms part that leads to
grammaticalization of that lexical word. Good surveys and critical evaluations
of grammaticalization theory are given in Newmeyer (1998) and Campbell
(2001). Norde (1997, 2001) discusses degrammaticalization. The rise of verbal
particles and prefixes in Germanic languages through reanalysis is discussed in
more detail in van Kemenade and Los (2003) and in Blom and Booij (2003).
The remarkable persistence of paradigm irregularities in morphological
change is discussed in Maiden (1992).
morphology and language change 277
This page intentionally left blank
Part VI
Conclusions
This page intentionally left blank
12
The word as a linguistic unit
12.1 The notion ‘word’
The notion ‘word’ plays a central role in this book, as witnessed by its title,
The Grammar of Words. It is therefore useful to reXect on our use of this
notion, now that we have come to the end of this book, and should think
about what we have learned about the nature of this linguistic unit.
The basic approach that we have been following is that we started from
an intuitive notion ‘word’. That is, I assumed that you have some initial
understanding of what a word is. Indeed, it has often been observed in the
literature that the notion ‘word’ is one of the most accessible linguistic
notions for language users without linguistic training. This is particularly
the case for speakers of a language with an orthographical system. The
word in its orthographic sense in a language with an alphabetical script,
deWned as a sequence of letters not interrupted by spaces, is an accessible
unit. Yet, even such a simple notion raises problems when we try to apply
it. For instance, this deWnition would mean that the English compound
syllable boundary spelled with internal spacing should not be considered as
one word, but as a sequence of two words, which goes against the intuition
of speakers of English. How are we going to Wnd a principled answer to the
question of identifying and delimiting words?
12.1 The notion ‘word’ 281
12.2 The demarcation of words
and phrases 284
12.3 Phonological words 286
12.4 Lexical integrity 289
Summary 293
Further reading 293
A classical deWnition of the notion ‘word’ can be found in BloomWeld’s
Language that deWnes the word as a ‘‘minimum free form’’ (BloomWeld
1935: 178). This means that a word can form, at least in principle, a
linguistic utterance in isolation. For instance, when you ask What are we
going to eat today? the answer might be Lasagna. This proves that lasagna is
a free form, and since it cannot be decomposed into smaller meaningful
units, it is a minimum free form, and hence a word. You will not Wnd it
diYcult, however, to come up with cases where this simple criterion does
not work. You cannot answer the question What is that? with the word:
Apple. Instead, for reasons of syntax, you have to say: An apple, although
you will agree that apple is a word in English. What one also has to exclude
is metalinguistic usage, because in that case we can also use bound
morphemes in isolation (Which suYx appears in ability? -ity).
An additional and often used criterion for wordhood, aimed at distin-
guishing words from phrases is the criterion of cohesiveness or un-
interruptability: you cannot interrupt a word by putting other words in
between its constituents. For example, since we can say John looked the
information up, we should not consider look up as one word in the sentence
John looked up the information, although semantically look up does form a
unit.
Such deWnitions and criteria are a good starting point, but not the end-
point of a scientiWc analysis of the linguistic unit of the word. In this book,
I developed a more sophisticated notion ‘word’ in such a way that it
became a theoretical notion, embedded in a general theory of language
structure. This is a normal procedure in empirical sciences. One starts with
some intuitive notion, and subsequently, by observing phenomena, and
developing theoretical analyses of these phenomena, a corresponding the-
oretical notion will be Xeshed out.
A Wrst step in moving from an intuitive notion ‘word’ to a more sophis-
ticated one has been presented in Chapter 1, where a distinction was made
between ‘lexeme’ and ‘word form’. This is an essential distinction in using
the notion ‘word’. For instance, when one wants to determine, for whatever
reason, how many diVerent words occur in a particular text, the answer will
depend on whether you mean ‘diVerent lexemes’ or ‘diVerent word forms’.
You will recall from Chapter 1 that the diVerence between these two
notions of ‘word’ presupposes the notion of inXection, and the idea that
word forms with diVerent inXectional markings can be seen as manifest-
ations of the same lexeme. This example thus illustrates an essential insight
282 conclusions
of the philosophy of science: the content of theoretical terms is determined
by the way in which they are embedded in a theoretical framework. Hence,
the theoretical distinction between ‘lexeme’ and ‘word form’ forms part
of the theoretical deWnition of the linguistic notion ‘word’.
A second important step in developing the theoretical notion ‘word’ is
the distinction between the notions ‘word’ and ‘lexical unit’, also intro-
duced in Chapter 1. It is well known that many language users tend to
identify these two notions. In particular, the idea is that a linguistic unit
that is given an entry in a dictionary is a word. We have seen, however, that
this identiWcation is wrong since it impedes a proper analysis of the way in
which linguistic units are structured and behave as parts of larger expres-
sions. That is why the notion ‘listeme’ is useful. Recall that a listeme is a
linguistic unit (a word or a multi-word unit) that is listed in the lexicon. It is
quite clear that language users are able to memorize chunks larger than
words in their lexical memory, such as phrasal terms (red tape, yellow fever,
etc.), idiomatic phrases and even complete sentences such as proverbs. As
we saw, our memory is vast, and can store a lot of information (section
10.2). Therefore, the fact that a linguistic unit is stored in lexical memory
because it has unpredictable meaning properties, or has a certain frequency
of use, or both, does not tell us anything about its word status.
This may be quite obvious, but the matter becomes theoretically interesting
when we consider relatively small units, for instance combinations of two
words that could either be compounds (hence words) or phrases. This prob-
lem shows up quite frequently in the analysis of adjective þ noun sequences in
Germanic languages such as those mentioned above: red tape, yellow fever.
Such sequences have the same function as undisputable words: that of
classifying and referring terms. Why do we want to determine whether a
combination of an adjective and a noun is a compound or a phrase? The
answer is that assigning the proper structural interpretation to such word
sequences is essential for predicting their behaviour with respect to modules
of the grammar, such as morphology or phonology. The relevance for the
phonology of English is that in phrases main stress is on the head constituent,
whereas in compounds the non-head bears main stress. Thus, we can hear the
diVerence between a dárk room (a room for photographic processing) and a
dark róom (a room that is dark). The relevance for morphology is obvious for
languages with inXectional marking of adjectives, such as Dutch and
German: the structural analysis determines whether the adjective bears an
inXectional marking. For instance, the translation of the English A þ N
the word as a linguistic unit 283
sequence hard disk is harde schijf in Dutch, but Festplatte in German. Both the
Dutch and the German expression are A þ N sequences. However, in Dutch
the adjective hard is inXected, and ends in -e, whereas in German, a language
that also features adjectival inXection, the adjective fest ‘Wxed’ bears no
inXectional marking. This observation leads to the conclusion that harde
schijf is a phrase, whereas Festplatte is a (complex) word, namely an AN
compound. This reasoning is based on the principle of Lexical Integrity.
Remember that this principle claims the following (section 8.1):
(1) ‘The syntax neither manipulates nor has access to the internal form of words’
(Anderson 1992: 84).
The inXectional marking of the adjective in the Dutch example harde schijf
is a case of agreement, a rule that is syntactic in nature. Hence, the fact that
the adjective has the form hard-e (an inXected form of the adjective that
encodes agreement for number, gender, and deWniteness with the head
noun), in combination with the principle of Lexical Integrity forces us to
conclude that harde schijf cannot be a word since otherwise we would have
a case here in which the syntactic rule of agreement manipulates the form of
a word-internal constituent.
This illustrates that we have now achieved some further theoretical
sophistication of the notion ‘word’ by formulating the principle of Lexical
Integrity. This principle is a theoretical interpretation of the deWning
property of the linguistic unit ‘word’ that it cannot be interrupted. Hence,
theoretical notions such as ‘word’ are not isolated concepts that stand on
their own, linked directly to empirical observations. Instead, their content
is determined by their place in the network of terms and hypotheses that
together form a scientiWc theory of a certain empirical domain. Therefore,
we cannot determine purely intuitively, without further theoretical analy-
sis, whether a particular sequence of words is a (complex) word itself: this
requires further theoretical reasoning.
12.2 The demarcation of words and phrases
The issue whether a linguistic unit is a word or a phrase comes up regularly
in relation to compounding: a word sequence might be either a compound
(hence a word) or a phrase. Consider the following examples from French:
284 conclusions
(2) a. pomme de terre
apple of earth ‘‘potato’’
b. robe de chambre
cloak of chamber ‘‘chamber cloak’’
c. clair de lune
light of moon ‘‘moonlight’’
d. machine á écrire
machine for write.inf ‘‘typewriter’’
e. voiture d’ enfant
car of child ‘‘perambulator’’
The English glosses for these French examples are all (simplex or com-
pound) words. These French expressions are all established expressions for
referring to speciWc entities. In other words, they are listemes of French.
Hence, it is no wonder that people have sometimes called such expressions
compounds. Yet, they clearly have the shape of a French phrase of the type
[N [Preposition N]], and follow the syntactic rules of French that allow for
noun phrases with a nominal head followed by a PP complement. There-
fore, the linguist Benveniste concluded that so-called nominal compound-
ing in French is in fact a kind of what he calls ‘micro-syntax’ (Benveniste
1967). What we observe here is that syntactic patterns that reXect the
syntactic rules of a language function as templates for coining terms.
Note, however, that there are restrictions in this use of syntax for coining
lexical units. The syntactic restriction in French is that, in contrast to
normal syntax, the second noun in this type of lexical unit can normally
not be preceded by an article, or followed by an adjective that only modiWes
the second noun. An expression like voiture d’un enfant is certainly possible
but blocks the speciWc interpretation ‘‘perambulator’’. It has a diVerent
meaning, ‘‘car of a child’’. Similarly, the expression une pomme de terre
noire (lit. ‘‘an apple of earth black’’) denotes a black potato; that is, it is not
the noun terre that is modiWed, but the whole expression pomme de terre.
Similar observations can be made for the A þ N sequences in Germanic
languages. In yellow fever the adjective cannot be modiWed (*very yellow
fever) without the loss of the speciWc disease interpretation, although very
yellow is a correct adjectival phrase of English. Here are some examples of
such lexical multi-word expressions from Spanish and Greek:
(3) Spanish
telón de acero
curtain of iron ‘‘iron curtain’’
the word as a linguistic unit 285
luna nueva
moon new ‘‘new moon’’
Greek
psixros polemos ‘‘cold war’’
mavri lista ‘‘black list’’
In many linguistic descriptions of such expressions, they are referred to as
‘syntactic words’, which means that they have the formal status of a syntactic
unit, but are functionally similar to words in the strictly morphological sense.
In traditional grammars of Spanish such expressions are referred to as
‘improper compounds’ which also reXects the hybrid status of these linguistic
units (Rainer and Varela 1992: 120). This shows once more that the notion
‘word’ in the formal linguistic sense has to be clearly distinguished from the
notion ‘term’. A term is a linguistic expression used for the classiWcation and
denotation of entities, but terms are not necessarily words.
The delimitation issue also crops up in the analysis of particle verbs in
Germanic languages such as German and Dutch. The particle verbs in these
languages are similar to those of English. A diVerence with English is that the
particles appear immediately before the verbs in embedded clauses (example
4a) whereas they are stranded in main clauses (example 4b; examples from
Dutch) since Wnite verbs in main clauses appear in second position:
(4) a. dat Jan de informatie opzocht
that John the information up looked
b. Jan zocht de informatie op
John looked the information up
As (4a) illustrates, the rules of Dutch orthography prescribe that particle
and verb are written as one orthographic word, even though they do not
form one word from the linguistic point of view since verb and particle can
be split, as in (4b). Hence, the word in its orthographic sense is not
necessarily a direct reXection of the word in its morpho-syntactic sense.
In conclusion, not everything that native languages users may call a word
is a word from the linguistic point of view.
12.3 Phonological words
In section 7.2.4, the notion ‘phonological word’ has been introduced. The
phonological word is a linguistic unit for the representation of the prosodic
286 conclusions
properties of words and phrases (such as stress pattern and syllabiWcation),
and is also a domain of application for phonological rules (such as vowel
harmony in Hungarian). Recall that the properties of words require three
diVerent forms of representation: a morpho-syntactic, a phonological, and
a semantic representation. The crucial insight for our discussion of the
notion ‘word’ is that we must distinguish between ‘morpho-syntactic word’
and ‘phonological word’. Furthermore, we should realize that these two
types of units are not isomorphic. A Dutch compound, for instance, is one
morpho-syntactic word, but consists of more than one phonological
word. Moreover, some aYxes, that is, bound morphemes from a mor-
pho-syntactic point of view, nevertheless form phonological words of
their own, as shown in section 7.2. The English compound syllable bound-
ary mentioned above consists of two phonological words, syllable and
boundary. Each of these phonological words has a word stress of its own
(with the Wrst one being the most prominent one), and is a domain of
syllabiWcation (the division of words into syllables).
Many English compounds are spelled with internal spaces (referred to as
‘open spelling’), hence as at least two orthographic words. One might say
that in such cases, the orthography reXects the division of that compound
into phonological words rather than its morphological make-up. An
English compound may also be spelled without internal spacing (‘solid
spelling’), or with a hyphen. Hence, we have spelling triplets such as tax
payer, taxpayer, tax-payer. Since there are three options, writers of English
are sometimes uncertain as to what the conventionally correct spelling for a
compound is. The hyphenated spelling, as in tax-payer, indicates both that
the word consists of two units (phonological words), and that it forms one
morpho-syntactic word. Many English preWxes are also separated from the
stem by a hyphen, unlike suYxes: anti-social, co-pilot, mini-skirt, post-war,
pre-eminent, re-integrate. This reXects that English preWxes are phono-
logical words of their own, unlike (most) suYxes. Hyphenation may also
be used to indicate that a syntactic construction has the status of lexical
unit. This is the case for lexical expressions such as do-it-yourself and jack-
of-all-trades.
The diVerence between the morphological and the prosodic structure of
a complex word is also reXected by diVerent orthographic conventions with
respect to hyphenation when a word is distributed across two lines. For
instance, in British English, the word structure is hyphenated as struct-ure,
reXecting the morphological make-up of this word, whereas in American
the word as a linguistic unit 287
English this word may be hyphenated as struc-ture which reXects the
syllable division, and hence the prosodic structure of this word.
The English spelling of compounds may be compared to that of Dutch.
In Dutch, a compound has normally to be spelled as one orthographic
word. That is, the spelling reXects the morpho-syntactic representation of
compounds. Many users of Dutch, however, have problems with applying
this rule of orthography properly, and tend to use internal spaces in the
orthographic representation of compounds. That is, they give priority to
the phonological constituency of compounds in the spelling of compounds
(Dutch compounds consist of at least two phonological words).
The theoretical distinction between morpho-syntactic word, phono-
logical word, and orthographic word is thus an important tool for coming
to terms with the behaviour of compounds with respect to morpho-syntax,
phonology, and orthography.
The non-isomorphy between morpho-syntactic word and phonological
word can also be observed for clitics (cf. section 7.2). Clitics (also called
‘small words’) are often qualiWed as being partially word-like, and partially
aYx-like. They are words in that they may occupy the same syntactic
positions in sentences as other words. On the other hand, they form a
prosodic unit with an adjacent word. The best way to deWne the special
status of clitics is that in terms of prosodic deWciency: they are words in the
morpho-syntactic sense, but not in the phonological sense. Whereas,
normally, a word forms a phonological word of its own, a clitic requires
a host word on which it can lean, and with which it can form a prosodic
constituent (it is either part of the phonological word, or adjoined to it).
The Dutch clitic er [er], spelled as ‘r in order to indicate its clitic status, may
serve to illustrate this kind of behaviour. This clitic is the weak, stressless
form of the pronoun haar ‘her’ (and also the weak form of the adverb er
‘there’). This clitic has the same phonological form as the suYx -er that
is comparable to the English suYx -er. The following Dutch sentence
illustrates the use of this clitic pronoun:
(5) Ik vind ‘r lief /Øk vØnd er liv/ [Øk.fØn.ter.lif]
I Wnd her sweet ‘I love her’
The phonetic form of the word sequence vind ‘r is [vØn.ter], with a syllable
boundary between [n] and [t]. The last consonant of the verb that is realized
as a [t] forms one syllable with the segments that form the pronoun ‘r.
That is, the verbal form and the following weak pronoun appear to form
288 conclusions
one phonological word, because the domain of syllabiWcation is the
phonological word.
Dutch also has the suYxed word vind-er ‘Wnder’ derived from the verb
vind ‘to Wnd’. The phonetic form of this word is [vØn.der], with a [d],
whereas the Wnal consonant of the verb vind in (5) is realized as a [t]. This
diVerence in phonetic realization can be explained as follows: a clitic is
attached to the host word in the syntax, whereas the suYx -er is added to the
verbal stem with underlying Wnal /d/ through a morphological operation,
before the phonetic form of the word is computed. Dutch words are subject
to a phonological rule of Wnal devoicing: obstruents such as /d/ are voiceless
at the end of a syllable. In the word vinder [vØn.der], the /d/ appears in
syllable-initial position, and hence does not devoice. In vind ‘r, however, the
/d/ is devoiced into [t], before the clitic is attached, in the syntax. That is
why clitics have sometimes been called ‘post-lexical aYxes’. Thus, by
introducing the notion ‘phonological word’ we are able to give a proper
characterization of what a clitic is, and to what extent it is a word. Thus, we
give further substance to the theoretical notion of ‘word’.
12.4 Lexical integrity
The principle of Lexical Integrity given above forbids syntactic rules to
either manipulate or have access to word-internal morphological structure.
The Wrst of these prohibitions (‘no manipulation’) serves to Xesh out the
idea that words have internal cohesion and cannot be interrupted. That is,
it is quite essential for a proper deWnition of the notion ‘word’.
Syntactic agreement is a good testing ground for lexical integrity, as we
saw above. A cross-linguistically well known rule of syntactic agreement is
that of number agreement between quantiWer and head noun. This rule
applies in Spanish: if a quantiWer expresses plural number, the head word of
the phrase with the quantiWer has to appear with plural number as well. In
the case of Spanish copulative compounds, it appears that both parts of the
compound have to be plural. For instance, the plural form of the copulative
compound poeta-pintor ‘‘poet-painter’’ is poetas-pintores (as in dos poetas-
pintores ‘‘two poet(s)-painters’’). This does not imply, however, that a
syntactic rule of agreement of Spanish manipulates parts of words. Instead,
this regularity can be interpreted as a morphological phenomenon: when
we want to pluralize a Spanish copulative compound, both constituents
the word as a linguistic unit 289
must be marked for plural. Therefore, this word-internal plural marking is
only an indirect eVect of the syntactic rule of agreement, and hence does
not violate the principle of Lexical Integrity.
Another apparent counterexample to this part of the Lexical Integrity
Principle (prohibition of manipulation of the internal structure of words by
the syntax) is the phenomenon of gapping, illustrated in section 7.2 by
means of examples from Dutch. Some examples from English and Euro-
pean Portuguese (Vigario 2003: 251) respectively are:
(6) a. mono- and polysyllabic
inter- and intranational uses
homo- and heterosexual relations
b. pré- e pós-guerra [¼ pré-guerra e pós-guerra] ‘‘pre- and post-war’’
segura- mas lentamente [¼ seguramente mas lentamente] ‘‘surely but
slowly’’
These are cases of prosodic gapping rather than syntactic gapping: a
prosodic word is deleted under identity with another phonological word
in the same phonological phrase. That is, this process of gapping does not
refer to the morphological structure of words, but to their prosodic con-
stituency. Therefore, this kind of gapping does not violate the principle of
Lexical Integrity.
The second part of the principle of Lexical Integrity refers to accessibil-
ity. It excludes that syntactic rules make use of information about the
internal morphological composition of a word. Let us have a look at
some phenomena that suggest that this part of the principle of Lexical
Integrity is too strong.
One of these phenomena is what we might call ‘context-dependent
morphology’: the situation in which a particular syntactic construction
goes hand in hand with a particular morphological form of words in that
construction. The case that I will discuss here to illustrate this point is the
pluralization of Dutch numerals. Dutch features plural forms of ordinal
numerals and some other quantiWers. The use of the plural forms of most
numerals is restricted to a number of speciWc constructions, which are
exempliWed in (7):
(7) a. number of parts
Het schip brak in drie-en
The ship broke into three-en
‘‘The ship broke into three pieces’’
290 conclusions
b. appositive collective
wij / ons drie-en
we / us three-en
‘‘the three of us (subj. / obj.)’’
c. collective adverbial
met ons / jullie / hun drie-en
with us / you / their three-en
‘‘the three of us /you / them together’’
d. collective adverbial
met z’n [zen] drie-en
with his three-en
‘‘the three of us / you / them’’
Example (7d) is a prototypical case of a constructional idiom (cf. section
8.4). It has the form of a PP, headed by the preposition met, followed by
the NP [z’n Numeral-en]. In this NP the slot for the possessive pronoun is
Wxed as z’n (the clitic form of the 3sg possessive pronoun), whereas the slot
for the numeral is open and can be Wlled with all sorts of numerals, as
illustrated in (8):
(8) We komen morgen met z’n twintig-en
We come tomorrow with his twenty-en
‘‘We will come tomorrow with twenty persons’’
Note the incongruence between the person and number of the subject (1pl)
and that of the possessive pronoun (3sg). The examples in (7c) are variants
to be used with agreement in person and number between the subject of a
sentence and the possessive pronoun in the collective construction. So there
are two diVerent collective constructions that are identical except that the
possessive pronoun can either be a variable (and thus subject to the normal
agreement constraints for possessive pronouns), or a Wxed possessive
pronoun z’n ‘his’.
You may have noticed that in the glosses for the Dutch examples I did
not make use of the morpho-syntactic feature plural, but mentioned the
concrete Dutch suYx -en instead. The reason for this is that it is indeed the
speciWc plural suYx -en that is required by this construction. Dutch has two
competing plural suYxes, -s and -en. The choice between these two suYxes
is determined by a prosodic output condition: the plural noun should end in
a trochee. Hence, the suYx -en is selected after stems ending in a stressed
syllable, and the suYx -s appears after stems ending in an unstressed
the word as a linguistic unit 291
syllable. However, in the numeral constructions discussed here, the suYx is
always -en, even when the last syllable is unstressed. For instance, the plural
for the number 7 is zeven-s /zevens/, as is the case when we talk about
grading (Jan kreeg twee zeven-s ‘‘John got two grades 7’’). Yet, in the uses
shown in (7), the plural of zeven is zeven-en /zevenen/. The same applies to
the number negen ‘9’ /negen/: its plural is normally negen-s, but in these
constructions it is negen-en.
These observations imply that we have to specify the presence of a
speciWc suYx -en in the constructions exempliWed in (8). For instance, the
constructional pattern for phrases such as that in (7d) is:
(9) [[met] P [z ’n [ [x]Numeral -en]N]NP]PP
with his x-pl
‘‘the x of us / you / them’’
This analysis suggests that the principle of Lexical Integrity as formulated
in (1) is indeed too strong, and that the syntax may require access to the
internal morphological structure of words.
Another example that implies that such a weakening of the principle of
Lexical Integrity is necessary comes from Georgian. In Georgian we Wnd
expressions like the following (Harris 2006):
(10) sam tit-moč’r-il-i (k’ac-i)
three.obl Wnger-cut.oV- ptcp-nom man-nom
‘‘(a man) with three Wngers cut oV ’’
The Wrst word sam ‘‘three’’ has to appear in the oblique form, because it
modiWes the word tit ‘‘Wnger’’ which is part of the second word. That is, both
for the purpose of case assignment and semantic interpretation, sam and
tit form a unit. Hence, case assignment requires access to the internal
morphological structure of the second word in (10). The construction in
(10) may be compared to that in (11) where the Wrst word bears nominative
case, and where one gets a diVerent interpretation:
(11) sam-i tit-moč’r-il-i
three-nom Wnger-cut.oV- ptcp-nom
‘‘three (men, people, statues) with Wngers cut oV ’’
In (11), the word sami agrees in case marking with the second word as a
whole, and hence it is a modiWer of the whole word.
292 conclusions
As far as semantics is concerned, the Georgian example is similar to
the English phrase transformational grammarian in which the adjective
transformational modiWes the constituent grammar of the complex word
grammarian (cf. section 9.1 where another example, moral philosopher, is
mentioned). The additional property of the Georgian construction is that
case assignment is also sensitive to word-internal structure.
These phenomena thus imply that the principle of Lexical Integrity as
stated in (1) should be weakened. However, this is no blow to our notion
‘word’ as a cohesive and non-interruptable unit of linguistic structure.
Summary
In this chapter we have seen how the theoretical interpretation of the
notion ‘word’ has been developed in this book. A theoretical term is
embedded in a network of theoretical distinctions and hypotheses. The
ingredients that we used for developing an adequate characterization of the
notion ‘word’ are the distinction between lexeme and word-form, and that
between words and lexical unit/listeme, a proper demarcation of syntax and
morphology, and the distinction between morpho-syntactic, phonological,
and orthographic words.
The principle of Lexical Integrity as formulated in (1) can be seen as
a theoretical interpretation of the notion ‘wordhood’. It is too strong,
however, because syntax (and also semantics) may require access to the
internal structure of complex words. The observations and analyses in this
chapter show once more that the grammar of words and the grammar of
sentences are intertwined in many ways!
Further reading
The importance of distinguishing the different notions ‘word’ discussed in this
chapter is also argued for in Dixon and Aikhenvald (eds.) (2002, in particular in
the first introductory chapter of that volume). The demarcation of words
and word-like phrases in a range of languages is discussed in Chapter 10,
‘Incorporating patterns’ of Dahl (2004). The importance of the notion ‘phono-
logical word’ is demonstrated in Hall and Kleinhenz (eds.) (1999). Nevis (2000)
provides a survey of clitic phenomena, and a recent comprehensive theoretical
the word as a linguistic unit 293
study of clitics is Anderson (2005). A more detailed analysis of the phonological
behaviour of Dutch clitics is given in Booij (1996b). Particle verbs in Germanic
languages are discussed in van Kemenade and Los (2003). Context-dependent
morphology is discussed in Booij (2005). The Georgian data and their
implication for the principle of Lexical Integrity are discussed in Harris (2006).
294 conclusions
Answers to questions
Chapter 1. Morphology: basic notions
1. Supposedly has the not completely predictable meaning ‘‘most likely,
presumably’’.
2. The pronunciation and meaning of -able as an affix are different from
those of able as a word.
3. [[un[happi]A]Aness]N, [[contrast]Nive]A, [[dis[connect]V]Ving]V,
[[contradict]Vion]N, [[blue]A[[eye]Ned]A]A or [[[blue]A[eye]N]Ned]A,
[[[connect]Vive]Aity]N
4. col-league or colleague, cord-ial, cor-rel-ate or cor-relate, electr-o-meter, e-
long-at-ion, e-vapor-ate, etern-ity, eu-phem-ism or euphem-ism, habit-ual or
habitu-al, happ-y or happy, mus-ic or music, negoti-able, per-form-ance or
perform-ance, theo-logy or theo-log-y.
5. Plural endings: -oollee, -oota, and -eellee.
6. (i) There are corresponding simplex verbs bid, get, give, go, and swear. (ii)
There is a recurrent element for. (iii) They have the same strong inflection
as the corresponding simplex verbs.
7. All these words indicate that something comes out of something.
8. This is a case of analogical word-formation: mother: father ¼ mother
tongue: father tongue.
9. Falloween: an extended celebration or observance of Halloween, often be-
ginning several weeks before the day; the retail season that extends from the
beginning of fall through Halloween and Thanksgiving in the US (fall þ
Halloween). Giraffiti: graffiti painted at a high spot (graffiti þ giraffe). Metro-
sexual: an urban male with a strong aesthetic sense who spends a great deal
of time and money on his appearance and lifestyle (metropole þ heterosex-
ual ). Nicotini: a nicotine-laced martini (nicotine þ martini ). Pedlock: the
condition or state of being so crowded that people are unable to move easily
in any direction ( pedestrian þ gridlock).
10. a blending (back þ acronym).
Chapter 2. Morphological analysis
1. disagreeable: dis-, -able
acceptability: ac-, cept, -able, -ity
ungrammaticality: un-, gram, -at, -ic, -al, -ity
discriminatory: dis-, crimin, -at, -ory
permafrost: perma-
fascination: fascin, -ation
protolanguage: proto-
versification: -ific-, -at, -ion
intolerance: in-, toler, -ance
unidirectionality: uni-, -ion, -al, -ity
2. a. The mid front vowels [œ] and [E] become back vowels [] and [a]
respectively before the suffixes -al, -itude, -aire, -ité, -ifier, -in, and -iste.
b. This is a morphonological rule because its application is conditioned
by the presence of specific suffixes.
3. a. [t], [d], [Ød].
b. Assume an underlying /d/ as the phonological form of the past tense
suffix. The /d/ is devoiced and thus becomes a [t] if the stem ends in a
voiceless consonant; the vowel [Ø] is inserted before the /d/ if the stem
ends in /d/ or /t/.
4. ki-tapin-a:-wa:w.
2PERS-sit-PL–2PERS
‘‘You (plural) sit’’
5. Suffixation and vowel change.
6. a. a a a a a a
| |
| | | |
CVCCVCV CVCCVCV
| \/ | | | | |
b k l t l f n
b. a a a
| | |
CVCCVCV
7. Plural suffix is -i. The last vowel of the stem is deleted in plural nouns with a
stem ending in /r, n, m/. Stem-final /k/ is voiced before the plural suffix.
8. Past Active: infixation with -um-; Past Passive: infixation with -in-; Present
Active: Partial Reduplication and infixation; Present Passive: Partial redupli-
cation and infixation.
9. Copy the first (C)VC of the stem, and prefix this copy.
10. fam, giall, virtú, blu.
296 answers to questions
Chapter 3. Derivation
1. The verb to joyride is a conversion of the noun joyride, with the structure
[[[ joy]N[[ride]V]N]N]V. Hence, the feature [þablaut] of the verbal root ride,
from which the head noun ride of the nominal compound joyride is derived,
cannot be percolated to the highest V node, because there are intervening
N nodes that cannot carry such a feature.
2. The suffix -able can be attached to verbs of Germanic origin such as do and
read: doable, readable.
3. The prefix en- appears to turn nouns and adjectives into verbs. Thus, it
seems to determine the category of the prefixed word, and to function as
head, although it is in left position. This is a problem for the Right-hand
Head Rule, unless one assumes that the base nouns and adjectives have first
been converted to verbs, and have subsequently been prefixed with en-.
4. One may assume that the prefix in- derives verbs from adjectives, and that
such verbs are automatically assigned to the default conjugation, just like
the converted nouns dribblare and scioccare. Hence, the appearance of the
thematic vowel -a- is a predictable effect of the assignment to this conju-
gation, and not due to suffixation with -a as part of a parasynthetic word-
formation process.
5. In these nouns there is no base noun with a gender specification that can be
percolated to the dominating node.
6. This use of reduplication is not iconic, since we would then expect an
intensified meaning for such reduplicated adjectives.
7. The prefix de- has a privative or a reversative meaning, and attaches to verbs
and nouns. The prefix dis- mainly attaches to verbs, with reversative or
privative meaning, and may also express negation. Of these two, the prefix
dis- is the preferred one before vowel-initial stems. Both combine with
non-native base words only. The prefix in- has a negative meaning and
attaches to non-native adjectives only. The prefix non- attaches to adjectives
and nouns, with negative meaning. It differs from un- in that it preserves the
relational character of its adjectival base. The prefix un-, with the meaning
‘not’ can be attached to adjectives, verbs, and nouns, of both native and
non-native origin.
8. a. No, we might consider this suffix an adjectival suffix, that assigns the
category A to the diminutive adjective.
b. This suffix cannot be attached to relational adjectives since it has a
qualifying meaning.
9. The prefix a- appears before consonant-initial stems, the prefix an- before
vowel-initial stems. Thus vowel hiatus (two vowels in adjacent position) is
avoided.
answers to questions 297
10. This is a case of type coercion: American has to be interpreted as a
qualifying adjective.
Chapter 4. Compounding
1. NN computer desk
AN blackboard
VN pickpocket
PN underground
AA dark-blue
NA ice-cold
VV freeze-dry
AV blindfold
NV brainwash
The heads of English compounds are N, A, or V. Prepositions only combine
with N heads. Vs do not combine with A heads.
2. [[[re[create]V]Vion]N[hall]N]N
[[book]N[[keep]Ving]N]N
[[truck]N[[driv]Ver]N]N
[[pick]V[pocket]N]N
[[under]P[dog]N]N
[[home]N[[grown]V]A]A
3. The left constituents function as heads of these compounds.
4. Although gate is a lexeme, it has a completely different meaning when
used as part of these complex words. Hence, we might consider these
words as cases of derivation with the affix -gate.
5. In (5b) the noun is incorporated. This results in a verb that denotes an
institutionalized act, tree-chopping. The incorporated noun is non-refer-
ential, hence the object in-kool ‘‘my cornfield’’ is possible.
6. The first A þ N combination is a compound, the second one a phrase.
7. In this compound neither of the constituents functions as the head, and
therefore it is exocentric.
8. bear jam: a traffic jam in a park caused by motorists stopping to watch one
or more bears;
deprivation cuisine: food prepared in such a way that it is healthy, but
bland;
flash mob: a large group of people who gather in a usually predetermined
location, perform some brief action, and then quickly disperse;
information pollution: the contamination of a culture or of a person’s life
caused by exposure to excessive amounts of information or data;
298 answers to questions
man breasts: excess fatty tissue that causes a man’s chest to resemble a
woman’s breasts;
office creeper: thief who walks into the workplace looking for pricey laptops
and purses;
salad dodger: an overweight person, a person who shuns healthy foods.
The following words are hard to interpret on the basis of the meanings of
the constituent words: bear jam, deprivation cuisine, flash mob, office
creeper, salad dodger.
9. Such coordinative compounds do not have a head.
10. This is a case of coordinative compounding by means of full reduplication.
In addition, the first consonant of the second constituent is replaced with
sh; this segment is added before a vowel-initial second stem.
Chapter 5. Inflection
1. This is an elliptical construction with the accusative case assigning verb
omitted. It means ‘‘I wish you a good morning’’.
2. The synthetic form is used for monosyllabic adjectives (big–bigger), and
bisyllabic adjectives with a final light syllable (happy–happier). In other
cases the periphrastic form is used, as in more excellent/*excellenter and
more meaningful/*meaningfuller.
3. This depends on your theory of inflection. In a realizational theory of
morphology you do not have to, because there will be no rule that is
triggered by the presence of the feature [infinitive].
4. These facts show that inflected nouns can form constituents of com-
pounds, and hence feed word-formation.
5. The two suffixes in anno-i-n are cases of inherent inflection, whereas the
other endings are cases of contextual inflection. The case markings on vet-
tä and koira-lle are due to structural case assignment (government), the
case marking on kahde-lle is an instance of agreement.
6. This is quite tricky because it means that suppletion will be applicable to all
pairs of different lexemes with similar, related meanings (for instance
man–woman, bicycle–moped), and hence the notion suppletion will lose
much of its distinctive power.
7. The GEN.SG form is a case of cumulative exponence since the suffix -e
expresses both GENITIVE and SINGULAR. This form is a case of extended
exponence as well, since the vowel alternation and the alternation in the
stem-final consonant also mark GEN.SG. The DAT.SG form is also a case of
extended exponence, since the property cluster DAT.SG is expressed by
both a vowel alternation and a consonant alternation.
answers to questions 299
8. In the British English lexicon, the word police must be specified as
[þplural], in the American English lexicon as [plural].
9. MASCULINE þ FEMININE ¼ MASCULINE.
10. Panini’s Principle. The rule that suffixes -eren will be subject to a more
specific condition since it has to refer to a diacritic feature, say [þeren], and
hence takes precedence over the more general rule of -en-suffixation.
Chapter 6. Inflectional systems
1. The cut-off point for the threefold distinction is between animate and
inanimate. Human beings and (larger) animals can be referred to with
he and she, but for inanimate entities, only it can be used.
2. a. Stem shapes for käsi: käs (nominative, comitative), käde (genitive,
translative, abessive, inessive, elative, adessive, ablative, allative, instru-
mental), kätt (partitive), käte (essive, illative); for tyttö: tyttö (nominative,
partitive, essive, illative, comitative), tytö (all other cases).
b. tytön.
3. a. vyr-, broli-, arkli-
b. NOM.PL ¼ VOC.PL.
4. The notions periphrasis and suppletion. In the periphrastic forms both
stems are different from that of the synthetic forms.
5. Past tense is used here for creating distance, hence indirectness, and thus
politeness.
6. In plural forms, NOM ¼ ACC ¼ VOC.
7. The verbal infinitive can function as a neuter noun; hence, it will trigger
gender, person, and number agreement between the subject and the
predicate.
8. The numeral functions here as the head of the phrase since it imposes
genitive or ablative case on the constituent çocuk-lar ‘‘children’’. Hence,
the genitive or ablative case marking on çocuk-lar must be a case of
dependent marking.
9. The presence of the time adverbial morgen ‘‘tomorrow’’ in the Dutch
sentence already indicates that the event will take place in the future.
10. Coughing is a punctual event, and is only semantically compatible with
progressive aspect if the event is repeated.
300 answers to questions
Chapter 7. The interface between morphology
and phonology
1. This can be concluded from the syllabification of words with these suffixes,
for instance: rea.da.ble, wor.ker, wor.king. Crucially, the word-internal syl-
lable boundaries do not coincide with a morphological boundary.
2. These function words do not contain a full vowel, and hence no syllable that
can bear stress. Thus, they cannot form a foot, and hence no prosodic word
of their own, which is a requirement for lexical words. Therefore we can
conclude that they must be function words.
3. The /n/ also occurs in other derived words from the same root, such as
Platonist and Platonism. By considering the /n/ as part of the stem, we
predict this systematic appearance before (non-native) suffixes.
4. We might explain this by assuming that the domain of this rule of assimi-
lation is the phonological word. The prefix in- can be considered as a
cohering prefix, and the prefix non- as a non-cohering prefix. Hence, the
rule of assimilation will only apply to the prefix in- since it forms one
phonological word with the stem, a domain in which the assimilation rule
can apply.
5. This can be shown by making a tableau, for instance for the word bak-er
with the morphological stem bake:
[[bak] er] ALIGNMENT-LEFT NO EMPTY ONSET ALIGNMENT RIGHT
ba.ker
bak.er
F
*!
*
6. In this case, the compound constituent beren is deleted under identity with
an independent noun beren. Therefore, these constituents are syntactically
not identical, and cannot be gapped if this process is conditioned by
syntactic identity. Hence, their identity must be identity on the prosodic
level where they both form a prosodic word (beren).
7. This change follows from the requirement that a lexical word is minimally a
prosodic word. Hence, each lexical word requires the presence of at least
one full vowel. Thus, the letter i that stands for schwa in the suffix is
reinterpreted as a full vowel [Ø].
8. This rule will give the right result for bréakfast tàble because both constitu-
ents are disyllabic. As soon as a compound has longer constituents, wrong
predictions are made. In hı́story tèacher, with secondary stress on the syl-
lable tea, this rule would assign stress to the last syllable of history instead of
the first syllable of teacher. Therefore, the two parts history and teacher must
form independent domains of stress assignment.
answers to questions 301
9. This suffix, or the vowel /e/ of this suffix, must be qualified as transparent:
it does not affect vowel harmony, otherwise the dative suffix would be -nek
in both words. The choice of the vowel is clearly determined by the vowels
of the roots of these words.
10. The determiner a is selected before a consonant-initial word, the deter-
miner an before a vowel-initial word. Since the English determiners form
one phonological word with the following noun, the choice of an, as in an
arm, with the syllabification a.narm, avoids violation of the No Empty
Onset Constraint that would be violated in a arm with the syllabification
a.arm. The choice of a before a consonant-initial word avoids a violation of
the Open Syllable constraint: in an book with the syllabification an.book
the first syllable is closed, unlike the first syllable in a book with the
syllabification a.book.
Chapter 8. Morphology and syntax: demarcation
and interaction
1. The intended referent of it in sentence (a) is truck. This latter word is here
part of a compound, and thus the word truck is not directly accessible for
rules of anaphora because of Lexical Integrity. In sentence (b), the pro-
noun one refers to the whole word truck driver, and hence we do not have
to violate Lexical Integrity to establish the relevant anaphoric relation.
2. The phrase small claims embedded in a compound has a classificatory
function: a small claims court is a court for a particular kind of claims,
small claims. The phrase small claims has therefore a classificatory function.
Hence the adjective small cannot be modified by very.
3. No, lexical units larger than one word can also feed word-formation.
4. The Causer argument of the causative verb is the highest argument, and
will be assigned the grammatical function of subject (in imperative
clauses, the subject is usually not expressed, but understood as the ad-
dressee). Hence, the Agent argument will receive the grammatical func-
tion of object, and therefore be marked with accusative case.
5. a. The verb for ‘‘to begin’’ must be lexically specified as imposing dative
case on its object, since the default case marking for objects is accusative.
b. In the passive sentence, the noun dersler ‘lessons’ is not case marked
as a Subject, but keeps its dative case marking. Hence, it is not a Subject,
unlike what we would expect if passivization were the promotion of
Patient to the grammatical function of Subject.
6. This is a case of valency increase.
7. The addition of the assistive derivational morpheme creates a verb with
three arguments, and hence there are two arguments that are non-sub-
302 answers to questions
jects. Both ‘‘mother’’ and ‘‘brother’’ are marked with the appropriate case
for non-subjects, the accusative case.
8. This is a case of applicative verb formation in which the beneficiary of the
action is also expressed. Hence, it is an instance of valency increase.
9. The combinations of these verbs with past participles can be considered as
the periphrastic fillers of passive cells of the verbal paradigm. The specific,
non-compositional meaning of these word combinations will be assigned
to these cells. You may also consider these combinations of the verbs
worden and zijn with a past participle as constructional idioms. The passive
meaning and the unexpected perfective interpretation of the imperfective
forms of zijn þ past participle will then be considered properties of these
constructional idioms.
10. The two verbs in this sentence, liep and dede cont, apparently function as a
verbal unit. We do not have two coordinated clauses here, but one clause
with a coordinated verb cluster. The object dit ‘‘this’’ of dede cont thus
becomes an object of this multi-word unit, and therefore precedes this unit
when it is fronted.
Chapter 9. Morphology and semantics
1. Doctor who treats horses; doctor (gardener) who treats trees; doctor who
makes use of voodoo rituals; doctor employed in a hospital.
2. beehive: metaphor (place where many people come together)
bottleneck: metaphor
convention: metonymy (activity > set of people involved in the activity)
cliffhanger: metaphor (end of television soap with situation of suspense)
holder: metaphor or metonymy (person > instrument or location)
opposition: metonymy (activity > people involved in the activity)
printer: metaphor (person > impersonal agent > instrument)
3. rural policeman: the location of the police
Martian expedition: the goal of the expedition
early riser: the time of rising
individual decision: the agent of deciding
4. The correspondence rule cannot be universal because in Malagasy the
semantic interpretation of completely reduplicated forms is not ‘‘in-
creased’’, but ‘‘decreased’’.
5. The use of selection as a predicate of John implies a result noun interpret-
ation. Hence it cannot be combined with an agent phrase.
6. The deverbal noun inherits the case-assigning properties of its base verb.
7. This is no violation of the Non-Redundancy Constraint since the
constituent parkeer makes the interpretation of the Dutch word garage
answers to questions 303
unambiguous: as part of this compound, it cannot be interpreted as a
service station.
8. The scope of this suffix which denotes ‘‘possibility of undergoing an
action’’ is: x divide by three. It means: ‘‘for this number x, it is possible to
divide x by three’’. Hence the scope is larger than just the verb divide.
9. blessing: action and result of action
crossing: action and location of action
drawing: action and result of action
dwelling: action and location of action
opening: action and result of action
10. This follows from the polysemy of diminutive suffixes. The first occurrence
of a diminutive suffix in these words denotes the small size, the second
occurrence signals endearment. Hence, these diminutive suffixes have
different meanings, and can therefore be stacked up.
Chapter 10. Morphology and psycholinguistics
1. Dictionaries do not always specify the phonological form of a word (only
the orthographical form). The mental lexicon will also contain individual
associations with words based on individual, personal experience. For
instance, in your personal lexical entry for dog you may have your own
prototype of a dog, or an association with fear.
2. These children do not yet command the established, conventionalized
words for these concepts.
3. The words with a relatively low base frequency: uncanny, unleash, unob-
trusive, and uncouth. This correlates with a relative low degree of semantic
transparency of these words.
4. These verbs obey the principles of simplicity (conversion is a simple formal
operation) and transparency (meaning can be grasped easily). The prin-
ciple of conventionality will have no impact due to the small size of the
mental lexicon of children.
5. The verb to joyride is a conversion of the compound noun joyride, and
hence has no irregular verb to ride as its head. Hence, the irregular past
tense form rode is of no relevance here, and the regular rule of past tense
formation will apply. If such a rule did not exist, we would expect the
association between ride and rode to result in the past tense form joyrode.
6. Words that have identical word-initial phonological strings are associated
in the mental lexicon. Hence, they might be exchanged.
7. This correlates with token frequency. One refers more often to more than
one tree, hair, tooth, foot, and sister than to a singular tree, a singular hair,
etc. Thus, the plural forms of the corresponding Italian nouns have a
304 answers to questions
higher token frequency, and hence a shorter reaction time than the
singular forms. In the case of ‘‘nose’’, speakers will more often refer to a
singular nose than to noses. For soldato and piazza the pragmatic differ-
ences between the singular and the plural notions are minimal. Hence we
do not find large differences in response latency for their singular and
plural forms.
8. The basis for these errors must be the semantic relationship of (near)
synonymy.
9. The past tense forms of the verbs involved differ in that it is made by vowel
change in the case of to know, and by means of suffixation in the case of to
hear. It is the abstract feature [past] that must have been transferred from
to hear to to know, not the suffix -d. Otherwise we would have expected
the form knowed in the if-clause.
10. This shows that patterns that hold for a more or less closed set of words
only, are nevertheless recognizable as such for the language user.
Chapter 11. Morphology and language change
1. The non-native suffix -ity can be added to an adjective in -able, whereas -ity
cannot be attached to native adjectives such as yellow (*yellowity).
2. If plural forms are used more frequently than singular forms, they will have
a higher activation level than singular nouns, and paradigmatic levelling
will also go in the direction of plural forms.
3. This is in accordance with the tendency in natural languages that a
difference in form implies a difference in meaning.
4. The word shepherd has lost its semantic transparency, and has become a
simplex word. Hence, its phonological form has developed into that of a
simplex word (a phonological word consisting of one trochee). The sec-
ond syllable does not bear stress any more, and its vowel has been reduced
to schwa.
5. If this word were still phrasal, we would expect the plural form pomi d’oro.
Thus, the plural form shows that this expression has become a simplex
word.
6. Synonyms are violations of this principle.
7. The accusative form requiem is the first word of the opening line of the
Mass for the Dead:
Requie-m aetern-am dona eis Domin-e
Rest.FEM-ACC.SG eternal-FEM.ACC.SG. give-IMP.SG them Lord-VOC
‘‘Give them eternal rest, o Lord’’
This first word became the name of the whole Mass.
answers to questions 305
8. The first constituent of this word is a verbal stem, and hence it cannot have
a genitive ending since verbs do not have case.
9. In most contexts, information about number of nouns is non-redundant.
Gender has no clear semantic function, and can therefore be dispensed
with easily. Case marking has a semantic function but can be dispen-
sed with as well, because word order and prepositions may take over the
role of marking grammatical functions.
10. This change is the same as that in which the English genitive suffix -s was
involved: it became a clitic (phrasal affix). This is therefore a case of
degrammaticalization.
306 answers to questions
Glossary of terms
abessive case case that expresses ‘absence of, distance from’
ablative case case that expresses ‘movement from’
ablaut pattern of vowel alternation in the roots of inXectionally or derivationally
related word(form)s; a case of internal modiWcation
absolute-ergative system system of case marking in which the subject of intransi-
tive verbs and the object of transitive verbs receive the same absolutive case
marking; the subject of transitive verbs has an ergative case marking
absolutive case case marking of the single argument of a verb with one argument,
and of the Object argument for verbs with more than one argument in an
absolutive-ergative system
accusative case case that marks direct objects of verbs
acronym combinations of initial letters of a word sequence that is pronounced as
a word, not as a combination of letters
action nominalization nominalized form of a verb that expresses an action
action noun noun that expresses an action
activation level the degree of activation of a word in the mental lexicon
activation spreading the spreading of activation from one word to another related
word in the mental lexicon
active voice pattern of linking between arguments of verbs and semantic roles in
which the function of Agent is linked to the grammatical function of subject,
and that of Patient to the grammatical function of object
adessive case case that expresses ‘position at’
adjectivalization the formation of adjectives through a morphological process
adjunct a participant in an event that is expressed optionally
adverbialization the formation of adverbs through a morphological process
aYx a bound morpheme, a constituent of a word attached to a stem of a
particular word class that cannot appear as a word of its own
aYx substitution morphological process in which words are formed by replacing
one aYx of the base word with another one
aYxtelescoping thehistoricalprocessinwhichtwoadjacentaYxesbecomeoneaYx
aYxoid word that exhibits an aYx-like behaviour
agent semantic role of the entity that performs an action
agglutinative language language with complex words in which each morpheme
corresponds with one semantic unit
agrammatism the inability of aphasic patients to use linguistic rules
agreement correspondence in morpho-syntactic properties between words of a
sentence in a speciWc structural conWguration
Aktionsart the lexical or inherent aspect expressed by a verb
alignment the alignment between diVerent structural representations of a word
such as its prosodic and its morphological representation
allative case case that expresses ‘movement towards’
alliterative concord agreement in which the same aYx is used for the agreeing words
allomorph one of the phonetic forms of a morpheme
allomorphy the phenomenon that a morpheme has more than one phonetic
shape; thus, two or more morphs may correspond with one morpheme
alphabetism combination of the Wrst letters of words pronounced with the phon-
etic values of these letters in the alphabet
analogy the pattern of correspondence between similar words or constructions
that enables the language user to make new words or constructions in con-
formity with that pattern
analytic form a word sequence that has the same function as a morphologically
complex word
anaphora the phenomenon that two expressions in a sentence or text refer to the
same entity or action. Used in particular in cases where the referent of a
pronoun is supplied by a preceding referring expression
Animacy Hierarchy scale for the degree of animacy of nouns that plays a role in
the morphological marking of properties
anti-passive morphological marking of verbs in constructions in which the se-
mantic role of Object is not expressed as an argument
apophony pattern of vowel alternation in the roots of inXectionally or deriva-
tionally related word(form)s; a case of internal modiWcation
applicative morphological marking of verbs in constructions in which a partici-
pant that is not expressed as argument in the corresponding base verbs is
promoted to the status of Object-argument
appositive compound compound with a relation of apposition between its con-
stituents
argument noun phrase that receives a semantic role from a verb
aspect the way in which situations (states or events) are presented as to their
internal temporal constituency
atelic aspect aspect that expresses lack of an endpoint of the action or event
attenuative form morphological form that is used to express notions of vagueness
such as ‘more or less, sort of ’
autosegmental morphology the expression of morphological categories through
independent tiers of phonological representation such as the CV-tier or tone
sequences
308 glossary
back formation word formation process in which a less complex word is derived
from a more complex word
bahuvrihi-compound compound that denotes the person in possession of the
entity denoted by the compound
base-driven restriction restriction on a word formation process imposed by
the base words for that process
base frequency the frequency of the base of a word form or derived word with
that base
base word the word to which a morphological operation applies
bimoraic syllable a syllable with a rhyme that consist of two morae
binding the situation in which the interpretation of a variable is Wxed by some
linguistic element
binyan set of forms in the paradigm of Semitic verbs with the same abstract
consonant-and-vowel pattern
bleaching semantic change in which the meaning of a grammaticalized element
becomes more abstract
blend combination of the Wrst part of a word with the second part of another
word
blocking the blocking of the formation of a word through some morphological
process due to the existence of another linguistic unit with the same meaning
borrowing the phenomenon that languages take words from the lexical stock of
other languages as an eVect of language contact
bound morpheme morpheme that only occurs in combination with other mor-
phemes within a word
bracketing paradox the phenomenon that two non-isomorphic structures are
necessary for a complex linguistic expression in order to do justice to its
properties at diVerent levels of representation
breaking the alternation between long vowels and diphthongs in sets of morpho-
logically related words in Germanic languages
case the marking of nouns that encodes their relationship to other elements in
the sentence, in particular verbs, prepositions, and other nouns
category-changing process a morphological process is category-changing if the
syntactic category of the output words diVers from that of the base words
category-determining process morphological process that determines the
syntactic category of its output words
category-neutral process morphological process that preserves the syntactic
category of its input words
causative type of verb with as subject argument an agent that causes an event to
happen
glossary 309
circumWx aYx that is a combination of a preWx and a suYx
citation form the form of a word in which it is cited, for instance in dictionaries
class-changing process a morphological process that changes the syntactic cat-
egory of its input words
clipping process in which words are made by removing a part of that word and
using the remnant as a word with the same meaning, as in mike from micro-
phone
clitic word-like linguistic element that is dependent on a host word to which it
can be attached prosodically. A clitic may have a restricted or special syntactic
distribution compared to other words of the same grammatical category
coda the part of a syllable after the nucleus
cohering suYx suYx that forms a prosodic word with the (last part of the) stem
to which it attaches
combining form a morpheme that is not an independent lexeme, and appears in
neo-classical compounds or is attached to another word; in the latter case they
are similar to aYxes
comitative case case that expresses ‘accompaniment’
common gender non-neuter gender
comparative form of an adjective that expresses comparison, in particular the
meaning ‘more than’
competing aYx aYx that competes for its distribution with a synonymous aYx
complex word word with an internal morphological structure
composition a synonym of ‘compounding’
compositional function the semantic function for a linguistic construction that
computes the meaning of that expression on the basis of the meanings of its
constituents
compound a word that is itself the combination of two or more words
compounding the word formation process in which compounds are formed
concatenation the combination of elements into a linear sequence
concatenative morphology morphology that makes use of the operation of
concatenation
conceptualization rule rule of semantic interpretation that further develops the
interpretation of a complex linguistic expression
concord a synonym of ‘agreement’
conXation the combination of two word formation templates into a new, more
complex one
conjugation a class of verbs that show the same pattern of inXection
connectionism a psychological theory in which knowledge is modelled in terms of
a neural network with connections between pieces of information
constructional idiom an idiomatic pattern in which one or more slots is variable
310 glossary
construct state form of a noun that shows its relation to another element in the
same construction
contextual inXection inXection that is required by the syntactic context in which a
word occurs
converb a verbal form used as an adverb
conversion the making of new words by using words of one syntactic category as
words of another one, without overt morphological marking
co-phonology phonologicalsystemthatappliestoasubsetofthewordsofalanguage
copulative compound compound with a relation of coordination between its
constituents
coreferentiality the phenomenon that two linguistic expressions are used to refer
to the same entity in the relevant domain of discourse
corpus a set of linguistic data
correspondence rule rule that speciWes the relation between the form and the
meaning of a word
cranberry morpheme non-aYxal morpheme that only occurs as part of some
established complex words, as cran in cranberry
creole language a language originating from a pidgin language that has become
the native language of new generations of speakers
cumulative exponence the simultaneous marking of more than one grammatical
category through one morphological element
cumulative frequency the summed frequency of a set of morphologically related
words or word forms
cyclicity the form of rule application in which a set of rules applies cyclically
dative case case that marks the indirect object of a sentence
declension a class of nouns or adjectives with the same inXectional pattern
deXection the loss of inXectional marking of words
degrammaticalization the inverse of grammaticalization
degree the morphological marking on adjectives of diVerent degrees of presence
of a property
deixis the reference of elements as determined by pragmatic factors such as time,
space, speaker, and addressee
demotion the eVect of a morphological operation in which the participants of
events expressed by verbs are demoted to a lower argument status, or to
adjunct status
dental preterite preterite form with a suYx that contains a dental consonant
dependentmarking morphologicalmarkingofthedependentwordinaconstruction
dephonologization process of language change in which a phonological alterna-
tion loses its original phonological motivation
glossary 311
deponent verb verb with an active meaning but a passive morphological form
derivation the formation of complex words by means of aYxation or non-
concatenative morphology
desinence inXectional ending
desyntactization the loss of syntactic status of a linguistic construction
deverbalization the loss of verbal properties of a nominalized verb
diacritic feature non-predictable feature encoded on a lexical item to indicate its
behaviour with respect to a linguistic rule
dictionary reference book with information on the lexical stock of a language
diminutive word with a morphological marking that encodes relative smallness of
size or high degree of aVection
direct case a synonym of ‘structural case’
domain shift the use of a word belonging to a semantic domain in another related
semantic domain
drift long-term change of a language in a certain direction
dual the morphological marking for the number ‘two’
dual system model of morphological knowledge in which perception and
production of complex words make use of two routes, a direct route with
retrieval of these complex words from lexical memory, and an indirect route
in which these complex words are parsed into their constituents (perception) or
put together on the basis of rules (production)
durative aspect aspect indicating that an event has a certain duration
dvandva compound compound that functions as dual or plural expression
echo word formation word formation process in which some or all of the sounds
of the base word are repeated
elative case case that expresses ‘outward movement’
ellipsis omission of a retrievable part of a linguistic expression
elliptical construction construction in which one or more elements are not
expressed overtly
enclisis the attachment of a clitic to a preceding host word
endocentric compound compound of which one of the constituents functions as
its head
equative form of an adjective that expresses the meaning ‘to the same degree’
ergative case case marking of the Subject argument for verbs with more than one
argument in an absolutive-ergative system
established word word that belongs to the lexical convention of a language
evaluative morphology morphological expression of evaluative meanings such as
endearment or aVection
312 glossary
evidential morphological expression of the source or the reliability of the infor-
mation expressed in the relevant sentence
exclusive plural person marking for speaker and non-addressee
exemplar-based model model of linguistic knowledge in which individual com-
plex words and tokens thereof are represented as exemplars in lexical memory
exocentric compound compound without a constituent that functions as its head
explicit transposition the change of word class of a set of base words marked
through the addition of overt morphological material to these words
exponence the expression of grammatical categories through morphological
markers
exponent the morphological element that expresses a grammatical category
extended exponence the marking of a grammatical category by more than one
morphological element
external change change caused by external factors such as language contact
family size the number of derivationally related words of a base word
Wnite verbal form that bears morphological markers for categories such as
person and number, and can function as the only verbal form in a regular
sentence
formally complex word word that behaves as a complex word although there is
no corresponding semantic complexity
free morpheme morpheme that can function as a word of its own
frequency eVect the eVect of frequency of use of a linguistic item on the speed
with which that item is processed
full reduplication reduplication whereby the base word is copied completely
fusion the simultaneous expression of more than one grammatical category
through one morphological element
fusion rule rule that fuses grammatical categories into one node in a morpho-
syntactic representation
fusional language language with a tendency for fusion in its inXectional system
gapping the omission of a linguistic element under identity with another
occurrence of that linguistic element in the linguistic context
gender division of nouns into sets with diVerent inXectional and/or syntactic
behaviour
genitive case case that marks the dependency of a noun or noun phrase on
another noun
genitivus objectivus genitive case that expresses that the noun marked as such
functions as the object argument of another noun
glossary 313
genitivus subjectivus genitive case that expresses that the noun marked as such
functions as the subject argument of another noun
gerund verbal form with a nominal role
gerundive nominal verbal form with the (partial) distribution of a noun
Gesamtbedeuting the common denominator of the meaning of a polysemous
linguistic element
Goal semantic role of the entity towards which the action expressed by the verb is
directed
government an asymmetric structural relation between two linguistic elements
where one element determines properties of the other one
grammatical aspect expression of aspect by means of grammatical categories
grammatical function the function of an argument such as subject or direct object
grammatical word 1. a word that is one of the forms of a lexeme in an inXectional
paradigm; 2. a linguistic unit whose parts cannot be manipulated by syntactic
rules and thus exhibits lexical integrity; 3. a function word
grammaticalization the historical process in which lexical items become gram-
matical words
hapax (also called hapax legomenon) a word that occurs only once in a corpus
head the element in a construction that determines the properties of that con-
struction
head marking the marking of the relationship between a head noun and a
dependent noun on the head noun
head operation morphological operation in which a grammatical property of a
construction is marked morphologically on the head of that construction
honoriWc morphological marker that encodes the social relationship between
speaker and addressee
hypocoristic a pet-name, often used as a proper name to express aVection
iconicity the phenomenon that the meaning of a linguistic expression is reXected
by its formal structure
illative case case that expresses the meaning ‘into’
imperative verbal form that expresses a command
imperfect learning incomplete acquisition of a language that may lead to
language change
imperfective aspect aspect that expresses the situation as ongoing
implicational universal universal in the form of an implicational relation between
the presence of two diVerent properties
implicit transposition the change of word class of a set of words without overt
morphological marking
314 glossary
inclusive plural person marking for speaker and addressee
indicative mood of verb for expressing statements
inessive case case that expresses the notion ‘inside of ’
inWnite synonym of ‘non-Wnite’; verbal form that does not express information
for tense, number, and person
inWnitive non-Wnite form of a verb with nominal properties
inWx aYx that is inserted within a stem
inXection the morphological expression of morpho-syntactic categories on words
inXectional class a set of words with the same inXectional morphology
inXectional ending morphological marking of inXectional properties at the end of
a word
inXectional homonymy synonym of ‘syncretism’
inXectional paradigm the structured set of inXectional forms of a word
inherent case a synonym of ‘semantic case’
inherent inXection inXection of a word that is not required by its syntactic context
inheritance the transfer of properties of a word to the derived word of which it
forms the base
inheritance tree representation in the lexicon of the shared properties of sets of
words
input constraint requirement that a morphological process imposes on the kind
of input words it can take
interWx synonym of ‘linking element’
interlinear morphemic translation morpheme-by-morpheme translation of a lin-
guistic expression
internal change change caused by the dynamics of language use
internal modiWcation pattern of alternation of sounds in the roots of inXectionally
or derivationally related word(form)s
interpretation the assignment of meaning to a linguistic construction
invisible hand theory theory of language change modelled after Adam Smith’s
theory of the economic market: individuals do not behave in a goal-oriented
manner in changing languages but yet language change is the end result of the
behaviour of individuals
irrealis form of verb that indicates that something has not happened or is
unlikely to happen
isolating language language that does not make use of morphology
Item-and-Arrangement morphology model of morphological structure in which a
complex word consists of a sequence of concatenated morphemes
Item-and-Process morphology model of morphological structure in which each
complex word is the output of one or more morphological processes such as
aYxation and internal modiWcation
glossary 315
labelling function the function of words to label entities
language contact contact between speakers of two diVerent languages with eVects
on the lexicon and/or the grammar of one or both languages
levelling diachronic process in which a morphological process becomes more
regular
lexeme the abstract unit that stands for the common properties of all the forms
of a word
lexeme-based morphology morphology that takes lexemes as its inputs
lexeme formation the formation of new lexemes
lexical aspect inherent aspectual property of a lexical item
Lexical Conceptual Structure the representation of the meaning of a lexeme in
terms of conceptual structure
lexical convention the set of existing words of a language that functions as a norm
for language use
lexical decision task in a psycholinguistic experiment in which subjects are asked
to decide on a property of words presented in the experiment
lexical innovation the creation of new words to express new concepts
Lexical Integrity the principle that the constituents of a complex word cannot be
operated upon by rules of syntax
lexical morpheme synonym of ‘free morpheme’
lexical norm the set of existing words of a language that functions as a norm for
language use
Lexical Phonology theory of the interaction between morphology and
phonology that states that morphological and phonological rules apply in
tandem
lexicalization the phenomenon that lexical items acquire unpredictable
properties
linking element meaningless element between two constituents of a complex
word
linking rule rule that predicts the predicate-argument structure of a verb from its
lexical-conceptual structure
listeme synonym of ‘lexical unit stored in the lexicon’
local case case that expresses a spatial notion
local markedness the reversal of what the marked property is in a speciWc local
context
markedness 1. the phenomenon that a particular property of a lexical item is
expressed (marked) morphologically; 2. the phenomenon that a property of a
lexical item is not expected by some rule or principle
meaning that what is expressed by a linguistic unit or construction
316 glossary
mental lexicon the knowledge of the lexicon of a language as represented in the
individual minds of speakers
metaphony synonym of ‘Umlaut’
metonymy use of a word to express a concept that is associated with that word in
its literal sense
middle verb verb with a reXexive or passive meaning
middle voice voice in which the participant denoted by the subject argument is
also the beneWciary of the action
mixed category category of words that exhibit distributional behaviour of more
than one major lexical category
mixed inXection simpliWed form of strong inXection
mood the degree of actuality of an event as expressed by inXectional forms
morph the phonetic form of a morpheme
morpheme the minimal meaning-bearing unit of a language
morpheme-based morphology morphology that takes morphemes as its basic
building-blocks
morphololexical rule phonological rule whose application is governed by
morphological or lexical information
morphome a set of a morphemes in complementary distribution that functions as
stems in an inXectional or derivational paradigm
morphophonology 1. the use of phonology for morphological purposes; 2. phon-
ology as determined in its application by morphological information
morpho-syntactic category category of words that share a property with mor-
phological and/or syntactic eVects
multifunctionality the phenomenon that words can be used for diVerent syntactic
categories without overt diVerential marking
neo-classical compound compound that contains one or more Latin or
Greek roots
neo-classical word formation word formation that makes use of Latin or Greek
roots
neologism new word that does not yet belong to the lexical norm of a language
neuter gender gender of words that are neither feminine nor masculine
nominalization morphological process that turns words into nouns
nominative case case that marks the subject in a Nominative-Accusative system
Nominative-Accusative system system of case marking in which the subject
of intransitive verbs and transitive verbs receive the same nominative case
marking; the object of the transitive verb has an accusative case marking
non-cohering suYx suYx that forms a prosodic word of its own
glossary 317
non-concatenative morphology morphology that makes use of other processes
than aYxation or compounding to create new words or word forms
non-Wnite verbal form that does not express information for tense, number, and
person
No-Phrase Constraint constraint that forbids phrases forming parts of complex
words
noun incorporation operation in which nouns are made part of complex words
nucleus non-optional part of the syllable where vowels and syllabic consonants
appear
oblique case non-nominative structural case
obstruent consonant articulated with high degree of obstruction (stop
or fricative)
onset the consonantal beginning of a syllable before its nucleus
output constraint constraint on the output form of a linguistic expression
overcharacterization redundant morphological expression of a semantic property
of a word
overgeneralization incorrect generalization of a rule to more cases than the rule
should apply to
pan-European lexicon the lexical stock that is shared by most European
languages
Panini’s Principle principle that states that when two rules are both applicable to
a linguistic unit, the one with the most speciWc requirements takes priority, and
blocks the application of the more general rule
paradigm 1. structured set of inXectional forms of a word; 2. set of words that
contain the same word as a building block
paradigmatic levelling linguistic change in which words belonging to the same
paradigm become more similar as to their phonetic form
paradigmatic word formation word formation through extension of a
pattern based on paradigmatic relationships between established words
paradigmatically governed allomorphy choice of allomorph determined by a
paradigmatically related form
parasynthetic word formation word formation by simultaneous attachment of
both a preWx and a suYx
partial reduplication reduplication whereby only part of the base word is copied
participle non-Wnite form of a verb with both verbal and adjectival properties
particle verb phrasal combination of a particle and a verb that forms a lexical
unit and functions as a complex verb
partitive case case that expresses the notion ‘part of ’
318 glossary
passive voice voice in which the agent role is not linked to the grammatical
function of subject, and the grammatical function of the subject may then be
linked to the Patient role
passivization the operation of turning a verb into its passive counterpart
Patient semantic role of the participant of an action that undergoes that action
paucal number morphological form that expresses that a few entities are involved
percolation the transfer of features from a node n to a node that dominates n
perfect form of tense that indicates the continuing relevance of an event in the
past
perfective aspect aspect that presents an action as completed
periphrasis the use of more than one word to express a meaning that, in another
part of the morphology of a language, or in other languages, is expressed by
one complex word
person morpho-syntactic category that expresses speaker, addressee, or another
entity
phonological word a prosodic constituent consisting of minimally one syllable; a
grammatical word that is not a function word consists of one or more prosodic
words
phrasal aYx aYx that attaches to a phrase
phrasal verb verbal complex with phrasal status and the function of a complex verb
pidgin language simpliWed form of a language used in contact between speakers
who do not command a common language
pluralis majestatis plural form used for singular persons in order to express high
social status or respect
polymorphemic consisting of more than one morpheme
polysemy the phenomenon that a word has more than one meaning and these
meanings are related
polysynthetic language language that makes extensive use of word formation
processes for the construction of linguistic expressions
portmanteau morph morph that is the expression of more than one
morpho-syntactic category
position class morphology type of morphology in which there is a speciWc slot in
the complex morphological structure of words for the expression of each
morpho-syntactic category
positive degree the neutral degree form of adjectives
postlexical aYx aYx that is attached to a word postlexically
praesens historicum present form of verb used in story-telling in order to enhance
the liveliness of the performance
Predicate Argument Structure the speciWcation of the meaning of a predicate and
of the participants in the event denoted by the predicate that receives obliga-
tory syntactic expression
glossary 319
predicational aspect aspect expressed by the predicate of a clause
preWx aYx that is attached at the left edge of a stem
preverb element that appears in front of a verb, and forms a linguistic unit with
that verb
priming the presentation of information to a subject in a psycholinguistic
experiment that inXuences the performance on the task to be performed
proclisis the attachment of a clitic at the left edge of the host word
Pro-Drop parameter the parameter of variation between languages with respect
to the overt expression of the subject of a sentence
productivity property of a morphological process: a process is productive if it can
be applied to form new (forms of ) words
prosodic morphology the set of morphological processes that are deWned in terms
of prosodic categories
prosodic structure the structure of a linguistic expression deWned in prosodic
categories such as the syllables, the foot, and the prosodic word
prosodic word a synonym of ‘phonological word’
prosody the organization of phonological properties of linguistic expressions in
suprasegmental constituents such as syllable, tones, and intonation patterns
progressive aspect aspect that expresses the ongoing nature of an event
purist a language user who wants to avoid the borrowing of linguistic expressions
in his native language from other languages
qualifying adjective adjective that denotes a quality of the noun that it modiWes
radial category a semantic category with one or more core meanings from which
other meanings derive
readjustment rule in the framework of Distributed Morphology a rule that
performs a phonological operation on a restricted set of lexical items that are
diacritically marked for that rule
realis form of verb that indicates that something has happened, or happens
realization rule rule that spells out one or more morpho-syntactic properties of a
lexeme
realizational morphology morphological theory that conceives of morphological
processes as the spell-out rules of morpho-syntactic properties of lexemes
reanalysis the assignment of another structure than the original one to a
linguistic expression
recategorization the function of morphology to assign another syntactic category
to a linguistic expression
Recipient the semantic role for the participant in an event that receives
something
320 glossary
redundancy rule rule that states regularities in the properties of listed lexical units
reduplicant the part of a reduplicated word that is not the base
reduplication the morphological operation in which a new word (form) is created
by copying a word or a part thereof, and aYxing that copy to the base
relational adjective adjective that denotes a relation between the head noun that
it modiWes and some other entity evoked by the adjective
relative frequency the frequency of a complex word compared to that of its base
response latency the time interval between the appearance of information that is
to be processed and the reaction of the subject
result noun noun that expresses the result of an action
rhyme the part of the syllable after the consonantal onset and consisting of
nucleus and coda
Right-hand Head Rule rule that states that the right constituent of a complex
word functions as its head, and thus determines the properties of the complex
word
root the stem of a simplex word
root-and-pattern morphology form of non-concatenative morphology in which
the consonants of the root are intertwined with abstract patterns of consonants
and vowels with a grammatical value
rule of referral rule that expresses a generalization concerning the forms in cells
of a paradigm by referring to other cells
rule-governed creativity the ability of language users to coin new linguistic
expressions based on their knowledge of the rules of the language
Saussurean paradox the paradox that a language is a system located in
individuals and yet a system that must be shared by its users and hence belongs
to a community of speakers
schema pattern that expresses the common properties of a set of linguistic units
such as words
scope the domain of a semantic operator
semantic case case used for the expression of a semantic notion
separable complex verb phrasal lexical unit consisting of a verb and a non-verbal
element that functions like a complex verb
serial verb coordination of two or more verbs that function as one complex verb
in a sentence
shifter linguistic unit such as a pronoun whose reference depends on the situation
in which and the speaker by whom it is uttered
simplex word a word without internal morphological structure
single system model of linguistic knowledge or processing that does not make a
distinction between rules and units of representation
glossary 321
singulative morphological marker for the property ‘singular’
sound symbolism the use of sounds (combinations) to express meaning in a
partially systematic way
spell out rule rule that speciWes the phonological realization of (combinations of )
morpho-syntactic properties of words
split ergativity the phenomenon that in one language both a nominative-
accusative and an absolute-ergative system are used for case marking
split morphology the hypothesis that inXection and derivation are to be
accounted for in separate modules of the grammar of natural languages
stem the form of a word that is obtained by removing its inXectional endings and
that functions as the base form for morphological processes
stem allomorphy variation in the phonological shape of a stem that is condi-
tioned by non-phonological factors
stratal constraint constraint on the possible bases of a morphological process
that refers to a particular stratum of the lexicon
stratum subset of words in the lexicon with speciWc properties that often reXect
the historical origin of that set of words
strong inXection inXection with maximal distinctness between the cells of
a paradigm
strong lexicalism the claim that inXection and derivation should be accounted for
in the same, pre-syntactic, module of the grammar
structural case case required by a syntactic context
subcategorization the division of the members of a word class in subsets with
speciWc properties
subjunctive form of the verb that expresses subordination, unreality, or desire
suYx aYx that is attached at the right edge of a stem
superlative degree form of an adjective that expresses that a property is present to
the highest degree possible
suppletion the phenomenon that forms of diVerent roots Wll the cells of a
paradigm
supraWx aYx of a suprasegmental nature such as tone
suprasegmental a phonological property of more than one sound segment
switch reference the phenomenon that a referential diVerence between subjects of
consecutive clauses is marked morphologically
syllable the prosodic organization of sounds into a higher-order unit, with a
vowel or syllabic consonant as its nucleus
syllable structure the internal structure of a syllable: onset and rhyme, with the
rhyme consisting of nucleus and coda
syncretism the phenomenon that diVerent cells of a paradigm are Wlled by the
same phonological word form
322 glossary
syntactic valency the number of arguments that a word can license
syntagmatic relationship relationship between linguistic units that are combined
in a linguistic expression; relationship on the horizontal axis of language
structure
synthesis the phenomenon that complex information is expressed by means of
complex words instead of by syntactic constructions
synthetic compounding word formation in which compounding and derivation
are combined
synthetic form the opposite of ‘analytic form’: situation in which complex
information is expressed by one, complex, word
systematization form of morphological change by which the situation of
‘one form—one meaning’ is obtained for the morphological encoding of a
particular semantic domain
telic aspect aspect that expresses that the endpoint of an action is implied
template a structural scheme for a set of linguistic units
tense the grammatical expression of time notions
thematic role semantic role of a participant in an event
thematic vowel vowel that is used to form a stem from a root
TMA system system for the expression of tense, mood, and aspectual categories
token frequency the number of tokens of a linguistic unit or a class of linguistic
units in a corpus
tonal morpheme tone pattern with the function of a morpheme, that is, expressing
a sound–meaning correspondence
transcategorial construction morphological construction with properties of more
than one word class, such as the inWnitive and the participle
transWx an abstract aYx expressed by the pattern of vowels of a root
transparency the presence of a systematic form–meaning correspondence in a
morphologically complex form
transposition the change of word class of a set of base words
trial morphological form for the number ‘three’
truncation the removal of phonological material as part of a word formation
process
type coercion the semantic interpretation imposed on a base word by a
morphological process
type frequency the number of types of a class of linguistic units in a corpus
umlaut a synonym of ‘vowel mutation’ and ‘metaphony’: pattern of vowel
alternation in the roots of inXectionally or derivationally related word(form)s
which is historically the eVect of assimilation
glossary 323
underlying form the phonological representation of a word on the basis of which
its diVerent phonetic forms can be computed by means of phonological rules
unidirectionality the hypothesis that grammaticalization processes are
unidirectional and cannot be reversed, and always lead from less grammatical
to more grammatical forms
univerbation linguistic change in which (parts of) phrases become one word
universal generalization concerning properties of natural languages
vagueness the phenomenon that the meaning of a linguistic expression is highly
abstract or underspeciWed
verbalization the formation of verbs through a morphological process
voice pattern of linking between semantic roles and grammatical functions such
as active and passive
vowel gradation synonym of ‘Ablaut’ and ‘apophony’: pattern of vowel
alternation in the roots of inXectionally or derivationally related word(form)s
vowel harmony the phenomenon that all vowels of a (prosodic) word have to
share a certain property, for instance frontness or backness
vowel mutation a synonym of ‘Umlaut’ and ‘metaphony’: pattern of vowel alter-
nation in the roots of inXectionally or derivationally related word(form)s
which is historically the eVect of assimilation
weak inXection inXection with reduced formal distinctness of the diVerent cells of
a paradigm
Word-and-Paradigm morphology theoretical model of inXection that takes the
lexeme and its paradigm of cells as the starting point for the analysis of
inXectional systems
word creation the creation of new words by other means than regular morpho-
logical processes
word family set of words that share the same root
word form one of the inXectional forms of a lexeme
word manufacturing a synonym of ‘word creation’
word recognition the matching of linguistic information presented auditively or
visually with a word in lexical memory
world knowledge the non-linguistic knowledge that plays a role in interpreting
words
zero-ending an abstract suYx that represents a set of inXectional properties but
has no overt phonological form
zero-morpheme an abstract morpheme that represents morpho-syntactic or
semantic information but has no overt phonological form
324 glossary
References
BLM Booij, G., Lehmann, Ch., and Mugdan, J. (eds.), Morphology. An Inter-
national Handbook of Inflection and Word Formation (Berlin: De Gruyter),
i (2000), ii (2004).
JL Journal of Linguistics.
Lg Language. Journal of the Linguistic Society of America.
NLLT Natural Language and Linguistic Theory.
YoM Yearbook of Morphology, edited by Geert Booij and Jaap van Marle.
Dordrecht: Foris (1988–90), Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers
(1991– ).
Ackerman, F., and Goldberg, A. (1996). ‘Constraints on Adjectival Past Parti-
ciples’, in A. E. Goldberg (ed.), Conceptual Structure, Discourse and Language,
17–30. Stanford: CSLI.
Aitchison, J. (1987). Words in the Mind: An Introduction to the Mental Lexicon.
Oxford: Blackwell [2002, 3rd revised edition].
—— (2003). ‘Psycholinguistic Perspectives on Language Change’, in Joseph and
Janda 2003: 736–43.
—— (2004). ‘Speech Perception and Production’, BLM ii, art. 163.
Anderson, S. R. (1985). ‘Inflectional Morphology’, in Shopen 1985: 150–201.
—— (1992). A-Morphous Morphology. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (2005). Aspects of the Theory of Clitics. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Andersson, E. (1994). ‘Swedish’, in König and van der Auwera 1994: 271–312.
Aronoff, M. (1976). Word Formation in Generative Grammar. Cambridge, Mass.:
MIT Press.
—— (1980). ‘Contextuals’, Lg 56: 744–58.
—— (1994). Morphology by Itself: Stems and Inflectional Classes. Cambridge
Mass.: MIT Press.
—— and Fuhrhop, N. (2002). ‘Restricting Suffix Combinations in German and
English: Closing Suffixes and the Monosuffix Constraint’, NLLT 20: 451–90.
Austin, P. (1981). A Grammar of Diyari, South Australia. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Ayres, G. (1983). ‘The Antipassive ‘‘Voice’’ in Ixil’, International Journal of Ameri-
can Linguistics 49: 20–45.
Baayen, R. H. (1992). ‘Quantitative Aspects of Morphological Productivity’, YoM
1991, 109–50.
Baayen, R. H. (1993). ‘On Frequency, Transparency, and Productivity’, YoM
1992, 181–208.
—— (2003). ‘Probabilistic Approaches to Morphology’, in R. Bod, J. Hay, and
S. Jannedy (eds.), Probabilistic Linguistics, 229–87. Cambridge, Mass., and
London: MIT Press.
—— Piepenbrock, R., and Gulikers, L. (1995). The CELEX Lexical Database.
Phildelphia: Linguistic Data Consortium, University of Philadelphia (CD-rom).
—— Burani, C., and Schreuder, R. (1997). ‘Effects of Semantic Markedness in
the Processing of Regular Nominal Singulars and Plurals in Italian’, YoM 1996,
13–34.
—— Dijkstra, T., and Schreuder, R. (1997). ‘Singulars and Plurals in Dutch:
Evidence for a Parallel Dual Route Model’, Journal of Memory and Language 36:
94–117.
—— Schreuder, R., de Jong, N. and Krott, A. (2002). ‘Dutch Inflection: The
Rules that Prove the Exception’, in Nooteboom et al. 2002: 61–92.
Baker, M. (1988). Incorporation: A Theory of Grammatical Function Changing.
Chicago and London: University of Chicago Press.
—— (1996). The Polysynthesis Parameter. New York and Oxford: Oxford Univer-
sity Press.
—— (2001). The Atoms of Language. New York: Basic Books.
Bakker, P. (2003). ‘Pidgin Inflectional Morphology and its Implications for Creole
Morphology’, YoM 2003, 3–35.
Barlow, M., and Ferguson, C. (eds.) (1988). Agreement in Natural Language.
Approaches, Theories, Descriptions. Stanford, Calif.: CSLI.
Bauer, L. (2000). ‘Word’. BLM vol 1: 247–57.
—— (2001). Morphological Productivity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Bauer, W. (1993). Maori. London and New York: Routledge.
Beard, R. (1991). ‘Decompositional Composition: The Semantics of Scope Ambi-
guities and ‘‘Bracketing Paradoxes’’ ’, NLLT 9: 195–229.
Becker, T. (1990a). Analogie und morphologische Theorie. Munich: Wilhelm Fink
Verlag.
—— (1990b). ‘Do Words Have Heads?’, Acta Linguistica Hungarica 40: 5–17.
Benveniste, E. (1967). ‘Fondements syntaxiques de la composition nominale’,
published as Chapter 11 of Problèmes de linguistique générale. Paris: Gallimard,
1974.
Berent, I., Marcus, G. F., Shimron, J., and Gafos, A. I. (2002). ‘The Scope of
Linguistic Generalizations: Evidence from Hebrew Word Formation’, Cognition
83: 113–39.
Berko, J. (1958). ‘The Child’s Learning of English Morphology’, Word 14: 150–77.
326 references
Bhatia, T. K. (1993). Punjabi: A Cognitive-Descriptive Grammar. London and New
York: Routledge.
Blake, B. (1994). Case. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Bleser, R. de, and Bayer, J. (1988). ‘On the Role of Inflectional Morphology in
Agrammatism’, in Hammond and Noonan 1988: 45–69.
Blom, C., and Booij, G. E. (2003). ‘The Diachrony of Complex Predicates in
Dutch: A Case Study in Grammaticalization’, Acta Linguistica Hungarica 50:
61–91.
Bloomfield, L. (1935), Language. London: George Allen & Unwin Ltd.
Booij, G. E. (1977). Dutch Morphology: A Study of Word Formation in Generative
Grammar. Dordrecht: Foris.
—— (1985). ‘Coordination Reduction in Complex Words: A Case for Prosodic
Phonology’, in H. van der Hulst and N. Smith (eds.) Advances in Non-Linear
Phonology, 143–60. Dordrecht: Foris.
—— (1986). ‘Form and Meaning in Morphology: The Case of Dutch ‘‘Agent’’
Nouns’, Linguistics 24: 503–17.
—— (1988). ‘The Relation between Inheritance and Argument Linking: Deverbal
Nouns in Dutch’, in Everaert et al. 1988: 57–74.
—— (1992). ‘Morphology, Semantics, and Argument Structure’, in I. Roca (ed.),
Thematic Structure: Its Role in Grammar, 47–63. Berlin and New York: Foris.
—— (1994). ‘Against Split Morphology’, YoM 1993, 27–50.
—— (1996a). ‘Inherent versus Contextual Inflection and the Split Morphology
Hypothesis’, YoM 1995, 1–16.
—— (1996b). ‘Cliticization as Prosodic Integration: The Case of Dutch’, The
Linguistic Review 13: 219–42.
—— (1997a). ‘Allomorphy and the Autonomy of Morphology’, Folia Linguistica
31: 25–56.
—— (1997b). ‘Autonomous Morphology and Paradigmatic Relations’, YoM 1997,
35–54.
—— (1997c). ‘Non-Derivational Phonology Meets Lexical Phonology’, in I. Roca
(ed.), Constraints and Derivations in Phonology, 261–88. Oxford: Clarendon
Press.
—— (1998). ‘Phonological Output Constraints in Morphology’, in W. Kehrein and
R. Wiese (eds.), Phonology and Morphology of the Germanic Languages, 143–63.
Tübingen: Niemeyer.
—— (2000). ‘The Phonology–Morphology Interface’, in L. Cheng and R. Sybesma
(eds.), The First Glot International State-of-the-Article Book, 287–306. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
—— (2002a). The Morphology of Dutch. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
—— (2002b). ‘Prosodic Restrictions on Stacking up Affixes’, YoM 2001, 183–202.
references 327
Booij, G. E. (2002c). ‘Constructional Idioms, Morphology, and the Dutch Lexi-
con’, Journal of Germanic Linguistics 14: 301–27.
—— (2005). ‘Context-dependent Morphology’, Lingue e Linguaggio 2: 163–78.
—— and Lieber, R. (2004). ‘On the Paradigmatic Nature of Affixal Semantics in
English and Dutch’, Linguistics 42: 327–57.
Borer, H. (1988). ‘On the Morphological Parallelism between Compounds and
Constructs’, YoM 1988, 45–66.
Brjars, K., Vincent, N., and Chapman, C. (1997). ‘Paradigms, Periphrases, and
Pronominal Inflection’, YoM 1996, 155–80.
Bosch, P. (1983). Agreement and Anaphora: A Study of the Role of Pronouns in
Syntax and Discourse. New York: Academic Press.
Botha, R. P. (1984). Morphological Mechanisms: Lexicalist Analyses of Synthetic
Compounding. Oxford: Pergamon Press.
—— (1988). Form and Meaning in Word Formation: A Case Study of Afrikaans
Reduplication. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Bresnan, J., and Mchombo, S. (1995). ‘The Lexical Integrity Principle: Evidence
from Bantu’, NLLT 13: 181–254.
Broselow, E. (2000). ‘Transfixation’, BLM i. 552–7.
Bybee, J. L. (1985). Morphology: A Study of the Relation between Meaning and
Form. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
—— (1988). ‘Morphology as Lexical Organization’, in Hammond and Noonan
1988: 119–42.
—— (1995). ‘Regular Morphology and the Lexicon’, Language and Cognitive
Processes 10: 425–55.
—— (2001). Phonology and Language Use. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (2003). ‘Mechanisms of Change in Grammaticization: The Role of Frequency’,
in Joseph and Janda 2003: 602–23.
Cameron-Faulkner, T., and Carstairs-McCarthy, A. (2000). ‘Stem Alternants
as Morphological Signata: Evidence from Blur Avoidance in Polish Nouns’,
NLLT 18: 813–35.
Campbell, L. (2001). ‘What’s Wrong with Grammaticalization?’, Language
Sciences 23: 113–61.
Carstairs, A. (1987). Allomorphy in Inflexion. London: Croom Helm.
—— (1988). ‘Some Implications of Phonologically Conditioned Suppletion’, YoM
1988, 67–94.
Carstairs-McCarthy, A. (1992). Current Morphology. London and New York:
Routledge.
—— (1993). ‘Morphology without Word-Internal Constituents: A Review of
Anderson (1992)’, YoM 1992, 209–34.
328 references
—— (1994). ‘Inflection Classes, Gender, and the Principle of Contrast’, Lg 70:
737–88.
Chomsky, N., and Halle, M. (1968). The Sound Pattern of English. New York:
Harper & Row.
Chung, S., and Timberlake, A. (1985). ‘Tense, Aspect, and Mood’, in Shopen
1985: 202–58.
Clahsen, H. (1999). ‘Lexical Entries and Rules of Language’, Behavorial and Brain
Sciences 22: 991–1060.
Clark, E. V. (1993). The Lexicon in Acquisition. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
—— and Berman, R. A. (1984). ‘Structure and Use in the Acquisition of Word
Formation’, Lg 60: 542–90.
Clark and Berman (2004). ‘Morphology in First Language Acquisition’, BLM ii,
art. 165.
—— and Clark, H. H. (1979). ‘When Nouns Surface as Verbs’, Lg 55: 767–811.
Closs Traugott, E. (2003). ‘Constructions in Grammaticalization’, in Joseph and
Janda 2003: 624–47.
Coates, R. (2000). ‘Exponence’, BLM i. 616–30.
Comrie, B. (1976). Aspect. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (1981). Language Universals and Linguistic Typology. Oxford: Blackwell.
—— (1984). Tense. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (1985). ‘Causative Verb Formation and Other Verb-Deriving Morphology’,
in Shopen 1985: 309–48.
—— (2001). ‘Recipient Person Suppletion in the Verb ‘‘Give’’ ’ (lecture handout,
Berlin).
—— and Thompson, S. (1985). ‘Nominalization’, in Shopen 1985: 349–98.
Corbett, G. (1991). Gender. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (2000). Number. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— and Fraser, N. M. (1993). ‘Network Morphology: a DATR Account of
Russian Nominal Inflection’, JL 29: 113–42.
Cowan, W., and Rakuƒan, J. (1985). Source Book for Linguistics. Amsterdam and
Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Croft, W. (1990). Typology and Universals. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Cruse, A. (2000). Meaning in Language: An Introduction to Semantics and Prag-
matics. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Csat, E. A., and Johanson, L. (1998). ‘Turkish’, in L. Johanson and E. A. Csató
(eds.), The Turkic Languages, 203–35. London and New York: Routledge.
Cutler, A. (ed.) (1982). Slips of the Tongue and Language Production, Linguistics
19, issue 7–8.
references 329
Cutler, A. Hawkins, J. A., and Gillegan, G. (1985). ‘The Suffixing Preference:
A Processing Explanation’, Linguistics 23: 723–59.
Cysouw, M. (2001). The Paradigmatic Structure of Person Marking. Ph.D. diss.
University of Nijmegen [revised edn. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003].
Dahl, Ö. (2004). The Growth and Maintenance of Linguistic Complexity. Amster-
dam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Dell, F. and Selkirk, E. O. (1978). ‘On a Morphologically Governed Vowel
Alternation in French’, in S. J. Keyser (ed.), Recent Transformational Studies in
European Languages, 1–51. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Dimmendaal, G. (1983). The Turkana Language. Dordrecht: Foris.
—— (2002). ‘Morphology’, in B. Heine and D. Nurse (eds.), African Languages: An
Introduction, 161–93. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
DiSciullo, A. M., and Williams, E. (1987). On the Definition of Word. Cambridge,
Mass.: MIT Press.
Dixon, R. M. W. (1977). A Grammar of YidiÆ. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
—— (1994). Ergativity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— and Aikhenvald, A. Y. (eds.) (2000). Changing Valency: Case Studies in
Transitivity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (eds.) (2002). Word. A Cross-Linguistic Typology. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Downing, P. (1977). ‘On the Creation and Use of English Compound Nouns’, Lg
53: 810–42.
Dowty, D. (1991). ‘Thematic Proto-Roles and Argument Selection’, Lg 67:
547–619.
Dressler, W. U., and Barbaresi, L. Merlini (1994). Morphopragmatics: Diminu-
tives and Intensifiers in Italian, German, and Other Languages. Berlin and New
York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Dyk, S. (1988). ‘Oer it foarheaksel witte- (withoe-) en syn syntaktysk komôf ’, in
S. Dyk and G. de Haan (eds.), Wurdfoarried en Wurdgrammatika, 21–44.
Ljouwert: Fryske Akademy.
—— (1997). Noun Incorporation in Frisian. Ljouwert: Fryske Akademy.
Eisenberg, P. (1994). Grundriss der deutschen Grammatik. Stuttgart and Weimar:
Verlag J. B. Metzler.
Elbers, L. (1988). ‘New Names for Old Words: Related Aspects of Children’s
Metaphors and Word Compounds’, Journal of Child Language 5: 591–617.
Everaert, M., Evers, A., Huybregts, R., and Trommelen, M. (eds.) (1988).
Morphology and Modularity: In Honour of Henk Schultink. Dordrecht: Foris.
Fabb, N. (1988). ‘English Suffixation is Constrained Only by Selectional
Restrictions’, NLLT 6: 527–39.
330 references
Fleischmann, S. (1977). Cultural and Linguistic Factors in Word Formation: An
Integrated Approach to the Development of the Suffix-age. Berkeley, Calif.: Uni-
versity of California Press.
Fortescue, M. (1984). West-Greenlandic. Beckenham: Croom Helm.
Frauenfelder, U. H., and Schreuder, R. (1992). ‘Constraining Psycholinguistic
Models of Morphological Processing and Representation: The Role of
Productivity’, YoM 1991, 165–84.
Fromkin, V. (ed.) (1973). Speech Errors as Linguistic Evidence. The Hague and
Paris: Mouton.
Goldberg, A., and Ackerman, F. (2001). ‘The Pragmatics of Obligatory
Adjuncts’, Lg 77: 798–814.
GonzÆlez, P. (2003). Aspects on Aspect: Theory and Applications of Grammatical
Aspect in Spanish. Utrecht: LOT.
Greenberg J. (1963). ‘Some Universals of Grammar with Particular Reference to
the Order of Meaningful Elements’, in id. (ed.), Universals of Language, 73–113.
Cambridge Mass.: MIT Press. [19662
].
Grimes, B. (ed.) (2003). Ethnologue: Languages of the World. Dallas, Tex.: SIL
[14th edn, also on the internet: www.ethnologue.com].
Grimshaw, J. (1990). Argument Structure. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Grel, A. (1999). ‘Decomposition: To What Extent? The Case of Turkish’, Brain
and Language 68: 218–24.
Hagemeijer, T. (2001). ‘Underspecification in Serial Verb Constructions’, in
N. Corver and H. van Riemsdijk (eds.), Semi-Lexical Categories, 415–51. Berlin
and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Hall, C. J. (1988). ‘Integrating Diachronic and Processing Principles in Explaining
the Suffix Preference’, in Hawkins 1988: 321–59.
—— (1991). Morphology and Mind: A Unified Approach to Explanation in
Linguistics. London and New York: Routledge.
Hall, T. A. and Kleinhenz, U. (eds.) (1999). Studies on the Phonological Word.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Halle, M. (1992). ‘The Latvian Declension’, YoM 2001, 33–47.
—— and Marantz, A. (1993). ‘Distributed Morphology’, in K. Hale and
S. J. Keyser (eds.), The View from Building 20: Essays in Linguistics in Honor of
Sylvain Bromberger, 111–76. Cambridge Mass.: MIT Press.
Hammond, M., and Noonan, M. (eds.) (1988). Theoretical Morphology:
Approaches in Modern Linguistics. San Diego: Academic Press.
Harada, S. I. (1976). ‘Honorofics’, in M. Shibatani (ed.), Japanese Generative
Grammar, 499–561. New York: Academic Press.
Harley, H., and Noyer, R. (2003). ‘Distributed Morphology’, in L. Cheng and
R. Sybesma (eds.), The Second GLOT International State-of-the-Article Book,
463–96. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
references 331
Harris, A. (2006). ‘In Other Words: External Modifiers in Georgian’, Morphology
16 (2).
Haspelmath, M. (1996). ‘Wordclass-Changing Inflection and Morphological
Theory’, YoM 1995, 43–66.
Hawkins, J. A. (ed.) (1988). Explaining Language Universals. Oxford: Blackwell.
—— and Cutler, A. (1988). ‘Psycholinguistic Factors in Morphological
Asymmetry’, in Hawkins 1988: 280–317.
Hay, J. (2001). ‘Lexical Frequency in Morphology. Is Everything Relative?’,
Linguistics 39: 1041–70.
—— (2002). ‘From Speech Perception to Morphology: Affix Ordering Revisited’,
Lg 78: 527–55.
—— and Baayen, R. H. (2002). ‘Parsing and Productivity’, YoM 2001, 203–36.
Heine, B. (2003). ‘Grammaticalization’, in Joseph and Janda 2003: 575–601.
—— and Kuteva, T. (2002). World Lexicon of Grammaticalization. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
—— Claudi, U., and Hnnemeyer, F. (1991). Grammaticalization: A Conceptual
Framework. Chicago and London: University of Chicago Press.
Hoeksema, J. (1985). Categorial Morphology. New York: Garland Press.
Hoekstra, T. (1986). ‘Deverbalization and Inheritance’, Linguistics 24: 549–84.
—— and van der Putten, F. (1988). ‘Inheritance Phenomena’, in Everaert et al.
1988: 163–86.
Hopper, P. J., and Closs Traugott, E. (1993). Grammaticalization. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Hyman, L. (2003). ‘Suffix Ordering in Bantu: A Morphocentric Approach’, YoM
2003, 245–83.
Inkelas, S. (1993). ‘Nimboran Position Class Morphology’, NLLT 11: 559–624.
Jackendoff, R. S. (1975). ‘Semantic and Morphological Regularities in the
Lexicon’, Lg 51: 639–71.
—— (1983). Semantics and Cognition. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
—— (1997). The Architecture of the Language Faculty. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT
Press.
—— (2002). Foundations of Language. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Jaeger, J. J., Lockwood, A. H., Kemmerer, D. L., Van Valin, R. D., Murphy,
B. W., and Khalak, H. G. (1996). ‘A Positron Emission Tomographic Study of
Regular and Irregular Verb Morphology in English’, Lg 72: 451–97.
Jakobson, R. (1936). ‘Beitrag zur allgemeinen Kasuslehre’, reprinted in Roman
Jakobson: Selected Writings, ii. Word and Language, 23–71. The Hague and
Paris: Mouton.
Janssen, D., Roelofs, A., and Levelt, W. J. M. (2002). ‘Inflectional Frames in
Language Production’, Language and Cognitive Processes 17: 209–36.
332 references
Jong, N. H. de, Schreuder, R., and Baayen, R. H. (2000). ‘The Morphological
Family Size Effect and Morphology’, Language and Cognitive Processes 15: 329–65.
Joseph, B. D., and Janda, R. D. (eds.) (2003). The Handbook of Historical Linguistics.
Oxford: Blackwell.
Jurafsky, D. (1996). ‘Universal Tendencies in the Semantics of the Diminutive’, Lg
72: 533–78.
Kager, R. (1999). Optimality Theory. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Kastovsky, D. (1986). ‘The Problem of Productivity in Word Formation’,
Linguistics 24: 585–600.
Katamba, F. (ed.) (2004). Morphology. Critical Concepts in Linguistics, 6 vols.
London: Routledge.
Keenan, E. (1976). ‘Towards a Universal Definition of Subject’, in C. Li (ed.),
Subject and Topic, 303–34. New York: Academic Press.
—— and Polinsky, M. (1998). ‘Malagasy (Austronesian)’, in Spencer and Zwicky
1998: 563–623.
Keller, R. (1994). On Language Change: The Invisible Hand in Language. London:
Routledge.
Kemenade, A. van, and Los, B. (2003). ‘Particles and Prefixes in Dutch and
English’, YoM 2003, 79–118.
Kerke, S. C. van de (1996). ‘Affix Order and Interpretation in Bolivian Quechua’,
Ph.D. diss. Univ. of Amsterdam.
Kiefer, F. (1992). ‘Compounding in Hungarian’, Rivista di Linguistica 4: 61–78.
Kiparsky. P. (1994). ‘Allomorphy or Morphophonology?’, in R. Singh (ed.),
Trubetzkoy’s Orphan: Proceedings of the Montréal Round-Table ‘Morphonology:
Contemporary Responses’, 13–62. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Klaiman, M. H. (1991). Grammatical Voice. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Klamer, M. (1998). A Grammar of Kambera. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Knig, E., and van der Auwera, J. (eds.) (1994). The Germanic Languages. New
York: Routledge.
Koptjevskaja-Tamm, M. (1993). Nominalizations. London and New York: Rou-
tledge.
Kornfilt, J. (1997). Turkish. London and New York: Routledge.
Krott, A. (2001). ‘Analogy in Morphology: The Selection of Linking Elements in
Dutch Compounds’, Ph. D. diss. University of Nijmegen.
—— Schreuder, R., and Baayen, R. H. (2001). ‘Analogy in Morphology:
Modeling the Choice of Linking Morphemes in Dutch’, Linguistics 39: 51–93.
Kula, C. N. (2002). The Phonology of Verbal Derivation in Bemba. Utrecht: LOT.
Kutsch Lojenga, C. (1994). Ngiti: A Central-Sudanic Language of Zaire. Cologne:
Rüdiger Köppe Verlag.
references 333
Lappe, S. (2003). ‘Monosyllabicity in Prosodic Morphology: the Case of Truncated
Personal Names in English’, YoM 2002, 35–86.
Lass, R. (1990). ‘How to Do Things with Junk: Exaptation in Language Evolution’,
JL 26: 79–102.
Lefebvre, C. (2003). ‘The Emergence of Productive Morphology in Creole
Languages: The Case of Haitian Creole’, YoM 2002, 35–80.
Lehmann, C. (1982). ‘Directions for Interlinear Morphemic Translations’, Folia
Linguistica 16: 199–224.
—— (2004). ‘Interlinear Morphemic Glossing’, BLM ii, art. 169.
Levelt, W. J. M. (1989). Speaking: From Intention to Articulation. Cambridge,
Mass.: MIT Press.
Levi, J. N. (1978). The Syntax and Semantics of Complex Nominals. New York:
Academic Press.
Lewis, G. L. (1967). Turkish Grammar. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Lieber, R. (1980). On the Organization of the Lexicon. Ph.D. diss. MIT, published
by Garland Press, New York, 1994.
—— (1987). An Integrated Theory of Autosegmental Processes. Albany, NY:
SUNY Press.
—— (1989). ‘On Percolation’, YoM 1989, 95–138.
—— (1992). Deconstructing Morphology. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
—— (2000). ‘Substitution of Segments and Features’, BLM i. 567–76.
McCarthy, J. J. (1981). ‘A Prosodic Theory of Non-Concatenative Morphology’,
Linguistic Inquiry 12: 373–418.
—— (1998). ‘Prosodic Morphology’, in Spencer and Zwicky 1998: 283–305.
—— and Prince, A. (1994). ‘Generalized Alignment’, YoM 1993, 79–154.
McWhorter, J. (1998). ‘Identifying the Creole Prototype: Vindicating a
Typological Class’, Lg 74: 788–818.
Maiden, M. (1992). ‘Irregularity as a Determinant of Morphological Change’, JL
28: 285–312.
Malouf, R. P. (2000). Mixed Categories in the Hierarchical Lexicon. Stanford
Calif.: CSLI.
Marantz, A. (1982). ‘Re Reduplication’ Linguistic Inquiry 13: 83–545.
Marchand, H. (1969). The Categories and Types of Present-Day English Word
Formation, 2nd edn. Munich: Beck.
Marcus, G. (2001). The Algebraic Mind: Integrating Connectionism and Cognitive
Science. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Marle, J. van (1978). ‘Veranderingen in woordstructuur’, in G. A. T. Koefoed
and J. van Marle (eds.), Aspecten van taalverandering, 127–76. Groningen:
Wolters-Noordhoff.
—— (1985). On the Paradigmatic Dimension of Morphological Creativity. Dor-
drecht: Foris.
334 references
Martin, W., and Tops, G. A. J. (1984). Van Dale Groot Woordenboek Engels–
Nederlands. Utrecht: Van Dale Lexicografie.
Matthews, P. H. (1972). Inflectional Morphology: A Theoretical Study Based on
Aspects of Latin Verb Conjugation. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Melc
“uk, I. (2000). ‘Morphological Processes’, BLM i. 523–34.
Mithun, M. (1984). ‘The Evolution of Noun Incorporation’, Lg 60: 847–94.
—— (1999). The Languages of Native North America. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
—— (2000). ‘Incorporation’, BLM i. 916–28.
Muysken, P. C. (1988). ‘Affix Order and Interpretation: Quechua’, in Everaert et al.
1988: 259–79.
Nau N. (2001). ‘Introduction’, in id. (ed.), Typological Approaches to Latvian.
Berlin: Akademieverlag (Sprachtypologie und Universalienforschung 54/3).
Nevis, J. (2000). ‘Clitics’. BLM Vol 1: 388–401.
Newmeyer, F. J. (1998). Language Form and Language Function. Cambridge,
Mass.: MIT Press.
Nichols, J. (1986). ‘Head-Marking and Dependent-Marking Grammar’, Lg 62:
56–119.
Nooteboom, S. G., Weerman, F., and Wijnen, F. (eds.) (2002). Storage and
Computation in the Language Faculty. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Norde, M. (1997). ‘The History of the Genitive in Swedish: A Case Study in
Degrammaticalization’, Ph.D. diss. University of Amsterdam.
—— (2001). ‘Deflexion as a Counterdirectional Factor in Grammatical Change’,
Language Sciences 23: 231–64.
Olsen, S. (2000). ‘Composition’, BLM i. 898–916.
—— (2001). ‘Copulative Compounds: A Closer Look at the Interface between
Syntax and Morphology’, YoM 2000, 279–320.
Oniga, R. (1992). ‘Compounding in Latin’, Rivista di Linguistica 4: 97–116.
Payne, T. E. (1997). Describing Morpho-Syntax: A Guide for Field Linguists.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Pinker, S. (1999). Words and Rules. New York: Basic Books.
Plag, I. (1996). ‘Selectional Restrictions in English Suffixation Revisited’, Linguistics
34: 769–98.
—— (1999). Morphological Productivity: Structural Constraints in English
Derivation. Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
—— (ed.) (2003a). ‘The Morphology of Creole Languages’, YoM 2002, 1–134.
—— (2003b). Word-Formation in English. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Plank, F. (1981). Morphologische (Ir-) Regularitäten. Tübingen: Narr.
Rainer, F. (2000). ‘Produktivitätsbeschränkungen’, BLM i. 877–85.
references 335
Rainer, F. and Varela, S. (1992). ‘Compounding in Spanish’, Rivista di Linguistica
4: 117–42.
Ralli, A. (1992). ‘Compounding in Modern Greek’, Rivista di Linguistica 4:
143–74.
Rappaport, M., Levin, B., and Laughren, M. (1993). ‘Levels of Lexical Repre-
sentation’, in J. Pustejovsky (ed.), Semantics and the Lexicon, 37–54. Dordrecht:
Kluwer.
Rice, K. (1989). A Grammar of Slave. Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
—— (2000). Morpheme Order and Semantic Scope: Word Formation in the
Athapaskan Verb. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Riehemann, S. Z. (1998). ‘Type-Based Derivational Morphology’, Journal of
Comparative Germanic Linguistics 2: 49–77.
Riemsdijk, H. van (ed.) (1998). Clitics in the Languages of Europe. Berlin and New
York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Robins, R. H. (1959). ‘In Defense of WP’, Transactions of the Royal Philological
Society, 116–44.
Ronneberger-Sibold, E. (2000). ‘On Useful Darkness: Loss and Destruction of
Transparency by Linguistic Change, Borrowing and Word Creation’, YoM 1999,
97–120.
Rosen, S. T. (1989). ‘Two Types of Noun Incorporation: A Lexical Analysis’, Lg 65:
294–317.
Rubach, J., and Booij, G. (2001). ‘Allomorphy in Optimality Theory: Polish
Iotation’, Lg 77: 26–60.
Rumelhart, D., and McClelland, J. (1986). ‘On Learning the Past Tenses
of English Verbs: Implicit Rules or Parallel Distributed Processing?’, in
J. McClelland, D. Rumelhart, and the PDP Research Group (eds.), Parallel
Distributed Processing. Explorations in the Microstructure of Cognition, 216–71.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Ryder, M. E. (2001). ‘Complex -er Nominals: Where Grammaticalization and
Lexicalization Meet’, in E. Contini-Morava and Y. Tobin (eds.), Between
Grammar and Lexicon, 291–331. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Sadler, L., and Spencer, A. (2001). ‘Syntax as an Exponent of Morphological
Features’, YoM 2000, 71–96.
Salmon, V. (2000). ‘The Term ‘‘Morphology’’ ’, BLM i. 15–21.
Saussure, F. de (1916). Cours de linguistique générale. Paris: Payot.
Scalise, S. (1984). Generative Morphology. Dordrecht: Foris.
—— (1988). ‘The Notion of ‘‘Head’’ in Morphology’, YoM 1988, 229–46.
—— (1992a). ‘Compounding in Italian’, Rivista di Linguistica 4: 175–99.
—— (ed.) (1992b). ‘The Morphology of Compounding’, Rivista di Linguistica 4 (1).
Schreuder, R., and Baayen, R. H. (1997). ‘How Complex Simplex Words Can
Be’, Journal of Memory and Language 37: 118–39.
336 references
Selkirk, E. O. (1982). The Syntax of Words. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Shopen, T. (ed.) (1985). Language Typology and Syntactic Description, iii. Gram-
matical Categories and the Lexicon. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
SiptÆr, P., and Trkenczy, M. (2000). The Phonology of Hungarian. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Song, J. J. (1996). Causativity and Causation: A Universal-Typological Perspective.
London and New York: Longman.
—— (2001). Linguistic Typology: Morphology and Syntax. Harlow: Longman.
Spencer, A. (1988). ‘Bracketing Paradoxes and the English Lexicon’, Lg 64:
663–82.
—— (1991). Morphological Theory. Oxford: Blackwell.
—— and Zaretskaya, M. (1998). ‘Stative Middles in Russian’, Essex Reports in
Linguistics, 22. Colchester: Dept of Language and Linguistics, University of
Essex.
—— and Zwicky, A. (eds.) (1998). A Handbook of Morphology. Oxford: Blackwell.
Stroomer, H. (1987). ‘A Comparative Study of Three Southern Oromo Dialects in
Kenya’, Ph.D. diss. Univ. of Leiden.
Struijke, C. (2002). Existential Faithfulness: A Study of Reduplicative TETU,
Feature Movement, and Dissimilation. New York and London: Routledge.
Stump, G. (1993). ‘On Rules of Referral’, Lg 69: 447–79.
—— (2001). Inflectional Morphology: A Theory of Paradigm Structure. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Sulkala, H., and Karjalainen, M. (1992). Finnish. London and New York:
Routledge.
Szymanek, B. (1989). Introduction to Morphological Analysis. Warsaw: Państwowe
Wydawnictwo Naukowe.
Talmy, L. (1985). ‘Lexicalization Patterns’, in Shopen 1985: 57–149.
Taylor, J. R. (2002). Cognitive Grammar. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Tekoriene, D. (1990). Lithuanian: Basic Grammar and Conversation. Kaunas:
Spindulys.
ThrÆinsson, H. (1994). ‘Icelandic’, in König and van der Auwera 1994: 142–89.
Tiersma, P. (1982). ‘Local and General Markedness’, Lg 58: 832–49.
Uhlenbeck, E. M. (1978). Studies in Javanese Morphology. The Hague: Martinus
Nijhoff.
Unterbeck, B., Rissanen, M., Nevalainen, T., and Saari, M. (eds.) (2000).
Gender in Grammar and Cognition, 2 vols. Berlin and New York: Mouton De
Gruyter.
Verheij, A. C. J. (2000). Bits, Bytes, and Binyanim: A Quantitative Study of
Verbal Lexeme Formations in the Hebrew Bible. Leuven: Uitgeverij Peeters and
Departement Oosterse Studies.
references 337
Vigario, M. (2003). The Prosodic Word in European Portuguese. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Vogel, I. (1994). ‘Verbs in Italian Morphology’, YoM 1993, 219–54.
Voorhoeve, J. (1979). ‘Multifunctionaliteit als derivationeel probleem’, in
T. Hoekstra and H. van der Hulst (eds.), Morfologie in Nederland, special issue
of GLOT (Leiden: Univ. of Leiden), 41–9.
Vries, L. de (1989). ‘Studies in Wambon and Kombai’, Ph.D. diss. University of
Amsterdam.
Weggelaar, C. (1986). ‘Noun Incorporation in Dutch’, International Journal of
American Linguistics, 52: 301–5.
Welmers, W. E. (1973). African Language Structures. Berkeley, Calif.: University
of California Press.
Wierzbicka, A. (1991). Cross-Cultural Pragmatics: The Semantics of Human
Interaction. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Wiese, R. (1996). The Phonology of German. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Williams, E. (1981). ‘On the Notions ‘‘Lexically Related’’ and ‘‘Head of a Word’’’,
Linguistic Inquiry 12: 245–74.
Wiltshire, C., and Marantz, A. (2000). ‘Reduplication’, BLM i. 557–67.
Wurzel, W. U. (1980). ‘Ways of Morphologizing Phonological Rules’, in J. Fisiak
(ed.), Historical Morphology, 443–62. The Hague: Mouton.
Zwicky, A., and Pullum, G. (1983). ‘Cliticization vs Inflection: English n’t’, Lg 59:
502–13.
338 references
Language index
Afrikaans (South Africa) 59, 136, 202,
210–11, 226, 259, 269–70, 275
Agta (Philippines) 47
Alabama (Amerindian) 29
Arabic 46
Bayso (Ethiopia) 126
Bemba (Zambia) 120
Biak (New Guinea) 174
Bulgarian 46
Cree (Amerindian) 46
Diyari (Australia) 180–1, 200
Dutch passim
Dyirbal (Australia) 193–4, 200
English passim
Finnish 101, 123, 126, 132–3, 147–8
Flemish (Belgium) 202
French 6, 19–22, 39, 45, 52, 83, 107–8,
111, 123, 144, 170, 181, 195, 261,
266, 271, 273, 285
Frisian (The Netherlands) 92, 262–3,
265
Gaelic 123
Georgian 292
German 7, 20–2, 29, 32, 37, 62, 64,
66, 68, 75, 80–2, 102–6, 109,
112–13, 130, 137, 140, 169, 181,
193, 224, 248, 257, 261, 264–4,
267
Greek, Classical 19, 30, 33, 36, 179
Greek, Modern 75, 88, 94, 286
Greenlandic Eskimo 42, 194, 197
Hebrew, Biblical 61
Hebrew, Modern 37–8, 107, 245
Hungarian 75, 84, 106, 110, 132, 162,
183, 222
Icelandic 128–9, 167
Ilokano (Philippines) 179
Italian 6, 28–9, 3–2, 34, 47, 55–6, 60, 73,
77–9, 94, 113, 140–4, 166, 183, 203,
253, 276
Ixil (Mexico) 196
Japanese 224
Javanese (Java, Indonesia) 35
Kambera (Sumba, Indonesia) 110, 205
Khmu (Laos) 29
Kolyma Yukaghir (Siberia) 144
Latin 19, 30–1, 33, 39, 52, 55, 75, 80,
100, 103–8, 111–12, 114, 142–3, 148,
179, 261–2, 276, 289
Latvian 137
Limburgian (The Netherlands) 181
Lithuanian 134, 147
Malagasy (Madagascar) 73, 226
Maori (New Zealand) 39, 78, 126
Nahuatl (Mexico) 197
Ngiti (Congo) 12, 36, 128
Oromo (Ethiopia, Kenya) 25
Polish 15, 27–9, 32, 42, 99, 116–17,
226
Ponapean (Micronesia) 92
Portuguese 14, 290
Punjabi (India, Pakistan) 81, 94–5
Quechua (South America) 60, 72, 139,
165, 204–5
Russian 59, 110, 129
Sanskrit (India) 81, 196
São-Tomense (São-Tomé) 203
Spanish 6, 21, 79, 90, 113, 136–7, 181,
285, 289
Sranan 39
Swahili (East-Africa) 130–1
Swedish 171, 177, 277
Tagalog (Philippines) 47
Turkana (Kenya) 44
Turkish 42, 148–9, 200, 204–5, 226, 273
Tuscarora (Amerindian) 198
Wambon (New Guinea) 15–16
Wolof (Africa) 197
Yidiny
(Australia) 163
Yucatec (Mexico) 94
Yup’ik (Amerindian) 42, 208
340 language index
Index of terms
abessive 132
ablative 132
ablaut 36
absolutive 192
Absolute-Ergative system 192
accusative 103
acronym 20
action nominalization 214
action noun 214
activation level 234
activation spreading 235
adessive 132
adjectivalization 52
adjunct 191
adverbialization 52
affix 9
competing 172
phrasal 167
postlexical 167
affix substitution 40
affix telescoping 273
affixoid 86
Agent 91
agrammatism 242
agreement 82
agglutinative language 42
Aktionsart 135
alignment 159
allative 132
alliterative concord 131
allomorphy 31
paradigmatically governed 170
alphabetism 20
anaphora 187
analogy 13
analytic form 113
Animacy Hierarchy 127
anti-passive 196
apophony 36
applicative 197
argument 91
core 190
aspect 135
atelic 135
durative 135
grammaticall 135
imperfective 135
lexical 135
perfective 135
predicational 135
progressive 136
telic 135
attenuative 15
autosegmental morphology 179
back formation 40
base-driven restriction 67
base frequency 234
base word 35
bidirectional leveling 265
binding 216
binyan 61
bleaching 266
blend 20
blocking 17
borrowing 19
bracketing paradox 212
breaking 265
case 15
direct 105
inherent 105
lexical 105
local 132
oblique 105
semantic 105
structural 105
category-changing 35
category-determining 52
category-neutral 54
causative 199
change
external 258
internal 258
circumfix 29
citation form 29
class-changing 35
clipping 20
clitic 166
coda 160
combining form 30
comitative 132
comparative 101
composition 75
compositional function 56
Compositionality Principie 207
compound
appositive 81
bahuvrihi 80
copulative 80
dvandva 81
endocentric 79
exocentric 79
neo-classical 30
compounding 5
Compound Stress Rule 175
concatenation 9
conceptualization rule 311
concord 107
conflation 56
conjugation 102
connectionism 245
constructional idiom 83
construct state 107
converb 102
conversion 5
cooperation 210
co-phonology 177
coreferentiality 15
corpus 69
correspondence rule 13
cranberry morpheme 30
creole language 259
cumulative frequency 234
cumulative root frequency 234
cyclicity 175
dative 103
declension 102
deflection 260
degrammaticalization 268
degree 101
deixis 134
demotion 194
dental preterite 266
dependent marking 104
dephonologization 263
deponent verb 114
derivation 5
direction of 7
desinence 28
desyntactization 263
deverbalization 214
diacritic feature 118
dictionary 18
diminutive 14
Distributed Morphology 118
domain shift 221
drift 260
dual 44
dual system 243
echo word formation 22
elative 132
ellipsis 20
elliptical construction 192
enclisis 166
encyclopedic knowledge 209
equative 101
ergative 192
evaluative morphology 14
evidential 137
exemplar-based model 248
exclusive 139
exponence 116
cumulative 116
extended 116
exponent 116
family size 235
Faithfulness 158
FinDevoicing 158
finite 101
frequency effect 234
fusion 42
fusional language 42
fusion rule 119
gapping 164
gender 108
common 129
feminine 129
masculine 129
neuter 129
non-neuter 130
genitive 106
genitivus objectivus 133
genitivus subjectivus 133
gerund 101
gerundive nominal 214
Goal 91
Gesamtbedeutung 133
government 104
grammatical function 190
grammaticalization 86
hapax 69
head 53
head marking 106
head operation 77
hierarchy 44
honorific 224
hypocoristic 21
342 index of terms
iconicity 59
illative 132
imperative 137
imperfect learning 58
inclusive 139
indicative 137
inessive 132
infinite 101
infinitive 101
infix 29
inflection 4
contextual 104
inherent 104
mixed 109
strong 109
weak 109
inflectional class 102
inflectional ending 28
inflectional homonymy 129
inflectional paradigm 15
inheritance 215
inheritance tree 62
input constraint 64
interfix 88
interlinear morphemic translation 41
internal modification 36
interpretation 209
invisible hand theory 260
irrealis 137
isolating language 41
Item-and-Arrangement
morphology 116
Item-and-Process morphology 117
labelling function 14
language contact 258
lexeme 3
lexeme formation 5
Lexical Conceptual Structure 190
lexical convention 17
lexical decision 234
lexical innovation 257
Lexical Integrity 22
lexicalization 17
lexical norm 17
lexical phonology 167
lexicon 16
mental 18
pan-European 19
linking element 88
linking rule 191
listeme 23
Main Stress Rule 175
markedness 43
local 44
meaning 209
metaphony 37
metaphorical use 221
metonymy 221
middle verb 39
mixed category 214
mood 137
morph 31
morpheme 8
bound 9
free 9
lexical 9
tonal 36
morpholexical rule 170
morphological rule 10
morphologically conditioned rule 169
morphology 4
concatenative 34
evaluative 14
lexeme-based 11
morpheme-based 8
non-concatenative 12
morphome 143
morphophonology 33
morphosyntactic category 99
morphosyntactic feature 99
motivated 207
multifunctionality 39
neologism 232
neural network 245
nominalization 52
nominative 103
Nominative-Accusative system 192
non-finite 101
No Empty Onset Constraint 158
Non-Redundancy Constraint 59
No Phrase Constraint 188
noun incorporation 92
nucleus 160
obstruent 32
onset 160
Open Syllable Lengthening 169
Optimality Theory 159
output constraint 65
overcharacterization 273
overgeneralization 237
Panini’s Principle 118
paradigm 8
paradigmatic leveling 264
paradigmatic relationship 8
parser 5
index of terms 343
participle 101
particle verb 186
partitive 132
passivization 194
Patient 91
paucal 126
percolation 54
perfect 136
periphrasis 113
person 138
phrasal verb 22
pidgin language 259
pluralis majestatis 140
polymorphemic 9
polysemy 220
polysynthetic language 41
portmanteau morph 42
position class morphology 119
positive 101
praesens historicum 134
Predicate Argument Structure 190
prefix 29
preverb 202
priming 240
proclisis 166
Pro Drop parameter 140
productive 18
productivity 67
prosodic morphology 180
prosodic structure 158
prosody 65
purist 257
qualifying adjective 211
radial category 223
readjustment rule 119
realis 137
realizational morphology 117
realization rule 117
reanalysis 258
recategorization 14
Recipient 104
redundancy rule 18
reduplicant 178
reduplication 35
full 35
partial 35
relational adjective 57
relative frequency 250
response latency 234
result noun 215
rhyme 160
Right-hand Head Rule 54
root 28
root-and-pattern-morphology 37
rule of referral 129
rule-governed creativity 6
Saussurean paradox 257
schema 247
scope 208
separable complex verb 84
serial verb 203
shifter 138
single system 245
singulative 44
sound symbolism 22
spell out rule 117
split ergativity 193
split morphology 120
stem 28
stem allomorphy 88
stratal constraint 65
stratum 65
strong lexicalism 120
subcategorization 120
subjunctive 137
suffix 29
cohering 155
non-cohering 156
superlative 101
suppletion 33
suprafix 36
suprasegmental 36
switch reference 16
syllable 160
bimoraic 179
syllable structure 160
syncretism 28
syntactic valency 60
syntagmatic relationship 8
synthesis 41
synthetic compounding 90
synthetic form 113
systematization 273
template 11
templatic morphology 119
tense 134
future 134
past 134
present 134
thematic role 191
thematic vowel 29
TMA system 133
token frequency 69
transfix 37
transcategorial construction 214
transparency 34
344 index of terms
transposition 38
explicit 38
implicit 38
trial 126
tripartite parallel structure 154
truncation 21
type coercion 67
type frequency 69
umlaut 37
underlying form 32
unidirectionality 268
univerbation 20
universal
implicational 43
markedness 43
morphological 43
vagueness 210
verbalization 52
voice 196
active 196
middle 196
passive 196
vowel gradation 36
vowel harmony 162
vowel mutation 37
word
complex 7
established 12
formally complex 117
grammatical 27
orthographic 286
phonological 154
prosodic 158
simplex 7
Word-and-Paradigm
morphology 117
word creation 20
word family 4
word form 3
word-formation 5
neo-classical 66
paradigmatic 13
parasynthetic 56
word grammar 13
word manufacturing 20
word recognition 235
world knowledge 209
zero-ending 28
zero-morpheme 39
index of terms 345
