European Portuguese and Brazilian Portuguese: An Overview on Word Order  17
Despite the similarities seen above, deep structural differences underlie the grammars of
EP and BP, some of which will be seen in detail below.
3.  Two systems of clitic placement in Portuguese
Clitic placement offers a case of striking contrast in word order between BP and EP.
Whereas BP displays generalized proclisis, EP displays enclisis and proclisis in both
finite and non‐finite domains. Other differences between BP and EP relative to clitic
pronouns are also very clear: for example, the fact that clitics cannot cluster in BP and the
3rd person accusative clitic is not part of the (colloquial) BP grammar, or the fact that
dative clitics are easily replaced by prepositional phrases with non-clitic pronouns in BP.
This strategy is also used to avoid a 3rd person accusative clitic, or else BP resorts to a
null element. These differences between BP and EP are illustrated in (5) and (6) below,
but in the remainder of this section we will concentrate on clitic placement since the
main focus of this chapter is word order.
(5)  a.  O livro, eu já lho dei. (EP *BP) clitic cluster: dative + accusative
the book I already him‐it gave
b. O livro, eu já lhe dei. (EP BP) null 3rd person accusative
the book I already him gave
c. O livro, eu já dei pra ele (*EP BP) non‐clitic 3rd person pronoun
the book I already gave for he
“The book, I have already given it to him.”
(6)  a. Essa menina, eu não a  conheço. (EP *BP) 3rd person accusative clitic
that girl I not her know
b. Essa menina, eu não conheço. (EP BP) null 3rd person accusative
that girl I not know
c. Essa menina, eu não conheço ela. (*EP BP) non‐clitic 3rd person pronoun
that girl I not know she
“That girl, I don’t know her.”
A distinct property of clitic placement in Portuguese, in comparison to the other
Romance languages, is its independence with respect to verbal morphology. In fact, the
opposition [± finite] does not lie behind the split between proclitic and enclitic placement,
in contrast with Spanish, Catalan and Italian, nor does the opposition [± imperative], in
contrast with French.
But while proclisis is general and exceptionless in Brazilian Portuguese, in European
Portuguese enclisis and proclisis surface both in finite and non‐finite domains, with a con-
textual distribution governed by grammatical factors that are quite complex.3
A detailed description of the distribution of proclisis and enclisis in EP is not our
purpose here (see Chapter 12, this volume, and Martins 2013), but we will underscore a
few descriptive observations that indicate the particularity of EP among the Romance
languages.4
We will then suggest that the complexity of the EP system may have prompted
the change that resulted in the generalized proclitic pattern that characterizes BP and is
unique among the Romance languages.
The five characteristic features of the EP system identified below contribute to what Costa,
Fiéis, and Lobo (2014) refer to as “input variability” and show to result in clitic misplacement
and late acquisition of the adult grammar by Portuguese children.
18  Mary Aizawa Kato and Ana Maria Martins
(i)	 In EP there is a correlation between sentential polarity and clitic placement. The
dichotomy affirmation/negation brings about the opposition enclisis/proclisis:
(7)  a.  Hoje ele falou‐me.
today he spoke‐me
“Today he spoke to me.”
b. Hoje ele não  me falou.
today he not me spoke
“Today he didn’t speak to me.”
(ii)	 In EP the dichotomy between root and subordinate finite clauses gives rise to the
opposition between enclisis and proclisis, which applies to all types of finite subordinate
clauses:
(8) a. Evidentemente o coronel suicidou‐se
evidently the colonel killed‐himself
“Evidently the colonel killed himself.”
b. Dizem   
que o coronel se    
suicidou.
say‐3pl that the colonel himself killed
“People say that the colonel killed himself.”
(iii)	 In EP some syntactic contexts allow variation between enclisis and proclisis. The
variable pattern of clitic placement exhibited by the prepositional infinitival clauses in
(9) is part of both standard and dialectal EP.
(9) a. Pensou em suicidar‐se.
thought‐3sg in kill‐himself
b. Pensou em se suicidar.
thought‐3sg in himself kill
“He thought about killing himself.”
(iv)	 In sharp contrast with Spanish, Catalan and Italian, the opposition finite/non‐
finite does not govern the alternation between proclisis and enclisis in EP. As
exemplified in (10) both enclisis and proclisis can be found in finite and non‐finite
domains. In (10b) and (10d), it is the presence of the adverb também that induces
proclisis.
(10)  a.  Ele  aposentou‐se   cedo,
he  retired‐himself early
“He retired early.”
b. Ele  também  se    aposentou  cedo.
he  also   himself  retired   early
“He also retired early.”
c. Esperava aposentar‐se cedo.
wished retire‐infin‐himself early
“He wished to retire early.”
d. Esperava também  se    
aposentar cedo.
wished also   himself retire‐infin early
“He wished to also retire early.”
European Portuguese and Brazilian Portuguese: An Overview on Word Order  19
(v)	 The concept of “proclisis trigger” is descriptively useful to handle clitic placement in
EP, but not in BP, Spanish, Catalan, Italian or French. Only in EP, proclisis in
affirmative root sentences depends on the presence in preverbal position of one of a
set of apparently heterogeneous elements, not easily reducible to a class or type
(independently of the chosen ontology). A few examples are given in (11b–e), which
instantiate respectively the aspectual adverb já, the quantifier todos, the wh‐ phrase
onde and the fronted focalized phrase de notícias as proclisis triggers.5
(11)  a.  Ele  casou‐se.
he  married‐himself
“He got married.”
b. Ele  já    
se    casou.
he already himself married
“He has got married already.”
c. Todos se casaram.
all themselves married
“All of them got married.”
d. Onde se casaram?
where themselves married
“Where did they get married?”
e. De  notícias  se   faz   
o  nosso mundo. (TV channel slogan)
of  news  
itself makes the  our  
world
“It’s news that makes up our world.”
The complexity of the EP system of clitic placement leads not only to late acquisition, as
mentioned above, but also to a residual amount of marginal variability in the adult grammar,
across geolinguistic varieties and across time (cf. Martins 2011). This is shown in (12)–(13)
with examples that represent literary/journalistic EP, EP dialects and the African varieties of
Portuguese, which all share with EP the same pattern of clitic placement. Because examples
of enclisis in proclitic contexts have been largely referred in the literature (e.g. Duarte and
Matos 2000), we give here instead an illustration of the opposite situation, with proclisis
emerging in enclitic contexts. All the sentences below have a correlate with enclisis in the
same dialect or Portuguese variety, which represents the ordinary pattern.
(12) a. Isto	 que	 digo,	 Miguel Torga	 o	 disse,	 a	 seu	 modo,	 antes	 de	 mim.
this	 that	 say‐3sg	 Miguel Torga	 it	 said	 in	 his	 way	 before	 of	 me
“What I am saying, Miguel Toga has said before, in his own way.”
(António Lobo Antunes, Visão magazine)
b. Me  enganaste?!
me tricked
“Did you trick me?!”
(CORDIAL‐SIN: Melides, Alentejo)
c. Às	 vezes	 me	 junto	 com	 os	 meus	 amigos
at	 times	me	 gather	with	the	my	 friends
“Sometimes I get together with my friends.”
(CORDIAL‐SIN: Santo André, Vila Real)
d. Homem, tu o viste no outro dia
man you him saw in‐the other day
“Man, you saw him the other day.”
(CORDIAL‐SIN: Pico, Azores)
20  Mary Aizawa Kato and Ana Maria Martins
e. Eles	 se	 encontram	 marginalizados.
they	themselves	 find	 marginalized
“They find themselves marginalized.”
(Portuguese of Mozambique. Mapasse 2005: 67)
f. Mano, ela me cansou.
brother she me tired
“Brother, I got tired of her.”
(Portuguese of Mozambique. Justino 2010)
g. Me	 disseste	 que	 era	 segredo,	não	 meterias	 a	 foto	 dele	 no
me	 said	 that	 was	 secret	 not	 would‐put	 the	 photo	of‐him	 in‐the
Facebook,	 me	 mentiste
Facebook	 me	lied
“You told me that it was a secret, that you would not post his photo in Facebook,
you lied to me.”
(Portuguese of Angola. Domingos 2010)
(13) a. Não	 quero	 me	 gabar,	 mas	 li	 todo	 o	 Ulysses	 do	 Joyce
not	 want	myself	 praise‐infin	 but	 read	all	 the	 Ulysses	 of‐the	Joyce
“I don’t wish to praise myself, but I have read the whole of Ulysses by Joyce.”
(Público newspaper. In Rodygina 2009: 71)
b. Não sei porquê. Não posso então lhe explicar.
not know why not can then you explain‐infin
“I don’t know why. So I can’t explain to you.”
(CORDIAL‐SIN: Pico, Azores)
c. Não	 querendo	 se	 dedicar	 aos	 estudos
not	wanting	themselves	apply‐infin	to‐the	studies
“Not wishing to apply themselves to study…”
(Portuguese of Mozambique. Mapasse 2005: 74)
Interestingly, written BP (in contrast to colloquial BP) also displays variation between procli-
sis and enclisis in the same syntactic configurations, as illustrated in (14), with finite verbs,
and (15), with infinitives.6
(14) a. O	 jesuíta	 se	 acomodou	 num	 caixote	 de	 vinhos.
the	Jesuit	 himself	accommodated	in‐a	 box	 of	 wines
“The Jesuit sat on a box of wine bottles.”
(Pessotti 1997: 20)
b. O padre apresentou‐se.
the priest introduced‐himself
“The priest introduced himself.”
(Pessotti 1997: 17)
(15) a. Pode	 me	 chamar	 por	 meu	 nome.
can	 me	call‐infin	by	 my	 name
“Please, call me by my first name.”
(Pessotti 1997: 16)
b. Resolvi render‐me.
decided‐1sg surrender‐infin‐myself
“I decided to surrender.”
(Pessotti 1997: 22)
European Portuguese and Brazilian Portuguese: An Overview on Word Order  21
So, maybe written BP is not merely an artificial system (as has been usually thought of)
but an elaboration of some earlier stage of historical development that precedes the emer-
gence of generalized proclisis (cf. Pagotto 1992; Carneiro 2005).7
In fact, the stable low level
of variability that seems to be intrinsic to the EP system could have risen significantly in a
historical situation favoring incomplete acquisition due to particular social conditions and
broad language contact (see Chapter 3, of this volume). The rise of “input variability” beyond
a certain threshold for learnability would then prompt the emergence of a new system of
clitic placement. This is not the place to follow or explore this line of reasoning, but it sug-
gests an avenue for further inquiry. We will now focus on the description of clitic placement
in (colloquial) Brazilian Portuguese.
In BP object clitics are proclitic to the verb selecting them, irrespective of verbal mor-
phology and type of clause:
(16)  a.  (Maria,) me dá um beijo.
Maria, me give a kiss
“(Maria,) give me a kiss.”
b. A	 Maria	 me	 viu.
the	Maria	me	saw
“Maria saw me.”
c. A	 Maria	 pode/quer	 sempre	 me	 ver.
the	Maria	can/wants	always	 me	see‐infin
“Maria can always see me./Maria always wants to see me.”
d. A	 Maria	 está	 sempre	 me	 olhando.
The	Maria	 is	 always	 me	 looking
“Maria is always looking at me.”
e. Você	 já	 tinha	 me	 dado	 um	 beijo.
you	 already	 had	 me	 given	a	 kiss
“You had kissed me already.”
As shown in (16), Brazilian Portuguese clitics show no restrictions with respect to being
initial or to cliticizing to nominal forms of the verb, including infinitival complements of
restructuring verbs, gerunds and past participles. In fact, clitic climbing associated with
restructuring verbal complexes, which is a grammatical option in EP, is not allowed in BP,
where proclisis to the thematic verb is general:
(17)  a. Você não pode me despedir. (*EP BP)
you not can me fire‐infin
b. Você não me pode despedir. (EP *BP)
you not me can fire‐infin
“You can’t fire me.”
(18) a. Ele está me provocando. (*EP BP)
he is me provoking
b. Ele me está provocando. (EP *BP)
he me is provoking
“He is provoking me.”
(19) a. Você não tinha ainda me contado. (*EP BP)
you not had yet me told
b. Você não me tinha ainda contado. (EP *BP)
you not me had yet told
“You hadn’t told me that yet.”
22  Mary Aizawa Kato and Ana Maria Martins
Clitic placement is thus invariant in BP. Object clitics behave as elements akin to verbal pre-
fixes, as far as they always occur at the left edge of the thematic verb.8
But the relevant
comparison to establish seems to be with stressed prefixes. In this respect it is worth noting
the similarity between the distribution of BP clitics and the distribution of the prefix recém.
Both left‐adjoin to the verb and cannot precede an auxiliary except in passives, possibly
because in passives the past participle can incorporate into the auxiliary (cf. Campos 1999):
(20)  a.  Nós (recém) casamos (*recém).
we just married just
“We have just married.”
b. Nós (*recém) tinhamos (recém) casado.
we just had just married
“We had just married.”
(21) a. Ele foi recém contratado.
he was just hired/elected
(Google search)
b. Ele recém foi contratado. (idem)
he just was hired/elected
“He had just been hired/elected.”
(22) a. Ele foi me apresentado. (idem)
he was me introduced
b. Ele me foi apresentado. (idem)
he me was introduced
“He was introduced to me.”
Stressed prefixes are modifiers that left‐adjoin to a word (not to the verbal root), giving rise
to a complex prosodic word (Villalva 2000; Vigário 2003; Newell 2005). Adjunct modifiers are
non‐category‐changing entities as they do not project category features. If clitics in BP are
like stressed prefixes in being non‐category‐changing entities that left adjoin to the verbal
head, we expect that clitics and the prefix recém can alternate in their relative positions. This
is in fact so:
(23) a. Recém nos conhecemos.
just us know
(Luís Fernando Veríssimo)9
b. Nós	 nos	 recém	 conhecemos.
we	us	 just	 know
“We only recently know/met each other.”
Although stressed prefixes have a certain degree of independence in EP as well, there are no
cases of the kind of word order variation attested in (23), which signals that clitics are entities
of a different nature in Brazilian and European Portuguese.10
4.  Divergences in the word order of declarative sentences11
4.1.  The “categorical” and “thetic” distinction12
Sentences can express a “categorical” judgment, namely they can attribute a property to an entity,
whichmaybecodifiedasthesubjectorthetopicofasentence.Inthetwovarieties,theunmarked
order for simple declarative sentences of the categorical, or predicational type, is SV(X):13
European Portuguese and Brazilian Portuguese: An Overview on Word Order  23
(24) a. O Santos venceu o Corinthians. (EP BP)
the Santos beat the Corinthians
“Santos has beaten Corinthians.”
b. O dólar  subiu. (EP BP)
the dollar  went‐up
“The dollar went up.”
A “thetic” sentence, on the other hand, describes a situation in which no single entity is
assigned a topic status. In the two varieties the unmarked order can be VS (X):
(25) a. Chegou a primavera. (EP BP)
arrived the Spring
“Spring arrived.”
b. Há	 prédios	 lindos	 em	 São Paulo. (EP BP)
have	 buildings	 beautiful	 in	 São Paulo
“There are beautiful buildings in São Paulo.”
c. Desapareceu	 o	 iPhone	 da	 minha	 bolsa. (EP BP)
disappeared	the	 iPhone	 from	 my	 purse
“My iPhone disappeared from my purse.”
d. Passaram	 poucos	 alunos	 no	 exame. (EP BP)
passed	 few	 students	in‐the	exam
“Few students passed the exam.”
e. Viajou	 comigo	 um	 cantor	 de	 rock. (EP BP)
traveled	with‐me	a	 singer	 of	 rock
“A rock singer traveled with me.”
In EP, the unmarked pattern for categorical sentences is SV(X) as exemplified above, with the
subject being assigned a property of the predicate. In BP spoken language a common pattern
is a construction like (26b) and (27b) where the subject pronoun doubles the topic, consti-
tuting a left dislocation pattern. This variety has also a categorical sentence with what is
called a topic‐subject,14
where a noun argument raises to the subject position, as in (28c),
which is not possible in EP:
(26) a. O	 Paulo	 chega	 hoje. (EP BP)
the	 Paulo	arrives	 today
“Paulo arrives today.”
b. O Paulo, ele chega hoje. (*EP BP)
the Paulo he arrives today
“Paulo, (he) arrives today.
(27) a. O meu carro está na oficina. (EP BP)
the my car is at‐the mechanic
“My car is at the mechanic.
b. O meu carro,	 ele	 está	 na	 oficina. (*EP BP)
the my car	 it	 is	 at‐the	mechanic
“My car is at the mechanic’s.”
(28) a. O telhado da casa caiu. (EP BP)
the roof of‐the house fell
“The roof of the house collapsed.”
b. A casa caiu o telhado. (*EP BP)
the house fell the roof
“The roof of the house collapsed.”
24  Mary Aizawa Kato and Ana Maria Martins
As for thetic sentences, EP is less restrictive than BP in the availability of the order VS with
verbs that are not of the monoargumental type, in which case BP generally resorts to the
unmarked order SV(X), as in (29) to (31). EP disallows VSO with direct transitive verbs. But VSO
is permitted when the verb is accompanied by an auxiliary, as in (32), the verb selects an indirect
or oblique object, as in (33) and (34), or if the complement is a dative clitic, as in (34) and (35):
(29) a. Chega	 o Paulo hoje. (EP BP)
arrives	the Paulo today
“Paul arrives today.”
b. O Paulo chega hoje. (#EP BP)
the Paulo arrives today
“Paul arrives today.”
(categorical reading of (29b) favored in EP; descriptive reading in BP)
(30) a. Moram muitos imigrantes na periferia de São Paulo. (EP BP
written)
live many immigrants in‐the outskirts of São Paulo
b. Muitos imigrantes moram na periferia de São Paulo. (#EP BP)
Many immigrants live in‐the outskirts of São Paulo
“Many immigrants live on the outskirts of São Paulo”
(categorical reading of (30b) favored in EP)
(31) Correram 100 atletas a maratona, (EP *BP)
ran 100 athletes the marathon
“There were 100 athletes running the marathon.”
(32) a. Está um gato a dormir  no jardim. (EP *BP)
is a cat to sleep  in‐the garden
“There is a cat sleeping in the garden.”
b. Um gato está a dormir/dormindo no jardim. (#EP BP)
a cat is to sleep/sleeping in‐the garden.
“There is a cat sleeping in the garden.”
(categorical reading of (32b) favored in EP)
(33) Chama uma ambulância. Picou uma abelha ao João e ele (EP *BP)
call an ambulance. stung a bee to‐the João and he
é	 alérgico
is	allergic
“Call an ambulance. João was stung by a bee and he is allergic.”
(34) a. Mordeu	 um	 cão	 ao	 gato. (?EP *BP)
bit	 a	 dog	to‐the	 cat
“A dog bit the cat.
(intonation is relevant for acceptability in EP)
b. Mordeu‐lhe  um  cão. (EP *BP)
Bit‐it a dog
c. Um cão mordeu ele. (*EP BP)
a dog bit he
“A dog bit him.”
(Cf. Section 3. above: EP excludes the non-clitic pronoun ele in object position)
(35) Picou‐lhe uma abelha na cara. (EP *PB)
Stung‐him a bee in‐the face
“A bee stung him in his face.”
European Portuguese and Brazilian Portuguese: An Overview on Word Order  25
4.2.  Word order and focus
Another relevant notion for word order issues is the notion of “focus.” Here we distin-
guish two types of focus: information focus and contrastive (or emphatic) focus. In this
section we will deal only with information focus. Contrastive focus will be dealt with in
Section 5.
Information focus can be better understood in contrast to the notion of presupposition or
background. If a sentence is an answer to a question like (36Q) or (37Q), which provides the
discourse context of the answer, it has a part that is presupposed and one which is the
information focus (in bold):
(36) Q: Who does John love?
A: He loves Mary.
(37) Q: Where did John arrive yesterday?
A: Yesterday, he arrived in Paris.
In (36A) the presupposition part is John loves x, and the information focus is Mary. In
(37A) the presupposed part is John arrived yesterday at x, and the information focus is
in Paris.
Information focus has always the nuclear stress of the sentence, which is sentence‐final in
English. In Portuguese, in the two varieties, the nuclear stress is also sentence‐final. This pre-
dicts that answers like (38A) and (39A) in Portuguese will have similar syntactic patterns,
and also be similar to English:
(38) A: Ele ama a Maria.
he loves the Maria
“He loves Maria.”
(39) A: Ontem, ele chegou em/a Paris.15
yesterday he arrived in/to Paris
“Yesterday he arrived in Paris.”
However, the same word‐order pattern can have a distinct presuppositional part, and
consequently a distinct focus depending on the context. A similar answer can be given to
different questions, but depending on the question the focus is a different portion of the
answer (in bold):
(40) Q: O que foi que a Maria cozinhou? (EP BP)
the what was that the Maria cooked
“What did Maria cook?”
A: (Ela) cozinhou  batatas.
she cooked   potatoes
“She cooked potatoes.”
(41) Q: O que foi que a Maria fez? (EP BP)
the what was that the Maria did
“What did Maria do?”
A: (Ela) cozinhou  batatas (EP BP)
she   
cooked  potatoes
“She cooked potatoes.”
26  Mary Aizawa Kato and Ana Maria Martins
(42) Q: Quem foi que cozinhou batatas? (EP BP)
who was that cooked potatoes
“Who cooked potatoes?”
A: Foi a Maria. (EP BP)
(was) the Maria
“It was Maria.”
(43) Q: Quem	 cozinhou	 batatas? (EP BP)
who	cooked	potatoes
“Who cooked potatoes?”
A: Cozinhou (batatas) a   Maria. (EP *BP)
cooked potatoes the  Maria
“Maria cooked potatoes.”
When the wh‐question focuses on the subject, EP has the order V(X)S so that the nuclear
stress falls on the subject. As BP has strong restrictions regarding the type of verb to license
this type of word order, what we find in BP is an answer adjusted to the cleft‐type of question
(cf. (42Q)). Here the copula can be deleted as will be seen in Section 5. Otherwise, BP may
block VS, as in (43). However, if the verb is of the unaccusative type the answer using the
order VS is perfectly natural in BP, as the contrast between (44) with the unaccusative verb
cair and (45) with the transitive ver shows:
(44) Q: Quem caiu? (EP BP)
who fell
“Who fell?”
A1: Caiu uma criança. (EP BP)
fell a child
“A child fell.”
(45) Q: Quem foi que viu um gato? (EP BP)
who was that saw a cat?
“Who saw a cat?”
A1: Viu uma criança. (EP *BP)
saw a child
A2: (Foi) uma criança. (EP BP)
was a child
“It was a child.”
On the other hand, there is no restriction as to the length of the predicate that is preposed to
the subject in EP, though inversion is more easily found when one or more complements
exhibit clitic forms:
(46) Q: Quem	 encontrou	 ontem	 a	 Maria	 no	 shopping? (EP BP)
who	 met	 yesterday	the	Maria	in‐the	mall
“Who met Maria yesterday at the mall?
A1: Encontrou	 ontem	 a	 Maria	 no	 shopping	 a	 Joana.   (EP *BP)
met	 yesterday	the	 Maria	 in‐the	mall	 the	 Joana
A2: Encontrou(‐a) (ontem no shopping) a Joana. (EP *BP)
met-her yesterday in‐the mall the Joana
“It was Joana who met Maria in the mall.”
European Portuguese and Brazilian Portuguese: An Overview on Word Order  27
(47) Q: Quem	 foi	 que	 deu	 um	 iPod	 à/para	 a	 Maria?16
(EP BP)
who	 was	that	 gave	 an	 iPod	 to/for	 the	 Maria
“Who gave an iPod to Maria?”
A1: Deu(‐lho) o Pedro. (EP *BP)
gave‐her‐it the Pedro
“Pedro gave it to her.”
(cf. Section 3: BP also excludes clitic clusters)
A2: Foi  
o Pedro. (EP BP)
was the Pedro
“It was Pedro.”
Information focus does not have to single out a constituent of a sentence, in which case we
would have a narrow focus. It can be the whole sentence, a case often referred to as wide/broad
focus interpretation.
(48) Q: O que se passa?
the what se happens
“What is the matter?”
A: A Maria está a	 cozinhar/cozinhando	 batatas. (EP BP)
the Maria is to	cook/cooking	 potatoes
“Maria is cooking potatoes.”
Notice that the answer in (48A) is a thetic sentence, as the answer describes a situation. In
conclusion, we can say that thetic sentences have always wide focus interpretation and allow
both VS and SV orders (with VS order subject to the constraints described above). Categorical
sentences on the other hand are always SV. Hence word order (concretely, the subject posi-
tion) can be used as a discourse strategy to disambiguate between a categorical/predicative
interpretation and a thetic/presentative interpretation. EP uses this strategy more extensively
than BP because the latter imposes stronger restrictions to subject–verb inversion, which will
be further confirmed in the next sections. For further scrutiny of the interplay between VS
order and (different types of) focus in EP and BP, see Costa and Figueiredo Silva (2006),
which is in line with other authors that relate the scarcer availability of VS in BP with the loss
of pro‐drop (Nascimento 1984; Berlinck 1996; Britto, 2000; Kato and Tarallo 2003).
4.3.  Word order and agreement
Though both EP and BP can have the order VS in thetic and subject‐focus sentences when the
verb is of the monoargumental type (and the verb is unaccusative or existential), there is a
further difference where agreement with the subject is involved. In EP agreement with the
postposed subject is the norm (but see Costa 2001, Carrilho 2003, who describe dialectal EP
varieties without agreement), while in spoken BP the structure merges a null expletive, and
the agreement is with the 3rd person, like with the existential verb haver. In the written
style of BP, however, agreement is found in both orders.
(49) a. Os  ovos chegaram. (EP BP)
the  eggs arrived‐3pl
b. Chegaram os ovos. (*EP BP spoken; also dialectal EP)
arrived‐3pl the eggs
c. Chegou os ovos. (*EP BP spoken; also dialectal EP)
arrived‐3sg the eggs
“The eggs arrived.”
28  Mary Aizawa Kato and Ana Maria Martins
(50) a. Alguns	 clientes	 telefonaram. (EP BP)
some	 clients	called‐3pl
b. Telefonaram alguns clientes. (EP BP written)
called‐3pl some clients
c. Telefonou uns clientes. (*EP BP spoken)
called‐3sg some clients
“Some clients called.”
4.4.  Favorable exceptional contexts for subject–verb inversion
Though the availability of VS order in BP is limited, as discussed in Sections 4.1 and 4.2, it
has been noted that there are certain contexts where such order is favored.
Pinto (1997) discovered that Italian has also restrictions with regard to VS order, but
inversion is favored if the verb selects a locative which appears sentence‐initially.17
(51) a. In questo albergo hanno lavorato molte donne straniere.
in this hotel have worked many women foreign
“In this hotel, there have worked many foreign women.”
b. In questa casa ha abitato Beatrice,
in this house have lived Beatrice
“Beatrice has lived in this house.”
BP can also have locative inversion with verbs that are not unaccusative:
(52) a. Nesta	 casa	 morou	 o	 Jobin. (EP BP)
in‐this	house	lived	 the	Jobin
“Jobin lived in this house.”
b. Nesta obra trabalham imigrantes de toda a America Latina. (EP BP)
in‐this construction work immigrants of all the America Latin
“Immigrants from all over Latin America work on this construction.”
With transitive bridge verbs, in the narrative style, inversion is common in both varieties, but
while in EP subject–verb inversion is obligatory, BP allows both orders:
(53) a. Estou exausto, disse o Pedro. (EP BP)
am exhausted said the Pedro
b. Estou exausto, o Pedro disse. (*EP BP)
am exhausted the Pedro said
“I am exhausted, Pedro said.”
(54) a. Ela já vem, respondeu a mãe. (EP BP)
she already comes answered the mother
b. Ela já vem, a  mãe    
respondeu. (*EP BP)
she already comes the mother answered
“She is coming, the mother answered.”
For Belletti (2001: 70–71), though Italian has restrictions similar to BP, V(X)S can be easily
found in particular registers, as in TV soccer reports, where the predicate describes a predict-
able situation:
European Portuguese and Brazilian Portuguese: An Overview on Word Order  29
(55) Mette la palla sul dischetto del rigore Ronaldo. (Italian)
puts the ball on‐the point of‐the penalty Ronaldo
“Ronaldo puts the ball on the penalty spot.”
Pilati (2006, 2008) shows that BP has sentences similar to the Italian ones, which she calls
“concomitant narrative” sentences, but she analyzes them using Pinto’s frame. According to
the latter author, deictic locatives can trigger inversion even when they are covert. Thus, in the
contrast below, the inverted type is interpreted as having a deictic locative here, or a deictic
temporal now, while in the non‐inverted sentence the locative has indefinite interpretation.
(56) a. È	 entrato	 Dante. (Italian)
is	 entered	Dante (here)
b. Dante è	 entrato. (Italian)
Dante is	 entered (somewhere)
“Dante entered.”
Actually, in many examples given by Pilati, the deictic expression seems to be the temporal
agora.
(57) a. (Agora)	 Tem	 a	 palavra	 a	 senadora	 Heloísa	 Helena. (EP BP)
now	 has	 the	say	 the	senator	 Heloisa	Helena
“The senator Heloísa Helena has the floor.”
b. (Agora) Abre o placar o time do Palmeiras. (EP BP)
Now opens the score the team of‐the Palmeiras.
“The Palmeiras team opens the scoring.”
c. (Agora) Ergue o braço o juiz. (EP BP)
now raises the arm the referee
“The referee raises his arm.”
The generalization seems to be that inversion is possible in the two varieties if some XP
precedes the verb in wide focus thetic sentences, even if this XP is a covert deictic expression.
Still this grammatical option is subject to certain constrains in BP that are not found in EP.
Verb type/class, discourse context and syntactic conditions such as the need to fill in the
canonical subject position in BP seem to be relevant factors.
5.  Word order in contrastive (or emphatic) focus
constructions
5.1.  Stress in information focus and in contrastive focus18
As was seen above, information focus is the constituent that receives the nuclear stress in a
sentence and this is the reason why in Romance languages that dispose of subject‐inversion,
like EP and Spanish, the order V(X)S obtains when the subject is the focus of the sentence:19
(58) Q: a. Quem levou o meu laptop? A: a. Levou [F
O LADRÃO] (EP *BP)
who took the my lap‐top took‐it the thief
b. Quién llevó mi laptop? b. Lo llevó [F
EL LADRÓN] Spanish
who took my lap‐top it took the thief
“Who took my lap‐top?” “The thief took it.”
30  Mary Aizawa Kato and Ana Maria Martins
BP, on the other hand, is often similar to English when the information focus is the subject.
While in the case of non‐subjects, it is always the rightmost element that receives the nuclear
stress, here the primary stress can be on the subject in preverbal position, the leftmost element
in TP. According to Zubizarreta (1998: 20), this is due to the way English, French and German,
and we can add BP, assign the nuclear stress. In these languages, defocalized and functional
categories are (or can be) “metrically invisible” in the application of the nuclear stress rule
(NSR), while in other Romance languages, like Spanish and EP, all phonologically specified
elements are “metrically visible.”
(59) Q: a. Who took my laptop? A: a. [F
THE THIEF ] took it. English
b. Quem levou o meu laptop? b. [F
O LADRÃO ] levou ele. (*EP BP)
Contrary to what happens in English and BP, when the stress falls on the preverbal subject
in EP and Spanish, the interpretation is that of a contrastive focus. This is also true in BP and
English. This means that in English and in BP, without a clear context, focalization on the
subject can be ambiguous between information focus and contrastive focus. (60) provides “a
corrective context,”20
which makes the sentence unambiguous, with O LADRÃO a contras-
tive focus.
(60) a. O	 LADRÃO	 levou	 o	 seu	 laptop,	 e	 não	 o	 seu	 vizinho. (EP BP)
the	thief	 took	 the	your	 laptop	 and	 not	 the	your	neighbor
“The THIEF took your laptop, and not your neighbor.”
b. O MIGUEL adormeceu no carro, e não o Lucas.     (EP BP)
the Miguel fell‐asleep in‐the car and not the Lucas
“Miguel fell asleep in the car, not Lucas.”
5.2.  Focus movement and prosodic prominence
While in the previous subsection we saw cases of prosodic prominence alone to mark con-
trastive focus, in this section we are going to see cases of movement of a constituent to the
left periphery of the sentence, a position where the focus also obtains prosodic prominence
in both EP and BP.21
With regard to the position of the subject, EP has obligatorily the order VS, except in cases
like (64), where a negative element is part of the focus, and when the fronted constituent
includes a focus marker like só “only” or até “even.”22
In BP, on the other hand, VS can occur
optionally with contrastive focus‐movement.
(61) a. DE NOTÍCIAS se faz o nosso mundo. (EP BP)
of news SE makes the our world
b. *DE NOTÍCIAS o nosso mundo se faz. (*EP BP)
of news the our world SE makes
“It’s news that makes up our world.”
(62) a. UMA MELANCIA INTEIRA me comeu aquele bruto. (EP BP)
a watermelon entire me‐dat ate that brute
b. UMA MELANCIA INTEIRA aquele bruto me comeu. (*EP BP)
a watermelon entire that brute me‐dat ate
“A whole watermelon, that’s what that beast ate!”
European Portuguese and Brazilian Portuguese: An Overview on Word Order  31
(63)  a. UMA FORTUNA faturou a nossa barraca. (EP BP)
a fortune made the our stand
b. UMA FORTUNA a nossa barraca faturou. (*EP BP)
a fortune the our stand made
“Our microbusiness earned us a fortune.”
(64) a. NEM SEMPRE ganha o favorito. (EP BP)
not always wins the favorite
b. NEM SEMPRE o favorito ganha. (EP BP)
not always the favorite wins
“The favorite doesn’t always win.”
5.3.  Cleft sentences: a multi‐functional strategy to codify focus23
There is a strategy in Portuguese, and in other Romance languages,24
which marks the focus
syntactically, through the copula, namely the so‐called cleft (or that‐cleft) constructions
and pseudo‐cleft (or wh‐clefts) constructions. Both types can convey information focus
and contrastive focus.
5.3.1.  Information focus
(65) Q: O	 que	 é	que	 o	 ladrão	 levou?
the	 what	 is	that	 the	thief	 took
“What did the thief take?
A1: O	 ladrão	 levou	 [FP
O MEU LAPTOP]. (EP BP)
the	 thief	 took	 the my laptop
“The thief took my lap‐top.”
A2: O	 que	 o	 ladrão	 levou	 foi	 [F
O MEU LAPTOP]. (wh‐cleft)	 (EP BP)
the	 what	 the	 thief	 took	 was	 the my laptop
“What the thief took was my lap‐top. “
A3: Foi	 [F
O MEU LAPTOP]	 que	 o	 ladrão	 levou. (that‐cleft)	 (EP BP)
was	 the my laptop	 that	 the	thief	 took
“It was my laptop that the thief took.”
5.3.2.  Contrastive focus
(66) a. Foi [F
O MEU LAPTOP] o que o ladrão levou, não o teu. (wh‐cleft)
was the my laptop the what the thief took not the yours (EP BP)
“It was my laptop that the thief took, not yours.
b. Foi  [F
O JOÃO]	 quem	 falou,	 não	 o	 Pedro.	(wh‐cleft)	 (EP BP)
was	 the João	 who	 spoke	not	the	Pedro
“It was João who spoke, not Pedro.”
(67) a. Foi [F
O MEU LAPTOP]	 que o ladrão levou, não o teu. (that‐cleft) (EP BP)
was the my laptop that the thief took not the yours
“It was my laptop that the thief took, not yours.”
b. Foi [F
O JOÃO]	 que	 falou,	 não	 o	 Pedro. (that‐ cleft) (EP BP)
was the João	 that	 spoke	not	 the	Pedro
“It was João who spoke, not Pedro.”
32  Mary Aizawa Kato and Ana Maria Martins
In the examples above, the copula is always in initial position, but we can also have other
positions for the copula. With wh‐clefts, we can have: a) the copula in initial position, b) the
copula in second position preceded by the focus and c) the copula in second position pre-
ceded by the wh‐clause. With that‐clefts we can have: a) the copula in initial position and
b) the copula in second position preceded by the focalized element.
(68) a. Sou [F
EU] quem mais trabalha na empresa. (EP BP)
am  I who more works in‐the company
b. [F
EU] sou quem mais trabalha na empresa. (EP BP)
 I am who more works in‐the company
“I am the one who works the most in the company.”
c. Quem mais trabalha nesta empresa sou [F
EU]. (EP BP)
who more works in‐this company am  I
“The one who works the most in the company is me.”
(69) a. Sou [F
EU ] que trabalho mais nesta empresa. (EP BP)
am  I that work more in‐this company
b. [F
EU ] é que trabalho mais nesta empresa. (EP BP)
 I is that work more in‐this company
c. É [F
EU] que trabalho mais nesta empresa. (*EP BP)
is  I that work more in‐this company
“It is me that works the most in this company.”
While the copula agrees with the focus in all varieties of wh‐clefts, with that‐clefts, there is
agreement with the focus only in structures like (69a), but not in structures like (69b), which
illustrates an inverse cleft. In fact, inverse clefts, like (69b), display the invariable 3rd person
singular copula in both EP and BP. On the other hand, (69c) shows that agreement is optional
in non‐inverted clefts in BP but not in EP (which is related to the non‐agreeing pattern of
postverbal subjects commented on in Section 4.3).
Form (69c) is an innovation in BP. The copula underwent grammaticalization in all
that‐clefts, not only in person agreement, but also in tense agreement (consecutio temporum).
This is further followed by the deletion of the copula, as a new step in grammaticalization,
as in (70c).
(70) a. Foram [OS MENINOS] que sairam. (EP BP)
were the boys that left‐3pl
b. É	 [OS	 MENINOS]	 que	 sairam. (*EP BP)
is	the	 boys	 that	left‐3pl
c. [OS	 MENINOS]	 que	 sairam. (*EP BP)
the	 boys	 that	left‐3pl
“[THE BOYS] left.”
6.  Word Order in wh‐questions
6.1. The wh‐parameter
The first issue concerning word order in wh‐questions is the so‐called wh‐parameter,
proposed in Huang (1982), according to which languages are of two types: a) those that move
the wh‐word or expression to the sentential periphery (e.g. English), and those that
leave the wh‐element in‐situ (e.g. Japanese). Cheng and Rooryck (2000) show, however, that
European Portuguese and Brazilian Portuguese: An Overview on Word Order  33
there are languages with optional wh‐movement like French, and Kato (2013) shows that
wh‐movement in BP is also optional.
What is important here is to point out that BP has been showing a great increase in cases
of wh in‐situ since the nineteenth century,25
and, contrary to French, it is free of restrictions.
The description of cases of wh in‐situ in BP will be left out of the present chapter, and we
refer the reader to Kato (2013), in which she proposes that the apparent wh‐in‐situ construc-
tions do have actual wh‐movement of a short type. See also Chapter 15, this volume.
6.2.  Main assumption of this section and the data
It is a strong assumption in this chapter that wh‐questions are contrastive focalization struc-
tures, with the wh‐constituent the focus of the sentence, and should, thus, exhibit a parallel
behavior with declarative contrastive focalization sentences.26
We will show, indeed, that what we saw about word order in declarative sentences in
the previous sections is mirrored in the word order of wh‐questions in contemporary EP
and BP:27
a.	 unambiguous VSX order with fronted wh‐ is found productively in EP (cf. (71a and b)),
but not in BP;
b.	 WhV(X)S with inergatives and transitives are found only in EP (cf. (72a and b));
c.	 WhVS order with unaccusative verbs or the copula is found in both varieties
(cf. (73a–d));
d.	 strict SV is found only in BP (cf (74a and b)).28
(71) a. Que trouxe ele de novo para a construção romanesca? (EP)
what brought he of new for the construction novel
“How did he innovate in the novel genre?”
b. Como consegue ele isto? (EP)
how obtains he this
“How is he able to do/get this?”
(72) a. De que ri    
o   Diamantino? (EP)
of what laughs the Diamantino
“What does Diamantino laugh at?”
b. O que fará o terceiro? (EP)
the what will‐do‐3sg the third
“What will the third one do?”
(73) a. Onde morreram	 as	 esperanças	 e	 as	 ilusões? (EP)
where  died	 the	 hopes	 and	 the	 illusions
“Where have the hopes and the illusions died?”
b. Onde estariam forma e teoria? (EP)
where would‐be‐3pl form and theory
“Where would form and theory be?”
c. Com quem	 surgiu	 esse	 conceito? (BP)
with whom	 appeared	this	 concept
“With whom did this concept appear?”
d. Quando   entra   o   Real? (BP)
when   enters  the  Real
“When does the Real enter?”
34  Mary Aizawa Kato and Ana Maria Martins
(74) a. Com quem ele governará? (BP)
with whom he will‐govern
“Whom will he govern with?”
b. Em quem eu devo   
acreditar? (BP)
in whom I should  believe
“Whom should I believe in?”
6.3.  Wh‐questions from cleft structures
In the same way that focalization can be obtained by complex cleft structures, wh‐questions
have been able to be derived as cleft sentences29
in both varieties since the beginning of the
nineteenth century.30
(75) a. Quando é que falas comigo? (EP nineteenth century)
when is that speaks with‐me
“When is it that you speak with me?”
b. O	 que	 é	 que	 tu	 fizeste? (EP twentieth century)
the	 what	is	 that	you	did
“What is it that you did?”
(76) a. Onde foi que ouvi este nome? (BP nineteenth century)
where was that heard‐1sg this name?
“Where is it that I heard this name?”
b. Como é que chama	 isso? (BP twentieth century)
how is that call	this
“How is this called?”
With the copula in initial position, as in declarative clauses, wh‐questions are found only
in BP children’s speech and in motherese:
(77) a. É quem que ta tocano o violão? (Luana 2; 3.22)
is who that is playing the guitar?
“Who is playing the guitar?”
b. É quem que tá tomano banho? (motherese)
is who that is taking bath
“Who is taking a bath?”
The wh‐questions in (75) and (76), however, when converted to (78), with the copula in
initial position, and with necessary pronominal adjustments, are easily accepted by adult
Brazilians,31
but not by European speakers.
(78) a. É	 quando	 que	 você	 fala	 comigo? (*?EP BP)
is	 when	 that	 you	 speak	with‐me
“When is it that you speak with me?”
b. É	 o	 que	 que	 você	 fez? (*EP BP)
is	the	 what	 that	 you	 did
“What is it that you did?”
c. Foi	onde	 que	 ouvi	 este	 nome? (*?EP BP)
was	where	that	heard‐1sg	this	 name?
“Where did I hear that name?”
d. É	 como	 que	 chama	 isso? (*EP BP)
is	how	 that	call	 this
“How is this called?”
European Portuguese and Brazilian Portuguese: An Overview on Word Order  35
Finally, we will claim, that a pattern like (79b), and those in (80), without the copula,
are in fact “in‐situ” clefts, an idea defended by Noonan (1992) for Quebec French. We
just have to add that the (78) examples, which are canonic clefts, undergo copula dele-
tion, a common phenomenon in Brazilian Portuguese when the copula is in initial
position.32
(79) a. (C’ést) où que t’ás mis les oranges? Quebec French
it is where that you have put the oranges
b. Où que t’á mis les oranges?” (Noonan 1992) Quebec French
where that you have  put the oranges
“Where did you put the oranges?”
(80) a. (É) quando que você fala comigo? (*EP BP)
is when that you speak with‐me
“When is it that you speak with me?”
b. (É) o que que você fez? (*EP BP)
is the what that you did
“What is it that you did?”
c. (Foi) onde que eu ouvi este nome? (*EP BP)
was where that I heard this name?
“Where did I hear this name?”
d. (É) como que chama isso? (*EP BP)
is how that call this
“How is this called?”
7. Conclusion
In this chapter we have chosen constituent order to illustrate important differences between
EP and BP, as word order is central to grammatical systems. We have shown that the two
varieties of Portuguese may radically diverge in word order as is the case with clitic
placement. In other instances, both varieties use the alternation between unmarked (SVO)
and marked constituent orders as a means to signal semantic or pragmatic distinctions
(predicative/descriptive sentences; narrow/wide focus; information/contrastive focus).
But BP is more restrictive than EP as for the availability of subject–verb inversion (VS) and
may use instead strategies that are compatible with the unmarked SVO order. Some of these
strategies are innovations that are presumably parametrically related and put BP in a
diverging path from EP.
Notes
1	 The first author had the support of CNPq (Grant n. 305515/2011‐2017).
2	 The second author had the support of FCT—Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia, under the project
WOChWEL (PTDC/CLE‐LIN/121707/2010).
3	 Verbal morphology plays a role in European Portuguese only with respect to mesoclisis, which
surfaces in enclitic contexts when the verb is inflected in the future or conditional forms.
Mesoclisis is the placement of the clitic pronoun before the sequence formed by the tense
36  Mary Aizawa Kato and Ana Maria Martins
morpheme (present or past) plus the agreement morpheme, as exemplified in (i) below. In this
chapter we will put aside mesoclisis, which is nowadays restricted to formal EP.
(i) Eu pagá‐lo‐ei.
I pay‐it‐acc‐will‐[T(present)+Agr morphemes]
“I will pay for it.”
4	 Only Galician (cf. Álvarez and Xove 2002) and Astur‐Leonese (cf. González i Planas 2007;
Fernández‐Rubiera 2006, 2009) pattern with EP in clitic placement.
5	 A detailed identification and description of the different elements that trigger proclisis in EP
affirmative root sentences is provided in Martins (2013).
6	 The examples are taken from the late twentieth‐century novel by Isaias Pessotti, A Lua da Verdade
(São Paulo: Editora 34. 1997). Similar examples could easily be extracted from newspapers.
7	 We are not implying that variation between proclisis and enclisis as displayed in current
written BP can be purely aleatory. Tendencies dependent on textual types or individual pref-
erences can certainly be devised by quantitative analyses. We are not aware, however, of any
published investigation on this topic (except for some occasional observations based on
limited data).
8	 On the prefixal properties of PB clitics, see Nunes (2007: 28). The author shows that BP allows
nouns to be derived from a string of proclitic and verb (respectively, se and toca/manca in (i)a
below), as shown in (i)b and c, where the nouns in italics are derived from the idiomatic verbal
expressions in (i)a, that include the reflexive clitic se.
(i) a. O João não se toca se   manca.
the João not SE touch/ SE   
see
“João is not aware of how inconvenient he is.”
b. O João precisa de um  setocômetro.
the João needs of a   setocômetro
“João needs an instrument to measure how inconvenient he is.”
c. O João tá	 precisando	 tomar	 semancol.
the João is	needing	 to‐take	
semancol
“João needs to take medicine against being inconvenient.”
9	 Luís Fernando Veríssimo, Novas Comédias da Vida Privada. Porto Alegre: L&PM. 1997 [13th edn.].
p. 176.
10	 This is so even for the EP dialects that allow interpolation, which Magro (2007) analyzes as metathesis,
in the sense of Harris and Halle 2005.
11	 On word order in European Portuguese, see Duarte (1987, 1997), Ambar (1992), Martins (1994,
2010), Barbosa (1995, 2006, 2009), Costa (1998, 2001, 2004), among others; for Brazilian
Portuguese, see Berlink (2000), Kato (2000), Kato and Tarallo (2003), Viotti (2007), Pilati (2007),
among others.
12	 These notions are borrowed from Kuroda (1965, 1972), who uses them to distinguish between the
morphemes ‐wa and ‐ga in Japanese.
13	 Cf. Martins (1994) on the categorical and thetic distinction in EP, and Kato (1989) and Britto (1998)
on the same distinction in BP.
14	 See Kato (1989), Lunguinho (2006), Duarte and Kato (2013), among others, on these
constructions.
15	 BP and EP display different prepositions in the locative complement, namely em “in” in BP and a
“to” in EP.
16	 EP displays preposition a, BP preposition para.
17	 Locative inversion is not restricted to Romance languages, as can be seen in English and in
Chichewa (Cf. Bresnan and Kanerva 1989).
(i) Among the guests sat my friend Rose.
(ii) Ku mu‐dzi ku‐li chi‐tsime.
“In the city is a well.”
European Portuguese and Brazilian Portuguese: An Overview on Word Order  37
18	 For contrastive focus in EP see Costa and Martins (2011) and for BP see Kato and Ribeiro (2009).
19	 Examples taken from Kato and Ribeiro (2009).
20	 For Bianchi, Bocci, and Cruschina (2013) contrastive focus involves different notions depending on
the context: (a) corrective context, (b) mirative context (unexpected or surprising), (c) contrastive
context.
21	 Examples taken from Costa and Martins (2011), except (63a), which is taken from Naro and Votre
(1999).
22	 See details in Costa and Martins (2011).
23	 Examples based on Kato and Ribeiro (2009). See also Modesto (2001), Mioto (2006, 2008) and
Resenes (2009) on clefts in Brazilian Portuguese.
24	 Wh‐clefts are more widely found in languages than it‐clefts (cf. Lambrecht 2001).
25	 See Lopes‐Rossi (1996) and Kato and Mioto (2008) for quantitative data.
26	 This hypothesis was raised and confirmed in Kato and Ribeiro (2009) through diachronic facts.
27	 The empirical description and the examples on contemporary EP and BP are from Kato and Mioto
(2008), who used for EP the corpora http:/
/acdc.linguateca.pt/acesso/, the subcorpus Natura‐
Público, and for BP the NILC‐São Carlos. See also Ambar (1992) for an exhaustive description
of EP.
28	 Ambar (1992) predicts, however, that d‐linked wh‐expressions may have SV order.
29	 Lopes‐Rossi (1996) and Kato and Ribeiro (2009) show that wh‐clefts as wh‐questions are older, and
that that‐clefts appear only in the late eighteenth century, and are part of the vernacular in both
varieties today.
30	 The diachronic facts and examples are from Duarte (1987), Lopes‐Rossi (1996), Kato and Duarte
(2002) and Kato and Ribeiro (2009). The contemporary facts on EP are confirmed in Ambar (1988),
Ambar and Veloso (2001), and Barbosa (2001).
31	 Such patterns are not found in the written corpus used by Kato and Mioto (2008). They may be
present, however, in more recent spoken corpora.
32	 See, for instance, (i) and (ii), apud Kato (2007):
(i) (É) lindo o seu cabelo.
is beautiful the your hair
“Your hair is beautiful.”
(ii) (É) um	gênio	 o	 seu	 filho.
is a	 genius	 the	your	son
“Your son is a genius.”
References
Álvarez, Rosario and Xosé Xove (2002). Gramática
da Lingua Galega. Vigo: Galaxia.
Ambar, Manuela (1992). Para uma Sintaxe da
Inversão Sujeito‐Verbo em Português. Lisboa:
Edições Colibri.
Ambar, Manuela and Rita Veloso (2001). On the
nature of wh‐phrases, word order and wh‐in‐situ:
Evidence from Portuguese, French, Hungarian
and Tetum. In Y. D’hulst, Johan Rooryck and Jan
Schroten (eds.), Romance languages and linguistic
theory 1999: Selected papers from “Going Romance”
1999, Leiden, 9–11 December 1999. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins, pp. 1–38.
Barbosa, Pilar (1995). Null Subjects. Ph.D.
dissertation, MIT.
Barbosa, Pilar (2001). On inversion in
wh‐questions in Romance. In Aafke Hulk
and Jean‐Yves Pollock (eds.), Subject
inversion in Romance and the theory of
universal grammar. Oxford: Oxford
University Press, pp. 20–59.
Barbosa, Pilar (2006). Ainda a questão dos
sujeitos pré‐verbais em Português Europeu:
uma resposta a Costa (2001). D.E.L.T.A., 22 (2),
pp. 345–402.
Barbosa, Pilar (2009). Two kinds of subject pro.
Studia Linguistica, 63 (1), pp. 2–58.
Belletti, Adriana (2001). “Inversion” as
focalization. In: Aafke Hulk and Jean‐Yves
Pollock (eds.), Subject inversion in Romance and
38  Mary Aizawa Kato and Ana Maria Martins
the theory of universal grammar. Oxford: Oxford
University Press, pp. 60–90.
Berlinck, Rosane Andrade (1996). La Position du
sujet en Portugais: etude dichronique des
varietés brésilienne et européene. Ph.D.
dissertation, Leuven, Katholiecke Universiteit.
Bianchi, Valentina, G. Bocci, and S. Cruschina
(2013). Focus fronting and its implicatures.
Paper presented at Going Romance 2013,
University of Amsterdam.
Bresnan, Joan and Jonni M. Kanerva (1989).
Locative inversion in Chichewa: A case study
of factorization in grammar. Linguistic Inquiry,
20 (1), pp. 1–50.
Britto, Helena (2000). Syntactic codification of
categorical and thetic judgments in Brazilian
Portuguese. In Mary A. Kato and Esmeralda V.
Negrão (eds.), Brazilian Portuguese and the null
subject parameter. Frankfurt: Vervuert:
Iberoamericana, pp. 195–222.
Campos, Héctor (1999). Passive constructions
and partitive case checking in Spanish. In Jon
A. Franco Alazne Landa, and Juan Martín
(eds.), Grammatical analyses in Basque and
Romance linguistics: Papers in honor of Mario
Saltarelli. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 23–34.
Carneiro, Zenaide (2005). Cartas da Bahia: Um
Estudo Lingüístico‐filológico. Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Campinas,
São Paulo.
Carrilho, Ernestina (2003). Ainda a “unidade e
diversidade da língua portuguesa”: a sintaxe.
In Ivo Castro and Inês Duarte (eds.), Razões e
Emoção: Miscelânea de estudos em homenagem a
Maria Helena Mira Mateus. Lisboa: INCM,
pp. 163–178.
Cheng, Lisa L.S. and Johan Rooryck (2000).
Licensing wh‐in‐situ. Syntax, 3 (1), pp.1–19.
CORDIAL‐SIN: Syntax‐oriented corpus of
Portuguese Dialects. http://www.clul.ul.pt .
Costa, João (1998). Word order variation: A
constraint‐based approach. The Hague: Holland
Academic Graphics.
Costa, João (2001). Postverbal subjects and
agreement in accusative contexts in European
Portuguese. Linguistic Review, 18, pp. 1–17.
Costa, João (2004). Subject positions and the
interfaces: The case of European Portuguese.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Costa, João and M. Cristina Figueiredo Silva
(2006). On the (in)dependence relations
between syntax and pragmatics. In Valéria
Molnar and Susanne Winkler (eds.), The
architecture of focus. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter,
pp. 83–104.
Costa, João and Ana Maria Martins (2011). On
focus movement in European Portuguese.
Probus, 23 (2), pp. 217–245.
Costa, João, Alexandra Fiéis and Maria Lobo
(2014). Input variability and late acquisition:
clitic misplacement in European Portuguese.
Lingua, 161, pp. 10–26.
Domingos, Manuel (2010). A colocação dos
pronomes clíticos no português (oral) de
Angola (POA). Trabalho do seminário de
Linguística Comparada: Tópicos de Gramática
do Português numa perspectiva comparativa.
Unpublished manuscript. Faculdade de Letras
da Universidade de Lisboa.
Duarte, Inês (1987). A Construção de
Topicalização na Gramática do Português.
Ph.D. dissertation, University of Lisbon.
Duarte, Inês (1997). Ordem de palavras: sintaxe e
estrutura discursiva. In A. M. Brito, A.M., F.
Oliveira, I. Pires de Lima and R. M. Martelo
(eds.), Sentido que a Vida Faz: Estudos para Óscar
Lopes. Porto: Campo das Letras, pp. 581–592.
Duarte, Inês and Gabriela Matos (2000). Romance
clitics and the minimalist program. In Costa,
João (ed.), Portuguese syntax: New comparative
studies. Oxford: Oxford University Press,
pp. 116–142.
Duarte, M. Eugenia and Mary A. Kato (2013).
The lack of lexical expletives in Brazilian
Portuguese. Paper presented at the GTTG/
ANPOLL Meeting, University of São Paulo.
Fernández‐Rubiera, Francisco J. (2006). Clitic
placement in Asturian: Evidence for a syntactic
FocusP interaction. Georgetown University
Working Papers in Linguistics 2006, pp. 89–126.
Fernández‐Rubiera, Francisco J. (2009). Clitics at
the Edge: Clitic Placement in Western Iberian
Languages. Ph.D.Dissertation, Georgetown
University.
González i Planas, Francesc (2007). Sintaxis de
los clíticos pronominales en asturleonés. Ianua
Revista Philologica Romanica 7, pp.15–35.
Harris, James and Morris Halle (2005).
Unexpected plural inflections in Spanish:
Reduplication and metathesis. Linguistic
Inquiry, 36 (2), pp. 195–22.
Huang, C. T. James (1982). Move WH in a
language without WH movement. The
Linguistic Review 1, pp. 369–416.
Justino, Víctor Mércia (2010). Estudo Comparativo
dos Padrões de Colocação dos Pronomes Clíticos
nos Discursos Oral e Escrito do Português de
Moçambique. MS. University of Lisbon.
Kato, Mary A. (1989). Sujeito e Tópico: duas
categorias em sintaxe? Cadernos de Estudos
Linguísticos, 17, pp. 109–132.
European Portuguese and Brazilian Portuguese: An Overview on Word Order  39
Kato, Mary A. (2000). The partial pro‐drop nature
and the restricted VS order in Brazilian
Portuguese. In M. A. Kato and E. V. Negrão
(eds.), Brazilian Portuguese and the null subject
parameter. Frankfurt: Vervuert/
IberoAmericana, pp. 223–258.
Kato, Mary A. (2007). Free and dependent small
clauses in Brazilian Portuguese. DELTA, 23,
pp. 85–111.
Kato, Mary A. (2013). Deriving “wh‐in‐situ”
through movement in Brazilian Portuguese.
In V. A. Camacho‐Taboada, A. Gimenez‐
Fernancez, J. Martin‐Gonzales, and M.
Reyes‐Tejedor (eds.), Information structure
and agreement. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 175–191.
Kato, Mary A. and Carlos Mioto (2008). A multi‐
evidence study of European and Brazilian
Portuguese wh‐questions. In S. Kepser and M.
Reis (eds), Linguistic evidence: Empirical,
theoretical, and computational perspectives. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter, pp. 307–328.
Kato, Mary A. and Ilza Ribeiro (2009). Cleft
sentences from Old Portuguese to Modern
Brazilian Portuguese. In A. Dufter and D.
Jacob (eds.), Focus and background in Romance
languages. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 123–154.
Kato, Mary A. and Fernando Tarallo (2003). The
loss of VS syntax in Brazilian Portuguese. In B.
Schliebe Lange, I. Koch and K. Jungbluth
(eds.), Dialogue between schools: Sociolinguistics,
conversational analysis and generative theory in
Brazil. Münster: Nodus Publicationen, Klaus
D. Ditz, pp. 101–129.
Lambrecht, Knud (2001). A frame for the analysis
of cleft constructions. Linguistics, 39 (3), pp.
463–516.
Lopes‐Rossi, M. Aparecida (1996). A Sintaxe
Diacrônica das Interrogativas‐Q do Português.
Ph.D. dissertation, University of Campinas.
Lunguinho, Marcus V. (2006). Partição de
constituintes no português brasileiro:
características sintáticas. In Denise Silva (ed.),
Língua, gramática e discurso. Goiânia: Cânone
Editorial, pp.133–150.
Magro, Catarina (2007). Clíticos: Variações sobre
o tema. Ph.D. dissertation, University of
Lisbon.
Mapasse, Ermelinda Lúcia Atanasio (2005).
Clíticos Pronominais em Português de
Moçambique. M.A. thesis, University of
Lisbon.
Martins, Ana Maria (1994). Clíticos na História
do Português. Ph.D. dissertation, University of
Lisbon.
Martins, Ana Maria (2010). Constituent order in
simple declarative clauses Relatório do
seminário de Linguística Comparada: Tópicos
de Gramática do Português numa perspectiva
comparativa, apresentado a provas públicas
para obtenção do título académicos de
agregado no ramo de Linguística. Unpublished
Report. University of Lisbon, pp. 103–125.
Martins, Ana Maria (2011). Clíticos na história do
português à luz do teatro vicentino. Estudos de
Lingüística Galega, 3, pp. 55–83.
Martins, Ana Maria (2013). A posição dos
pronomes pessoais clíticos. In E. Paiva Raposo,
M. F. Bacelar do Nascimento, M. A. Mota, L.
Segura, and A. Mendes (eds) Gramática do
Português. Lisboa: Fundação Calouste
Gulbenkian, pp. 2231–2302.
Mioto, Carlos (2006). Focus and clefting. Paper
presented at the Workshop on Formal
Linguistics. University of Florianópolis.
Mioto, Carlos (2008). Pseudo‐clivadas
reduzidas em espanhol caribenho e em
português brasileiro. Paper presented at the
IIIrd Workshop on Romania Nova.
Montevideo.
Modesto, Marcello (2001). As construções clivadas
no português do Brasil: relações entre interpretação
focal, movimento sintático e prosódia. São Paulo:
Humanitas.
Naro, Anthony and Sebastião Votre (1999).
Discourse motivations for linguistic
regularities: verb / subject order in spoken
Brazilian Portuguese. Probus, 11, pp. 76–100.
Nascimento, M. 1984. Sur la posposition du sujet
dans le Portugais du Brésil. Ph.D. dissertation,
Université de Paris VIII.
Newell, Heather (2005). A late adjunction
solution to bracketing paradoxes. Proceedings
of the 35th annual meeting of the North East
Linguistic Society (NELS).
Noonan, Maire (1992). Case and syntactic geometry.
Ph.D. dissertation, McGill University.
Nunes, Jairo (2007). Triangulismos e a sintaxe do
português brasileiro. In Ataliba T. de Castilho,
M. Aparecida Torres‐Morais, Ruth E.
Vasconcellos Lopes, and Sônia M. Lazzarini
Cyrino (eds.) Descrição, História e Aquisição do
Português Brasileiro. São Paulo: Pontes/
FAPESP, pp. 25–33.
Pagotto, Emílio G. (1992). A Posição dos Clíticos
em Português: Um Estudo Diacrônico. M.A.
thesis, University of Campinas.
Pessotti, Isaias (1997). A Lua da Verdade. São
Paulo: Editora 34.
Pilati, Eloisa (2006). Aspectos sintáticos e
semânticos das orações com ordem
40  Mary Aizawa Kato and Ana Maria Martins
verbo‐sujeito no português do Brasil. Ph.D.
dissertation. University of Brasília.
Pilati, Eloisa (2008). Aspectos sintáticos e semânticos
das orações com ordem Verbo‐Sujeito no Português
do Brasil: o percurso de uma pesquisa. Brasília:
Ceell.
Pinto, Manuela (1997). Licensing and interpretation
of inverted subjects in Italian. Ph.D. dissertation,
University of Utrecht.
Resenes, Mariana S. (2009). Sentenças pseudo‐
clivadas do português brasileiro. M.A. thesis,
University of Florianópolis.
Ribeiro, Ilza and Mary A. Kato (2009).
Focalização de predicados no português
arcaico e moderno. In V. Aguilera (ed.), Para a
História do Português Brasileiro, Tomo I: Vozes,
Veredas, Voragens. Londrina: Eduel,
pp. 369–392.
Rodygina, Olga Vadimovna (2009). Colocação
dos pronomes átonos nas orações infinitivas
no Português Europeu. M.A. thesis, University
of Minho.
Tarallo, Fernando (1983). Relativization Strategies
in Brazilian Portuguese. Ph.D. dissertation.
University of Pennsylvania.
Tarallo, Fernando (1990). Tempos Lingüísticos.
Itinerário Histórico da Língua Portuguesa. São
Paulo: Ática.
Vigário, Marina (2003). The prosodic word in
European Portuguese. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Villalva, Alina (2000). Estruturas Morfológicas:
Unidades e Hierarquias nas Palavras do Português.
Lisboa: Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian/
Ministério da Ciência e Tecnologia.
Zubizarreta, M. Luiza (1998). Prosody, focus and
word order. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
Portuguese is the sixth most spoken language in the world and the official language of eight
countries: Brazil, Portugal, Angola, Mozambique, Guinea‐Bissau, Sao Tome and Principe,
Cape Verde, and East Timor, with more than 200 million native speakers. The distribution of
the Portuguese language in the world today reflects the development of Portuguese colonial
control from the sixteenth to the twentieth century and migration trends. Throughout its 500
years of expansion, the Portuguese language came into contact with hundreds of very differ-
ent languages, in equally diverse situations. From these diverse contact conditions, profound
changes resulted, such as those that brought about the Portuguese creoles of Africa and Asia.
As a less radical result of linguistic contact, the popular varieties of Brazilian Portuguese
have developed. In addition, a wide range of contact situations involving Portuguese gave
rise to the emergence of varieties of Portuguese spoken as L2 in Africa and Asia, in addition
to bilingual varieties in communities on the borders of Portuguese and Spanish‐speaking
countries, both in South America and in Europe. This chapter provides an overview of the
multiplicity of contact situations involving Portuguese and their linguistic consequences.2
2.  The emergence of pidgin and creole languages
and the process of irregular language transmission
In most cases, the effects of language contact are observed mainly in lexical borrowings,
without direct effects on the grammar of the languages involved. However, massive and
abrupt language contact sometimes gives rise to entirely new languages, called pidgins and
creoles. The majority of such languages known today were formed during European colonial
expansion, in specific sociological contexts such as (1) agricultural export activities employ-
ing slave or forced labor, that were established in America, Africa, Asia and Oceania; (2)
communities of runaway slaves, called quilombos, palenques, or maroons inAfrica andAmerica;
(3) trading posts in European strongholds in Africa, Asia and Oceania. Typically, the process
of pidginization and creolization occurred in asymmetric situations, wherein a dominant
European minority imposed its language upon a majority of speakers of different and
mutually unintelligible languages.
Portuguese in Contact
Ana Maria Carvalho and
Dante Lucchesi1
3
42  Ana Maria Carvalho and Dante Lucchesi
There is extensive discussion as to whether pidgins and creoles have a special status
among human languages.3
While most languages have evolved gradually over many
generations, the formation of pidgins and creoles may occur within two or three genera-
tions. In the initial contact situation, this process involves the functional expansion and
grammaticalization of a small vocabulary from the dominant language (the lexifier lan-
guage) to form a second language code of interethnic communication. From this process, a
number of typical structural features emerge. A creole speech community forms when
children develop their native language from the model of L2 (pre‐pidgin or pidgin) spoken
by adults. Depending on the sociohistorical context, the result of this process of language
development may be more, or less, radical. In the next section, we present a theoretical
perspective which contemplates both types, and which captures the nature of historical
language contact in Brazil.
2.1.  Irregular language transmission
The notion of irregular language transmission (ILT) as a gradual process seeks to develop a
broader model for linguistic change induced by language contact (Lucchesi 2008, 2012).
Whereas massive contact between languages can lead to the formation of a creole language,
with a qualitatively different grammar from that of the target language, it can also result in
the formation of varieties of the dominant language with only some of the structural features
of creole languages, characterizing a light type of irregular language transmission.4
In both cases, there is a need for the restoration of grammatical structures lost in the initial
contact situation, resulting from incomplete language acquisition of the lexifier language by
adult speakers of the dominated groups. Hence, it is the intensity of erosion of the dominant
language grammar that determines the degree of grammatical restructuring of the emergent
linguistic variety. In typical creolization situations, communication happens through a
restricted vocabulary from the dominant language, virtually devoid of grammatical structure,
called a pre‐pidgin (Siegel 2008). Where the dominated groups speak mutually unintelligible
languages, the pre‐pidgin becomes used in communicative functions beyond the restricted
relationship between dominators and dominated. This functional expansion triggers
grammatical restructuring engendering the pidgin language. As speakers of the dominated
groups have very limited access to grammatical models of the dominant language, they
resort to grammatical structures of their native languages to grammaticalize the pre‐pidgin,
a process called relexification (Lefebvre 1998) or substrate transfer (Siegel 2008). To the extent
that children born in the contact circumstances are acquiring pre‐pidgin or pidgin as their
first language, creolization (nativization) occurs.
The grammatical restructuring that distinguishes the formation of pidgins and creoles
occurred in very specific sociohistorical situations of language contact. Nonetheless, the
conditions fostered by European colonialism in America, Africa, Asia and Oceania varied
greatly with respect to their social, ethnic, and demographic variables. Thus, in many situa-
tions of massive language contact, pidgins and creoles did not develop, yet this does not
mean that the varieties of English, Portuguese, and Spanish that developed are devoid of
structural changes resulting from the imposition of colonial languages upon millions of
speakers of other languages.
What differentiates light ILT from the cases considered typical of creolization is the greater
access of the speakers of the dominated groups to models of the target language. This greater
access inhibits the embryonic processes of grammaticalization and transfer of the substrate,
essential for development of a pidgin or creole grammar. However, the process that is shared
with pidginization and creolization is the morphological simplification affecting primarily
the grammatical mechanisms that either have no informational value or have a more abstract
semantic value. Hence, the difference between the two cases resulting from contact is merely
Portuguese in Contact  43
quantitative. In radical ILT yielding pidginization/creolization those mechanisms would be
virtually excluded, whereas lighter irregular language transmission would yield a broad
complex of variation in the use of these mechanisms, without their exclusion.
3. Brazil
The first effective Portuguese colonization of Brazil occurred in the region of São Paulo, in
1532, and was based on the enslavement of local indigenous people. The small contingent of
settlers, overwhelmingly men, gave rise to an extensive process of miscegenation, which
resulted in the formation of a Mameluco mestizo society,5
characterized by the predominant
use of a restructured variety of Tupi, called língua geral. The diglossia between the língua geral
and the Portuguese of the colonists, typical of São Paulo Society in the sixteenth and seven-
teenth centuries, can be seen as the initial manifestation of the sociolinguistic polarization of
Brazil.
Following the expulsion of the French from São Luís, in 1615, a variety of Tupinambá,
known as Nheengatu (“good language”), came to predominate in the Portuguese colonial
society established initially in Maranhão. Subsequently, the Portuguese settlers spread this
language to the Amazon in their search for spices and indigenous slaves, and Nheengatu
was adopted by Amazonian indigenous people who spoke quite distinct languages, such
as the Arawak and Carib languages. Nheengatu nativized among these peoples and has
survived as the mother tongue in some Upper Amazon localities. In the more dynamic
regions of Portuguese America in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries – such as the areas
surrounding the towns of Olinda and Salvador, in northeastern Brazil – the indigenous
population was quickly decimated and replaced by large contingents of African slaves.
Between the sixteenth and nineteenth centuries, the slave trade introduced some ten mil-
lion Africans to the Americas. On the linguistic level, the African contribution is highlighted
by the emergence of more than thirty creole languages, including Haitian (French‐lexified),
Palenquero (Colombia, Spanish‐lexified), and Saramaccan and Sranan (Suriname, English‐
lexified). It is estimated that Brazil was the destination of almost 40 percent of the Atlantic
slave trade, amounting to some four million individuals. Until the mid‐nineteenth century,
approximately 70 percent of Brazil’s population consisted of Indians, Africans, and their
descendants—that is, only one‐third of Brazilian society were native speakers of Portuguese
born from parents with the same mother tongue. As of the seventeenth century, the presence
of Africans and their descendants grew significantly, constituting the workforce of three
principal activities: sugar‐cane, tobacco and cotton plantations in the northeast of Brazil
between the seventeenth and nineteenth centuries; mining of gold and precious stones in
Minas Gerais in the eighteenth century; and coffee plantations of southeast Brazil in the
nineteenth century. By 1850, Africans and their offspring represented approximately 65 percent
of Brazil’s total population. Although the slave trade ended in 1850, slavery was abolished
only in 1888. Until the early twentieth century, the vast majority of people of African origin
lived in the countryside and was illiterate (Lucchesi 2009).
In the face of these facts, there is strong evidence for the influence of language contact in
the formation of the variety of Portuguese spoken by blacks and mulattos who dominated
the base of the Brazilian social pyramid (Mattos and Silva 2004). Historic records (especially
literary texts) of the speech of Africans and crioulos in the nineteenth century reveal traits of
morphological simplification characteristic of pidgin and creole languages, notably the lack
of articles, verbal inflection, nominal number, gender agreement, and pronominal case
inflection (Alkmim 2008). Consequently, one may conclude that the historical predecessor of
present Popular Brazilian Portuguese underwent a process of ILT of a light type, as described
in the previous section.6
44  Ana Maria Carvalho and Dante Lucchesi
Throughout the twentieth century, a significant part of the rural population of African
descent migrated to the large cities, entering the consumer market and the world of literacy,
albeit precariously. Thus, the population of Brazilian cities multiplied, highways were con-
structed throughout the country and a wide network of public schools was established. This
produced significant sociolinguistic changes: the speech of the ruling classes began to distance
itself from the model of Portugal, being influenced by linguistic changes from below, whereas
the speech of the great mass of descendants of African slaves (or of Brazilian Indians, depending
on the region) became increasingly influenced by linguistic changes from above. Thus, a
linguistic leveling occurred with an increasing influence from the so‐called Brazilian educated
urban standard (norma culta) in all regions of the country. In addition to the socioeconomic
factors cited here, the rapid growth of the mass media acted decisively in implementing this
linguistic leveling (Lucchesi 2001 and 2009).
This entire process alleviated the ethnic character of the linguistic differences between the
upper and lower classes, weakening the effects of changes triggered by historical language
contact. However, the effects of those changes still divide the Brazilian sociolinguistic scene.
The most notable reflex of this partition is the massive variation that affects the rules of
nominal and verbal agreement in popular speech (eg, meus filho chegou cedo “my (pl) son (sing)
arrived (sing) early” instead of meus filhos chegaram cedo “my (pl) children (pl) arrived (pl)
early).” The current maintenance of these characteristics resulting from language contact is
due to the dependent and late character of capitalist development in Brazil and the extensive
exploitation of the working classes. As such, these characteristics of popular speech constitute
strong social stigma, and lack of morphosyntactic agreement is a linguistic feature, which is
used to discriminate against individuals from the lower Brazilian socioeconomic classes.
4. Africa
Unlike Brazil, in Africa the indigenous languages were preserved. Only a minority speak
Portuguese, mostly as an L2, concentrated in urban centers. In contrast, the island countries
Cape Verde and São Tomé and Príncipe were populated by a minority of Portuguese colo-
nists and a majority of enslaved Africans. In this close contact, creolized varieties of
Portuguese became the native languages of increasingly mixed local populations. A mixed
scenario originated in Guinea‐Bissau, with the preservation of native African languages and
the emergence of a creole which acts as a lingua franca in the cities.
4.1.  African varieties of Portuguese
The presence of the Portuguese and the dissemination of the Portuguese language in Angola
was very limited, even after 1576, when the Portuguese ruled Luanda and extended their
domainintotheinterior.Untilthemid‐eighteenthcentury,theAfrican‐Portugueseadministrative
elite used Portuguese only as their L2. Even though, in the second half of the eighteenth century,
Portugal sought to hinder the Africanization of the local elite, the situation changed little, until
the first decades of the twentieth century (Vansina 2001). It was only during the Salazar dicta-
torship (1928–1974) that the Portuguese presence in Angola increased, with the new policy
requiring that Angolans be fully fluent in Portuguese in order to participate in public life. The
effect was minimal. The proportion of settlers within the entire Angolan population was less
than 1 per cent by 1940, increasing to some 5 percent in the 1970s (Bender 2004: 71). With political
independence in 1975, this number dropped dramatically.
Currently, only a very small sector of the Angolan elite speaks Portuguese as its mother
tongue, in a variety very similar to that of Portugal. Over 90 percent of the population is
native in one of the approximately forty Bantu languages spoken in the country, the main
Portuguese in Contact  45
ones being Kimbundo, Kikongo, and Umbundo. Some 20 to 30 percent of the population,
mostly young people living in coastal cities, uses Portuguese as a second language. This
Vernacular Angolan Portuguese displays alterations due to the influence of the Bantu substrate
(Inverno 2009). Some of these characteristics are common to popular Brazilian Portuguese,
such as variable nominal and verbal agreement and loss of pronominal case inflection (e.g.,
encontrou eu ontem “((s)he) met I yesterday” instead of encontrou‐me ontem “((s)he) met me
yesterday”). However, unlike Brazilian Portuguese, Angolan Portuguese also displays
variable gender agreement in the noun phrase (um pessoa “a (MASC) person (FEM)” instead
of uma pessoa “a (FEM) person (FEM”)) and variable verbal agreement with the 1st person
singular (e.g., eu trabalha “I (p1) work (p3)” for eu trabalho “I (p1) work (p1)”).
The history of the diffusion of Portuguese in Mozambique is very similar to that of Angola.
Until the twentieth century, the presence of the Portuguese was minimal. Despite the arrival of
some 140,000 settlers in the 1950s and 1960s, the proportion of Portuguese within the
Mozambican population has always been less than 2 percent (Ribeiro 1981: 390). Nevertheless,
as inAngola, Portuguese was retained as an official language and the language of national unity
after the independence in 1975. With the expansion of public education and Portuguese being
the language of instruction, the proportion of native Portuguese speakers rose from 1.2 per-
cent in 1980 to 6.5 percent in 1997. The vast majority of the population is composed of native
speakers of one of the more than twenty Bantu languages spoken in the country, such as Makua,
spoken by roughly 26 percent of the population, and Xangana, spoken by about 11 percent.
Portuguese is the L2 of almost 40 percent of the population, 75 percent of which is urban
(Gonçalves 2010). In addition to the morphological simplification resulting from imperfect
L2 acquisition similar to that observed in Angola, Mozambique Portuguese (MP) displays a
clear Bantu influence, notably in the argument structure of the verb (Gonçalves 2010: 46–55):
1.  Intransitive verbs in European Portuguese (EP) receive two arguments: Ela nasceu dois
filhos na Suazilândia (MP) “(lit.) She was born two children in Swaziland” instead of Dois
filhos dela nasceram na Suazilândia (EP) “Two of her children were born in Swaziland.”
2.	 Suppression of prepositions governing the verbal complement in EP: O detetive desconfiou
um indivíduo (PM) “The detective suspected an individual” rather than O detetive descon-
fiou de um indivíduo (EP) “(lit.)The detective suspected of an individual.”
3.	 Double object constructions instead of a prepositional dative: entregou o emissário a carta
(MP) “(S)he) handed the emissary the letter” rather than entregou a carta ao emissário (EP)
“(S)he) handed the letter to the emissary.”
4.	 Passive constructions unacceptable in EP: Aaldeia foi evoluída por aquele rapaz (MP) Literally
“The village was evolved by that boy.”
A growing number of studies compare the morphosyntactic aspects common to popular
Brazilian Portuguese, Angolan Portuguese, and Mozambican Portuguese, aiming to define
more precisely how language contact has affected the grammar of Portuguese, in situations
other than those of creolization on the west coast of Africa.
4.2.  Portuguese creoles in Africa
In Africa, contact situations involving Portuguese resulted in creolization in the Cape Verde
archipelago and the islands of São Tomé, Príncipe, and Anobom. On the continent, creoliza-
tion occurred in Guinea‐Bissau, which may be explained in part by the close relationship
between this country and Cape Verde until their independence in 1975. Some scholars assign
a common origin to Cape Verdean creole and the creole of Guinea‐Bissau (Kihm 1994: 3–8).
Cape Verdean creole, comprising two major varieties, barlavento “windward” and sotavento
“leeward,” and the creole of Guinea‐Bissau can be considered lighter creoles, due to the lack
46  Ana Maria Carvalho and Dante Lucchesi
of grammatical restructuring they display relative to Portuguese. Grammatical restructuring
that characterizes the Atlantic creoles, such as verb serialization, generally did not take place.
The light creolization of these languages is also evident in the retention, although with a
different semantics, of the verbal suffix –va, expressing habitual past in Portuguese, in
addition to the typical preverbal tense/mood/aspect (TMA) particles, which these creoles
also exhibit. At the same time, Cape Verdean and Guinea‐Bissau creoles do not display
­
subject–verb agreement inflection as well as gender and number agreement in noun phrases,
a commonly observed feature of creoles.
A more radical creolization occurred on the island of São Tomé, yielding a creole which
later branched into four creoles (Ferraz 1979; Hagemeijer 2009), namely: Santomé (or Forro ),
which developed among the mestizo population of São Tomé; Angolar, which evolved from
the original creole among the maroons who took refuge in the southern part of the island;
Lung’ie (or Principense), which developed from Santomé transplanted to Principe island;
and Fa d’Ambo, a variety which also developed from Santomé, transplanted to the island of
Annobón, which came under Spanish rule in 1778.
The initial creole was formed roughly between 1493 and 1520. During this period, slaves
were mainly imported from Benin, where Edo (a Kwa language) was, and still is, spoken.
Among the African substrate languages, Edo has influenced most of the grammar of the
Portuguese creoles of the Gulf of Guinea (Hagemeijer 2009: 1–3). Although as of 1520 the
islands of São Tome and Principe received an enormous contingent of Bantu‐speaking slaves
from Congo and Angola, the Bantu languages had little influence on the development of the
Santome grammar (Ferraz 1979).
The above‐mentioned creoles went through a more radical process of grammatical
restructuring (Ferraz 1979: 60–89; Hagemeijer 2009: 10–17). The following examples are
taken from Santomé, except for the example in (6), which is from Angolar:
1.  All Portuguese verbal inflection was eliminated and replaced by preverbal TMAparticles,
such as the particle tava, expressing the past anterior (e tava ba shinema “he had gone to
the cinema”).
2.	 As a consequence of the loss of inflection, these creoles, unlike Portuguese, do not allow
null referential subjects, and require subject pronoun clitics, as in French.
3.	 Pronominal case inflection was lost, leaving uninflected pronouns for all syntactic
functions.
4.	 The Edo pronominal form inen functions as a third person plural pronoun (inen sebe
“they know”) and as a nominal pluralizer (inen mina “the children”).
5.	 An indeterminate subject pronoun, probably from Edo origin, was created (a pó fé kwa sé
“one can do that”) (Ferraz 1979: 66).
6.	 The Edo noun for “body” grammaticalized as a reflexive pronoun (Ê mata ôngê rê “he
killed himself”).
7.	 double negation construction na… fa was created (Sun na bila lembla ngê ku sa mosu fa
“you did not remember who was the boy”).
8.	 Development of verb serialization, in which verbs gramaticalize into other functions, as,
for example, the verb “give” functions as a dative preposition (e.g. complá sapé da mu “buy
hat to me”).
5. Asia
Bartolomeu Dias rounded the Cape of Good Hope in 1487, opening maritime routes to India
for the first time. By 1518, the Portuguese had reached Goa, Daman, and Diu in India,
Malacca in Malaysia, Macao in China, East Timor in Southeast Asia, and today’s Sri Lanka.
Portuguese in Contact  47
The Portuguese presence in Asia gave rise to diverse Portuguese‐based language varieties,
including several Portuguese‐lexified pidgins and creoles. Cardoso (2009) illustrates the
presence of a number of Portuguese‐lexified contact languages spread across South Asia,
shown in Figure 3.1.
Clements (1996) proposes four subgroups for the Portuguese‐based creoles in Asia,
­
summarized in Table 3.1.
Some of these Portuguese‐lexified contact languages are still spoken in Diu, Daman, and
Korlai, but only to a limited extent (Cardoso 2009: 7), and they are nearly extinct in Macao
and Malacca. Moreover, varieties of Portuguese as a first or second language are still found
in Goa, Macao, and East Timor.
Khambhat/Cambay
Surat
Daman
Vasai/Bassein
Diu
Mumbai/Bombay
Korlai/Chaul
Goa
Mangalore
Kannur/Cannanore
Tellicherry
Kochi/Cochin
Kollam/Quilon
Tuticorin
Karaikal
Nagapattinam/Negapatam
Tranquebar
Cuddalore
Puducheri/Pondicherry
Chennai/Madras
Vishakhapatnam
Pipli
Baleshwar/Balasore
Chittagong
Dhaka
Hooghly
Calcutta
Midnapore
Chandannagar/Chandernagore
BANGLADESH
Meliapor
Puttalam
Mannar
Batticaloa
Trincomalee
Mahé
ARABIAN
SEA
BAY OF BENGAL
INDIA
SRI
LANKA
Kozhikode/Calicut
Figure 3.1  The sixteenth‐century Portuguese presence in South Asia (Cardoso 2009).
Table 3.1  Portuguese‐based creoles in Asia (based on Clements 1996: 1).
Subgroups Languages
Gauro‐Portuguese Diu, Daman, Norteiro (Bombay and Korlai)
Dravido‐Portuguese Mangalore, Camanore, Mahé, Cochin, Nagappattinam, Sri Lanka
Malayo‐Portuguese Malacca, East Timor, Singapore, Batavia
Sino‐Portuguese Macao, Hong Kong
48  Ana Maria Carvalho and Dante Lucchesi
5.1.  Portuguese‐based varieties in India
In West India, one finds Portuguese‐lexified creoles in Diu, Daman, and Korlai. It is esti-
mated that there are 200 Portuguese speakers in Diu and 4000 in Daman, while approxi-
mately 700 are believed to still speak Portuguese in Korlai (Holm 1989; Cardoso 2009).
According to Cardoso (2009), the use of Portuguese in Diu is currently related to
Catholicism, education, economic prosperity, and nostalgia for the colonial area. Local vari-
eties of Portuguese vary along the Standard Portuguese and Diu Indo‐Portuguese con-
tinuum, as variable verbal and nominal agreement illustrates. The examples (1 a and b), also
from Cardoso (2009, 21), show the difference between a local form (1 a) and the Standard
European form (1 b) produced by the same speaker, when saying “I don’t know”:
(1)  a. yo nã sab (Diu Indo‐Portuguese)
b. yo nã sey (Standard Portuguese)
Portuguese varieties spoken in Daman and in Diu are mutually understandable, because both
originated from the contact with Gujarati, the regional language, and because there are frequent
interpersonal contacts between their inhabitants. Among some of the differences, Daman
speakers use constructions with auxiliary and gerundive verb forms to express progressive
aspect, as example (2) illustrates for the verb cantar (“to sing”) with the gerund suffix ‐n, while
Diu speakers prefer progressive with the infinitive (3), as illustrated in Cardoso (2009: 23).
(2)  Joyce   te kanta‐n agor
“Joyce is singing now.”
(3)  Leslie   ta kãt‐a
“Leslie is singing.”
The differences between these varieties are mostly quantitative and point to a perception
in the communities that Diu speakers incorporate more Standard Portuguese in their vari-
eties than Damans. Compared to Daman and Diu, Korlai creole, which is spoken in the
Chau–Korlai region, is also an old creole that survived due to its geographic isolation. Unlike
Daman and Diu, Korlai grew apart from Standard Portuguese showing increasing Marathi
influence as attested by the shift from the SVO order prevalent until the early twentieth
century to the current SOV order (Clements 1990). Nowadays, the Portuguese origin of
Korlai is most noticeable in the core lexicon (Clements 1996).
A somewhat different situation is found in Goa, where Portuguese replaced the creole in
the beginning of the nineteenth century (Holm, 1989). Portuguese was kept as the appro-
priate language to be used in this important Roman Catholic ecclesiastical center, among
civil servants and clerics, and in the military. Beyond these circles, the vast majority used the
indigenous Konkani language as their primary language, except for a small elite, which
continued to speak Portuguese (Rodrigues, 2000). After Goa’s independence, English grad-
ually became the language of prestige, although there is still some schooling, written media,
and a few interest groups in Portuguese.
5.2.  Portuguese‐based varieties in Southeast Asia
In Southeast Asia, Portuguese is spoken to a limited extent as a first or second language in
Macao and East Timor, while Kristang (Malacca) and Maquista (Macao) are in clear decline.
Since the foundation of Macao in 1557, the contact between Chinese, Portuguese, and other
languages spoken by Indians, Malayans, and Africans, resulted in the use of Portuguese as a
first and as a second language, in addition to the development of Portuguese‐based pidgins
and creoles (Baxter 2009). In 1999, when Macao became a Special Administrative Region of
Portuguese in Contact  49
the People’s Republic of China, Chinese was declared the co‐official language along with
Portuguese. Baxter estimates that Macao counts 4000 individuals who speak Portuguese as
their first language, in addition to 2500 speakers of Portuguese as a second language.
The linguistic landscape of Macao is clearly bilingual due to the current language policy
that enforces bilingual public signage, as illustrated by the picture in Figure 3.2.7
Baxter (2009: 296) lists a series of Macao Portuguese features resulting from contact with
Chinese that show parallels with the former creoles of Macao and Malacca, such as the lack
of nasal vowels and rhotic distinctions. In addition, Baxter discusses features in Macao
Portuguese that show parallels in other Portuguese vernaculars, including variable nominal
agreement with prenominal elements favoring the plural marker, also attested in Brazil and
Africa (see Sections 3 and 4 above). More direct cases of contact‐induced changes in local
Macao Portuguese are variable gender agreement, absence of articles and verbal tense
marking, and other features claimed to be either reminiscent of Macao creole or more directly
influenced by Chinese (Baxter 2009).
In East Timor, as in Macao, Portuguese was mainly used in the central administration,
in the army, and among missionaries. Currently the co‐official language along with Tetum,
Portuguese existed before the independence and during the occupation by Indonesia (1975–
1999) as the lingua franca of the educated elites. Since Timor’s independence, Portuguese
is estimated to be spoken by 5 percent to 35 percent of the population, mainly among
the elderly (Albuquerque 2011: 68). Unlike the situation in the former African colonies,
where Portuguese was maintained as the lingua franca after independence, Tetum is the
language preferred in East Timor as a common means of communication among the
speakers of one of the 16 different indigenous languages.
In Albuquerque’s (2011) study of Portuguese varieties currently used in East Timor, the
author shows features that fluctuate between standard Portuguese and local dialects, which
include features found in other Portuguese monolingual varieties and others clearly resulting
fromsubstratuminterference,suchasprosodicpatterns,absenceofprepositions,anddifferential
agreement marking. The author also finds similarities among East Timorese Portuguese and
other Portuguese‐based creoles in the region, such as from Malacca and Macao.
Contact with Portuguese gave rise to creoles in Southeast Asia as well, but most have
undergone language shift. Kristang, spoken by a small community in Malacca, is the last
Figure 3.2  Public sign in Macao, China.
50  Ana Maria Carvalho and Dante Lucchesi
variety of the East and Southeast Asian Portuguese creoles, but it is currently under pressure
from Malay and English and showing clear signs of language shift. Baxter (2005) shows that
Kristang is in the process of being lost, as witnessed by the replacement of Kristang lexical
items with Malay and English equivalents in addition to signs of structural borrowing from
English. According to Baxter, only through the immediate implementation of language revi-
talization measures can Kristang be saved from extinction.
In Macao, pidginized varieties of Portuguese also evolved from contact that took place
among traders and missionaries. As claimed by Baxter (2005), Makista originated from both
Portuguese‐based pidgins and creoles from other Portuguese colonies brought to Macao. In
the nineteenth century, Makista started to lose ground to Portuguese due to the increasing
presence of schooling in Portuguese. By the twentieth century the process of decreolization
was completed. Currently, the variety is believed to be nearly extinct, surviving only in local
artistic performances (Baxter 2009).
Connections between Portuguese‐based varieties in West and East Asia have been the
subject of great scholarly attention. Baxter (2009: 286) identifies morphosyntactic structures
and lexical items shared by Kristang and Makista due to historical connections between
the regions in the sixteenth century. For example, he claims that the presence of ja as the
perfective particle and the SVO order illustrate, among others features, the result of intense
contact between different substratum languages with the Portuguese superstrate.8
6.  Portuguese in contact with Spanish
Unlike the contact situations discussed previously that resulted from Portuguese expansion
overseas, the contact between Portuguese and Spanish arises from the geographic contiguity
of Portuguese‐ and Spanish‐speaking countries in South America and in the Iberian
Peninsula, where political and linguistic borders do not coincide. This particular setting
posits different analytical challenges, since sorting out shared inheritance from contact‐
induced changes is difficult. Furthermore, it is commonly assumed that cognate languages
facilitate contact‐induced phenomena. The contact of Portuguese with Spanish in contexts of
language acquisition, transnational communication across borders, and bilingualism, pres-
ents an ideal platform for testing such a hypothesis. In this section, we will focus our attention
on Portuguese–Spanish contact during which societal and prolonged bilingualism has given
rise to stable varieties, as in northern Uruguay in South America and Miranda do Minho and
Barranco in Europe.
6.1. Uruguay
The presence of Portuguese in Uruguay is the result of the region’s colonial history. From the
earliest European presence in the Southern Cone, Spaniards and Portuguese battled over
Uruguayan territory. The presence of the Portuguese army in what is nowadays Uruguay is
attested to by the foundation of the city of Colonia do Sacramento in 1680 and the complete
control of the “Cisplatine Province” from 1815 until 1825. In northern Uruguay, Portuguese
was spoken until the nineteenth century, when the Uruguayan government promoted the
establishment of Hispanic culture and language in the border communities as a nation‐
building strategy. By the early twentieth century, Spanish had indeed penetrated the
Portuguese‐speaking north. However, despite several Spanish‐only language policies,
Portuguese has survived in that area, including in the border towns of Rivera, Artigas, and
Aceguá, where bilingualism is widespread. With Spanish being the language of education
and public life and Portuguese being used as a vernacular for in‐group interaction, the
linguistic situation can be defined as semi‐diglossic.
Portuguese in Contact  51
Uruguayan Portuguese has clear origins in rural, non‐standard Brazilian Portuguese (BP)
spoken in adjacent areas of southern Brazil, as attested by the presence of words such as inté
(até “until”), ansin (assim “this way”), the proclictic address form nhá (senhora), in addition to
lh‐gliding, variable verbal and nominal agreement, and presence of the ‐emo verbal suffix for
first‐person plural in ‐ar verbs (e.g., cantemo for cantamos, “we sing”) (Elizaincín et al. 1987).
In addition, it presents several features borrowed from Spanish, such as lexical items as
illustrated in (4), where padre is used for BP pai (“father”) , lexicalized NPs as in (5), where
fideo con tuco is used for BP macarrão com molho (“spaguetti and sauce”), in addition to lexical
calques, as illustrated in (6) where povo, cf. Sp. pueblo, “village” is used for BP vila, and syn-
tactic calques, as in (7), where um (cf. Sp. uno “one”) is used as the subject of an indeterminate
construction.
(4)  Olha, quando meu padre não tá passo o dia todo olhando televisão.
“Look, when my ‘father’ is not [around] I spend the whole day watching television.”
(5)  Acho que é fideo con tuco, porque todo mundo adora um fideo con tuco.
“I think it is ‘spaghetti with sauce’, because everyone loves ‘spaghetti with sauce’.”
(6)  Eu passava numa quinta de eucalipto que tava bem ao lado do povo.
“I used to pass by a Eucalyptus plantation that was next to the village.”
(7)  É a realidade da vida. Aunque um não queira as vez se dar conta.
“That is the reality of life. Although one doesn’t want to face it sometimes.”
In addition, other contact features are present, such as phonetic transfers, amply dis-
cussed in Douglas (2004) and Meireles (2009), as well as code‐switching (Douglas 2004;
Carvalho 2014). In fact, the presence of contact features in these border dialects led Lipski
(2009, among others) to argue that the contact of Portuguese with Spanish in Uruguay
gave rise to a new hybrid language the so‐called Portuñol. Others find clear continuities
between border varieties and monolingual counterparts spoken in adjacent areas that con-
tradict the notion of “a new language” (Carvalho 2003, 2004, 2014; Pacheco, 2014). Studies
based on data collected on both sides of the border fail to see clear isoglosses separating
Brazilian from Uruguayan varieties of Portuguese (Meirelles 2009; Pacheco 2014). While
highly hybrid constructions are indeed abundant in unmonitored speech, the diglossic
dynamics that render the separation of codes socially significant in addition to the norma-
tive pressure which national varieties exert on border dialects give rise to multidialectal
and bilingual repertoires that are stylistically and socially stratified, thus defying the
monolectal perspective of a single and unified mixed code (Carvalho 2014). Dialectal
leveling of Uruguayan Portuguese towards urban varieties of Brazilian Portuguese is
evidenced by the incorporation of features such as pronominal a gente “we” (Pacheco 2014)
and the palatalization of dental stops (di) and (ti) (Carvalho 2004; Catañeda Molla 2011),
and may signal dialect shift in the long term, unless more focused varieties of Uruguayan
Portuguese continue to be used as a border identity marker, alongside Spanish and increas-
ingly standardized versions of Portuguese.
6.2. Portugal
Two areas in Portugal present cases of dialects that coexist with Spanish which depart
substantially from the surrounding monolingual varieties of Portuguese: Miranda do
Douro and Barranco. Mirandese, spoken in northeastern Portugal is a structurally transi-
tional variety along the Portuguese–Mirandese–Spanish continuum (Martins 2014).
Directly derived from Asturo‐Leonese, Mirandese has developed into a variety with fea-
tures that either coincide with Portuguese or Spanish, or features that are not encountered
in either language. For example, while Mirandese has the nasal vowels and diphthongs
52  Ana Maria Carvalho and Dante Lucchesi
from the Portuguese vowel system, it shows the maintenance of intervocalic /l/ in pila as
in Spanish (Portuguese pia, “sink”) (Martins 2014). One of the few features that are unique
to Mirandese is the use of ‐e as a theme vowel for regular ‐ar verbs and a verbal morphology
that shares features with both Portuguese and Spanish, thus demonstrating its transi-
tional character.
Martins’ comparison of census data, language choice surveys, and interviews carried out
in Miranda do Douro show that the vitality of Mirandese is very low due to a process of
gradual language shift towards Portuguese. This trend is confirmed by a series of profi-
ciency tests that show children having higher proficiency in Portuguese than in Mirandese.
The children were also submitted to a perception test where they had to discern Mirandese
and Portuguese features, in which they demonstrated the ability to perceive both varieties as
different entities (Martins 2014).
Barranquenho is another Portuguese‐based variety in contact with Spanish found in
Portugal. Spoken in Barrancos within an area of Spanish–Portuguese bilingualism, it is
heavily influenced by Spanish. According to Clements, Amaral, and Luís (2011), this
dialect represents a mixed language that has developed and survived because of its strong
relation with the local identity. In this region, Portuguese has coexisted alongside Spanish
since the sixteenth century due to constant territory disputes between the two countries.
Nowadays, frequent travels to Spain for shopping and medical assistance, in addition to
the higher prestige attributed to Spanish, motivate border dwellers to acquire Spanish,
while the community’s official language remains Portuguese, and Barranquenho is
reserved for in‐group interactions (Clements et al. 2011). The description of Barrenquenho
by Clements et al. (2011) shows several traits illustrating its affiliation with Portuguese,
such as the seven oral vowel system and the /s–z/ contrast. Other elements presented as
typical of Barranquenho are also present in monolingual varieties of Portuguese, such as
the lack of the /b–v/ distinction, the deletion of word‐final consonants, and variable clitic
placement. Clear evidence of changes induced by the contact with Spanish includes
indirect object doubling with full NPs, as illustrated in Clements et al. (2011) and repro-
duced in (8).
(8)  Le conté a meu pai.
Standard Portuguese Contei ao meu pai.
Standard Spanish Le conté a mi padre.
“I told my father.”
Also typical is the use of the Spanish discourse marker bueno, a commonly borrowed
word in Uruguayan and Southern Brazilian Portuguese as well. In addition, the authors doc-
ument the variable use of the Spanish construction involving the “gustar‐type” verbs with
the experiencer coded as the indirect object and the corresponding Portuguese construction
where the experiencer is coded as the subject. For Clements et al. (2011), these direct interfer-
ences from Spanish are numerous and categorical enough to justify the classification of
Barranquenho as a new language. Barranquenho presents an ideal context for variationist
analysis that would disambiguate contact features from internal changes, and account for
the social and stylistic distribution of these features in the community.
In sum, the analyses of Uruguayan Portuguese, Mirandese, and Barranquenho reveal
contexts where cognate languages such as Portuguese and Spanish maintain their structural
differences while allowing the emergence of local and unique varieties in the bilingual
repertoire. Despite typological similarities, which in theory are believed to give rise to mixed
varieties that replace the source languages, the presence of social pressure, identity issues,
and diglossic dynamics allow for the preservation of cross‐linguistic differences in these
bilingual dialects.
Portuguese in Contact  53
7. Conclusion
In this chapter, it has been suggested that Brazilian Portuguese is affected, to a greater or
lesser extent, by the contact of Portuguese with Brazilian indigenous languages and African
languages that were taken to Brazil. In addition, situations of language contact in Africa,
Asia, and Oceania were surveyed, including both contexts that gave rise to the emergence of
creole languages and situations where varieties of Portuguese are spoken as a second lan-
guage by millions of speakers. Finally, the contact between Portuguese and Spanish along
national borders in Brazil and Portugal was discussed, shedding light on issues of perme-
ability of cognate languages in contact situations.
In addition to their political and cultural relevance, situations involving contact between
Portuguese and other languages constitute valuable and promising fields of linguistic
research whose findings can contribute to our understanding of important issues, such as the
origin of human language, patterns of language variation and change in contact situations,
and issues related to first and second language acquisition. As such, language contact consti-
tutes a phenomenon of significant historical, social, and linguistic dimensions within the
Lusophone world.
notes
1	Dante Lucchesi thanks Alan Baxter for comments and suggestions regarding Sections 2–4. Any
errors are the responsibility of the author.
2	Numerous other contexts illustrate situations where Portuguese is in contact with other languages,
including bilingual varieties of Portuguese spoken by immigrants and the indigenous population in
Brazil, and Portuguese‐speaking migrants in America, Asia and Europe. A discussion of these other
situations is outside the scope of this chapter due to space limitations.
3	 Bakker et al. (2011) propose that creoles constitute a special language typology, while others defend
the opposite view (DeGraff 2001).
4	 For a similar proposal, see Holm (2004).
5	 The term mameluco is used traditionally to refer to the mestizo offspring of European colonizers and
indigenous women.
6	Naro and Scherre (2007) present an alternative view according to which the current characteristics
of Popular Brazilian Portuguese would have originated through natural language‐internal evolu-
tion, based on the concept of drift proposed by Sapir (1921). However, they also refer to a “conflu-
ence of causes”, including language contact and pidginization of Portuguese in Brazil, which would
have intensified and accelerated the changes that were foreseen in the structure of the language.
7	 Photo by Ana M. Carvalho, 2013.
8	 For a comprehensive overview of the relationships among Portuguese‐based creoles in Asia, see
Cardoso, Baxter, and Nunes 2012.
References
Albuquerque, D. B. (2011). O Português no Timor
Leste: Contribuições para o estudo de uma
variedade emergente. PAPIA, 21 (1), pp. 65–82.
Alkmim, T. (2008). Falas e cores: Um estudo sobre
o português de negros e escravos no Brasil do
século XIX. In I. S. Lima and L. do Carmo (eds.),
História Social da Língua Nacional. Rio de Janeiro:
Casa de Rui Barbosa, pp. 247–264.
Bakker, P., A. Daval‐Markussen, M. Parkvall, and
I. Plag (2011). Creoles are typologically distinct
from non‐creoles. Journal of Pidgin and Creole
Languages, 26 (1), pp. 5–42.
54  Ana Maria Carvalho and Dante Lucchesi
Baxter, A. (2005). Kristang (Malacca Creole
Portuguese): A long‐time survivor seriously
endangered. Sociolinguistic Studies, 6 (1),
pp. 1–37.
Baxter, A. (2009). O Português de Macau. In
A. M. Carvalho (ed.), Português em Contato,
Madrid: Iberoamericana:Verviert Verlag,
pp. 277–312.
Bender, G. J. (2004). Angola sob o domínio
português: mito e realidade. Luanda: Editorial
Nzila.
Cardoso, H. (2009). The Indo‐Portuguese Language
of Diu. Uthrecht: LOT.
Cardoso, H., A. N. Baxter, and M. P. Nunes (eds.)
(2012). Ibero‐Asian Creoles: Comparative
Perspectives. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Carvalho, A. M. (2003). Rumo a uma definição do
português uruguaio. Revista Internacional de
Lingüística Iberoamericana, 2, pp. 125–150.
Carvalho, A. M. (2004). “I speak like the guys on
TV”: Palatalization and the urbanization of
Uruguayan Portuguese. Language Variation and
Change, 16 (2), pp. 127–151.
Carvalho, A. M. (2014). Sociolinguistic
continuities in language contact situations:
the case of Portuguese in contact with
Spanish along the Uruguayan–Brazilian
border. In P. Amaral and A. M. Carvalho
(eds.), Portuguese–Spanish Interfaces.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins, pp. 263–294.
Catañeda Molla, R. M. (2011). Linguistic variation
in a border town: Palatalization of dental stops and
vowel nasalization in Rivera. Ph.D. dissertation,
University of Florida.
Clements, C. (1990). Deletion as an indicator of
SVO–SOV shift. Language Variation and Change,
2, pp. 103–133.
Clements, J. C. (1996). The Genesis of a Language:
The Formation and Development of Korlai
Portuguese. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Clements, J. C., P. Amaral, and A. Luís (2011).
Spanish in contact with Portuguese: The
case of Barranquenho. In M. Díaz‐Campos
(ed.), The Handbook of Hispanic
Sociolinguistics. Oxford: Wiley‐Blackwell,
pp. 395–417.
DeGraff, M. (2001). On the origin of creoles:
A Cartesian critique of “neo”–Darwinian
linguistics. Linguistic Typology, 203,
pp. 213–310.
Douglas, K. L. (2004). Uruguayan Portuguese in
Artigas: Tri‐dimensionality of transitional local
varieties in contact with Spanish and Portuguese
standards. Ph.D. dissertation, University of
Wisconsin, Madison, WI.
Elizaincín, A., L. Behares, and G. Barrios (1987).
Nós falemo Brasileiro. Dialectos portugueses del
Uruguay. Montevideo: Amesur.
Ferraz, L. I. (1979). The Creole of São Tomé.
Johannesburg: Witwatersrand University Press.
Gonçalves, P. (2010). A gênese do português de
Moçambique. Lisboa: Imprensa Nacional.
Hagemeijer, T. (2009). As Línguas de S. Tomé e
Príncipe. Revista de Crioulos de Base Lexical
Portuguesa e Espanhola, 1 (1), pp. 1–27.
Holm, J. (1989). Pidgins and Creoles: Volume 2.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Holm, J. (2004). Languages in Contact: The Partial
Restructuring of Vernaculars. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Inverno, L. (2009). A transição de Angola para o
português vernáculo: um estudo
morfossintático do sintagma nominal. In A.
Carvalho (ed.), Português em Contato. Madrid:
Iberoamericana, pp. 87–106.
Kihm, A. (1994). Kriyol Syntax – The Portuguese‐
based creole language of Guinea‐Bissau.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Lefebvre, C. (1998). Creole Genesis and the
Acquisition of Grammar: The Case of Haitian
Creole. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Lipski, J. (2009). Searching for the origins of
Uruguayan Fronterizo dialects: Radical
codemixing as “fluent dysfluency”. JPL, 8 (1),
pp. 3–44.
Lucchesi, D. (2001). As duas grandes vertentes da
história sociolingüística do Brasil. DELTA, 17
(1), pp. 97–130.
Lucchesi, D. (2008). Aspectos gramaticais do
português brasileiro afetados pelo contato
entre línguas: uma visão de conjunto. In C.
Roncarati and J. Abraçado (eds.), Português
brasileiro II: contato linguístico, heterogeneidade e
história. Niterói: EDUFF, pp. 366–390.
Lucchesi, D. (2009). História do Contato entre
Línguas no Brasil. In D. Lucchesi, A. Baxter,
and I. Ribeiro (eds.), O Português Afro‐
Brasileiro. Salvador: Edufba, pp. 41–73.
Lucchesi, D. (2012). A diferenciação da língua
portuguesa no Brasil e o contato entre línguas.
Estudos de Lingüística Galega, 4, pp. 45–65.
Martins, C. (2014). Mirandese in contact with
Portuguese and Spanish. In P. Amaral and
A. M. Carvalho (eds.), Portuguese–Spanish
Interfaces. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 295–315.
Mattos e Silva, R. V. (2004). Ensaios para uma
sócio‐história do português brasileiro. São Paulo:
Parábola.
Portuguese in Contact  55
Meirelles, V. A. G. (2009). O portugués da
frontera Uruguai–Brasil. In A. M. Carvalho
(ed.), Português em Contato. Madrid:
Iberoamericana, pp. 257–275.
Naro, A. and M. Scherre (2007). Origens do
Português Brasileiro. São Paulo: Parábola.
Pacheco, C. (2014). Alternância “nós” e “a gente”
no português brasileiro e português uruguaio na
fronteira Brasil–Uruguai. Ph.D. dissertation,
University of Brasília.
Ribeiro, O. (1981). A colonização de Angola e seu
fracasso. Lisboa: Imprensa Nacional.
Rickford, J. and S. Romaine (eds.) (1999). Creole
Genesis, Attitudes and Discourse. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Rodrigues, M. B. C. (2000). The status of
Portuguese language and some cultural
aspects in Goa. In Lusotopie 2000. Lusophonies
asiatiques, Asiatiques en lusophonies. Paris:
Karthala, pp. 597–609.
Sapir, E. (1921). Language: An Introduction to the
Study of Speech. New York: Harcourt, Brace.
Siegel, J. (2008). The Emergence of Pidgin and
Creole Languages. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Vansina, J. (2001). Portuguese vs Kimbundu:
Language use in the colony of Angola
(1575–c.1845). Bulletin dês Sèances Academie
Royale des Sciences d’Outre‐Mer, 47,
pp. 267–281.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
From a phonological point of view, the segment inventory of most dialects of European
Portuguese (EP) and Brazilian Portuguese (BP) is very similar.1
Some of the differences bet-
ween dialects are due to innovations in Brazil and Portugal after 1500, for example, final
unstressed [i] > [ɨ] in Portugal and [ti, di] > [ʧi, ʤi] in Rio de Janeiro. Other processes have
been seen as the result of neutralization processes, as in the structuralist analysis of Câmara
Jr., 1970, or in the generative analysis of Mateus and et al. 1990. In this chapter, we will focus
on the sounds of BP with special attention given to the Paulista (São Paulo State) dialect.
When EP presents noticeable differences from BP we will provide appropriate comments
and examples. Other dialectal differences will be noted when considered useful.
1. Consonants
BP has 21 consonantal phonemes, which are represented in Table 4.1.
All these consonants appear in the word‐initial syllable onsets, except the palatals [ɲ], [ʎ]
and tap [ɾ], which are found only word‐internally.2
pato [ˈpa.tu] “duck” fato [ˈfa.tu] “fact”
bato [ˈba.tu] “I beat” vasto [ˈvas.tu] “vast”
tato [ˈta.tu] “tact” sapo [ˈsa.pu] “toad”
dato [ˈda.tu] “I date” zaga [ˈza.ga] “Fullback”
cato [ˈka.tu] “I gather” chato [ˈʃa.tu] “boring”
gato [ˈga.tu] “cat” jato [ˈʒa.tu] “jet”
mato [ˈma.tu] “bush” lato [ˈla.tu] “broad”
nato [ˈna.tu] “born” palha [ˈpa.ʎa] “straw”
banho [ˈbɐ̃.ɲu] “bath” rato [ˈha.tu] “rat”
caro [ˈka.ɾu] “dear”

A Comparative Study of the
Sounds of European and
Brazilian Portuguese:
Phonemes and Allophones
Gladis Massini‐Cagliari, Luiz Carlos
Cagliari, and Wayne J. Redenbarger
4
A Comparative Study of the Sounds of European and Brazilian Portuguese  57
At the phonetic level, other consonants appear, as a result of the application of various
phonetic processes.
1.1. Affricates
In BP, palatalization converts the stops [t] and [d] to [ʧ] and [ʤ] whenever they precede a
high front [i] vowel. The affricates [ʧ] or [ʤ] behave as a single segment in BP. This affrication
of coronal stops occurs in many dialects of BP, including the Paulista and Carioca (Rio de
Janeiro) varieties.
tia [ˈʧi.a] “aunt”
dia [ˈʤi.a] “day”
parte [ˈpah.ʧi] “part”
advogado [a.ʤi.vo.ˈɡa.du] “lawyer” 3
This process does not apply in EP.
In a few varieties in the Northeast and Central regions of Brazil, affricates occur following
a high front tense vowel [i] or a palatal glide [j]: rito [ˈhi.ʧu] “cult”; prefeito [pɾe.ˈfej.ʧu]
“mayor”; vida [ˈvi.ʤa] “life”; doido [ˈdoj.ʤu] “crazy.”
1.2. Nasals
Both in BP and EP, an underlying nasal consonant in the syllable coda assimilates to the place
of articulation of the following onset stop in citation forms: bambo [ˈbɐ̃m.bu] “loose”; bando
[ˈbɐ̃n.du] “band”; banco [ˈbɐ̃ŋ.ku] “bench.” In normal speed speech, the nasal in coda posi-
tion is usually not pronounced: bambo [ˈbɐ̃.bu] “loose,” bando [ˈbɐ̃.du] “band,” banco [ˈbɐ̃.ku]
“bench.” Before fricatives, liquids or rhotics, no nasal consonant occurs in BP or EP: infeliz
[ı̃.fe.ˈlis], *[in.fe.ˈlis] “unhappy”; enlatado [ẽ.la.ˈta.du]/[ẽȷ̃.la.ˈta.du], *[en.la.ˈta.du] “canned”;
honra [ˈõ.ha], *[ˈon.ha] “honor.” In BP and EP, the velar nasal [ŋ] also occurs following a back
vowel, resulting from a progressive assimilation of the articulator feature of the preceding
vowel: som [ˈso͂ŋ] “sound”; lã [ˈlɐ̃ŋ] “wool” (Cagliari, 1977).
1.3. Laterals
Exclusively in BP, in coda position, a lateral consonant is frequently realized as a labial glide
[w]: mal [ˈmɑw] / [ˈmaw] “evil.” The velarized consonant [ɫ] is the typical European
Portuguese pronunciation in this environment: sol [ˈsɔƚ] “sun”; Brasil [bɾaˈziƚ] “Brazil.”
Table 4.1  BP consonantal phonemes.
Stops Fricatives Nasals Laterals Rhotics
Labial p b f v m
Coronal t d s z n l ɾ
Palatal ʃ ʒ ɲ ʎ
Dorsal k g
Dorsal & Round kʷ gʷ
Glottal h
58  Gladis Massini-Cagliari, Luiz Carlos Cagliari, and Wayne J. Redenbarger
Nowadays [ƚ] is rare in BP and it occurs principally in the South of Brazil. Tasca (2002)
observes that, besides the velarized [ɫ] and the vocalized [w], the coronal lateral [l] also
occurs as a coda variant of /l/ in Rio Grande do Sul.
1.4.  Palatal sonorants
In Wetzels (2000: 6), it is proposed that /ɲ, ʎ/ are phonological geminates in BP. But we can
also apply Wetzels’ arguments to EP. One of the author´s arguments relates to the systematic
nasalization of a preceding unstressed vowel before /ɲ/. The allophonic nasalization of a
vowel in the context of a following nasal onset consonant is variable in BP, but obligatory
only for stressed vowels: cana [ˈkɐ̃.na] “sugarcane,” but caneta [ka.ˈne.ta] “pen.” However, in
the case of palatal nasal /ɲ/, nasalization is consistent in both stressed and unstressed
position:
Unstressed nasal vowels before /ɲ/:
Nasal vowel in pretonic position
dinheiro [dĩ.ˈɲej.ɾu] “money”
senhor [sẽ.ˈɲoɾ] “sir”
Nasal vowel in tonic position:
cozinha [ko.ˈzı̃.ɲa] “kitchen”
aranha [a.ˈɾɐ̃.ɲa] “spider”
Another observation is that syllable rhymes which precede [ɲ, ʎ] are always light. If
­
palatal sonorants are geminates, this would follow from the BP rhyme constraint, which
allows only two segments in a syllable rhyme, the last of which would be occupied by the
first part of the geminate (Wetzels 1997). Also, since falling diphthongs are not allowed
before [ ɲ, ʎ], the natural syllabification for the sequence “vowel + high vowel + [ ɲ, ʎ]”
would be to maintain hiatus: rainha [ha.ˈı̃.ɲa] “queen”; faulha [fa.ˈu.ʎa] “spark.”4
Under
this analysis, the sequence “vowel + high vowel” before a sonorant [m, n, l, ɾ], is obliga-
torily syllabified as a VG falling diphthong: queima [ˈkej.ma] “it burns”; reino [ˈhej.nu]
“kingdom”; baile [ˈbaj.li] “ball”; Laura [ˈlɑw.ɾa] “Laura.” The geminate hypothesis also
correctly predicts that main stress could never be on the third syllable from the right
word‐edge in words which have [ ɲ, ʎ] in the onset of the word‐final syllable, as in alcunha
[ɑw.ˈkũ.ɲa] “nickname,” or cozinha [ko.ˈzı̃.ɲa] “kitchen,” since main stress can never skip
a prefinal heavy syllable in BP.5
For many Brazilians, but not for EP speakers, there is no phonetic difference in the
pronunciation of the palatal lateral [ʎ] and a sequence of an alveolar lateral plus a palatal
glide [lj]: família [fa.ˈmi.ʎa] / [fa.ˈmi.lja] “family.” In the lower‐income sociolect of Brazil, the
palatal lateral is usually realized as a palatal glide [j]: palhaço [pa.ˈʎa.su] > [pa.ˈja.su] “clown”
(Cagliari, 1999: 70–72).
1.5. Fricatives
In EP, the coronal fricatives [s, z] palatalize in coda position to [ʃ, ʒ]: deste [ˡdeʃ.tɨ] “of/from
this”, desde [ˡdeʒ.dɨ] “since”. With the exception of the dialect of Rio de Janeiro (carioca)
and in few other regions, BP dialects do not palatalize coda fricatives. In all varieties of BP
and EP, word‐final [s] fails to palatalize when it syllabifies as the onset of the initial syllable
of a following word, in which case is it always realized as [z].
The distribution of the voiced or unvoiced variants is shown in Table 4.2.
A Comparative Study of the Sounds of European and Brazilian Portuguese  59
1.6.  Rhotics in BP
BP has two variants of the rhotic sound: “strong r” [h, x] and “weak r” [ɾ], which are contrastive
only in intervocalic position and which are in complementary distribution elsewhere. The
intervocalic contrast is reflected in the orthography by the use of single <r>, representing
/ɾ/, as opposed to double <rr>, representing /h, x/: caro “dear” versus carro “car.” Strong r
occurs word‐initially (roda “wheel”) and syllable‐initially after a non‐vocoid segment (Israel
“Israel”). In BP, weak r is typically pronounced as the tap [ɾ] between vocoid sounds and
when a second member of a complex onset (prato “dish”). In EP, syllable‐finally (porta “door”,
estudar “study”), the common pronunciation of the rhotic is [ɾ].
In BP, strong r can be phonetically realized by several allophones, including certain frica-
tives. In fact, the fricatives [h] and [x] are currently the most frequent realizations of strong r in
the majority of BP dialects. In communities of German immigrant descendants, strong r can
be realized also as the uvular trill [r]. The alveolar trill [r] is common in the South of Brazil
and in Italian immigrant communities.
roda [ˈhɔ.da] / [ˈxɔ.da] / [ˈrɔ.da] / [ˈrɔ.da] “wheel”
Cagliari (2007: 44) summarizes the vast variation concerning the phonetic realization of
rhotic consonants in BP. For instance, strong r can be pronounced in the beginning of words
as [x, h, r]. When intervocalic, the rhotics [x] and [h] may be voiced [ɣ] and [ɦ]: barriga [ba.ˈxi.
ga], [ba.ˈhi.ga]; [ba.ˈɣi.ga], [ba.ˈɦi.ga] “belly.” When before [i], the variant [x] may assimilate
the palatal quality, becoming a palatal fricative [ç] or [ɟ]: Rita [ˈçi,ta], [ˈɟi.ta] “Rita.”
In BP, the range of phonetic realizations of the rhotic in the syllable coda is very large and
different across dialects: typical strong r variants [h, x, r] are found, which are voiced or
voiceless, depending on the voice specification of the following segment, but also the vari-
ants [ɾ, ɹ, ɻ] can be heard, which are usually associated with the weak r. In the Carioca dialect,
the strong r variant [x] is favored in the syllable ending, whereas in the Paulista dialect the
weak r realizations predominate in that position. Retroflexed realizations are found in the
Caipira dialect of Brazil, mainly in the interior of the States of São Paulo and Paraná, which
have more recently also spread to other regions of the country. There are two retroflex rhotic
Table 4.2  Variation of coronal fricatives.
Rio de Janeiro & EP
[ʃ] / ___ [–voice]
___ ##
[ʒ] / ___ [+voice]
[z] / ___ # V
[ʃ]; [ʒ] ___ # C
Examples
desta
mês
vesgo
casas amarelas
os filhos
os velhos
[ˈdɛʃ.ta]
[ˈmeʃ]
[ˈveʒ.gu]
[ˈka.za.za.maˈɾɛ.laʃ]
[uʃ‵fi.ʎuʃ]
[uʒˈvɛ.ʎuʃ]
“of this (fem.)”
“month”
“squint‐eyed”
“yellow houses”
“the sons”
“the old ones”
Other BP varieties
[s] / ___ [–voice]
___ ##
[z] / ___ [+voice]
[z] / ___ # V
[s]; [z] ___ # C
Examples
desta
mês
vesgo
casas amarelas
os filhos
os velhos
[ˈdɛs.ta]
[ˈmes]
[ˈvez.gu]
[ˈka.za.za.maˈɾɛ‵.las]
[us.fiˈʎus]
[uzˈvɛ.ʎus]
“of this (fem.)”
“month”
“squint‐eyed”
“yellow houses”
“the sons”
“the old ones”
60  Gladis Massini-Cagliari, Luiz Carlos Cagliari, and Wayne J. Redenbarger
sounds: one anterior [ɹ], the other posterior [ɻ]. In the speech of the elderly speakers of the
Standard Paulista dialect, a voiceless trill [r̥] or even a cluster composed of a tap plus a voiceless
apical retroflex [ɹ̥] can be heard: porta [ˈpɔr̥ɹ̥.ta] “door”; mar [ˈmar̥ɹ̥] “sea.” Avoiceless trill [r̥] may
be found in the more formal registers before pause among the speakers who use the trill typ-
ically in that environment. In Minas Gerais, the most frequent realization of the coda rhotic
is the laryngeal fricative [h].
porta [ˈpɔɾ.ta] / [ˈpɔɹ.ta] / [ˈpɔɻ.ta] / [ˈpɔx.ta] / [ˈpɔh.ta] “door”
mar [ˈmaɾ] / [ˈmaɹ] / [ˈmaɻ] / [ˈmax] / [ˈmah] “sea”
There are a number of analytical problems involved in the proper phonological definition of
the contrasting rhotics of BP, related to the fact that the sounds that contrast in the intervo-
calic context are in complementary distribution elsewhere: how exactly must the phonolog-
ical contrast be defined and which phoneme of the contrastive pair represents the rhotics in
the contexts in which they exclude each other?
Câmara (1970: 38) proposed that the existence of a contrast in intervocalic context (caro
[ˈkaɾu] “dear” vs. carro [ˈkahu] “car”) between the strong r [h / x] and the weak r [ɾ] should be
interpreted as a difference between different types of vibrants (vibrante forte “strong vibrant”
vs. vibrante branda “weak vibrant”). In an earlier interpretation of this contrast, Câmara (1953)
considered the possibility of a single rhotic phoneme in BP, in which the intervocalic strong r
was represented as a sequence of two taps [ɾɾ]. Evidence for the interpretation of strong r as a
sequence of (identical) consonants [ɾɾ] is the fact that after nasal vowels, interpreted as pho-
nological /VN/ sequences, as well as after coda consonants only strong r occurs (genro [ˈʒẽ.
xu]/ [ˈʒẽ.hu]/ [ˈʒẽ.ɣu] “son in law”) and the fact that after diphthongs only [ɾ] is possible (ouro
[ˈow.ɾu] “gold”; beira [ˈbej.ɾa] “margin”; Maira [ˈmaj.ɾa] “Maira.”). The main problem with this
interpretation is how one must explain that some version of the strong r instead of the tap
occurs word‐initially (in the way it occurs in Italian), if its phonetic realization is identical
with the phonological geminate in the middle of words? Another problem is that the phonetic
realization of both the single and the geminate rhotic is that of a simple onset consonant.
Similar questions can be raised with respect to Monaretto (1997), who follows Câmara Jr.’s
(1953) interpretation. In turn, the analysis that considers the opposition to be between two
types of vibrants (h/x vs. ɾ) cannot explain why/ɾ/ occurs only in the intervocalic context
and in the second position of onset clusters (C_V). Most importantly, it cannot explain why
/ɾ/does not occur word‐initially. Abaurre and Sândalo (2003) argue in favor of an underlying
fricative sound which contrasts in intervocalic position with its geminate counterpart. The tap
[ɾ] is a weakened realization of the single fricative between vocoids (caro [ˈkaɾu] “dear”) and
in the second position of a consonantal cluster (prato [ˈpɾatu] “plate”). Notice that this inter-
pretation does not explain the cases of retroflex [ɹ]. At this moment, an agreement about the
phonological definition of the rhotics has not been reached.
1.7.  Rhotics in EP
Several of the BP rhotic realizations described above: [x], [h], etc. are exclusively found in BP
and do not occur in EP.
Mateus and d’Andrade (2000) and others codify the distribution of rhotics in European
Portuguese by positing the tap /ɾ/ as the underlying rhotic segment and deriving the EP
trilled version by rule. The EP tap trills by rule in word‐initial position and after a coronal
continuant. Between vowels, where it is spelled <rr>, the trill derives from an underlying
geminate /ɾɾ/.
Phonetically, the trill is still a coronal trill [r] in Portuguese Africa – the original historical
pronunciation; in continental EP a few areas still have the coronal trill as well. However, in
A Comparative Study of the Sounds of European and Brazilian Portuguese  61
most dialects of continental EP, including Lisbon, the coronal trill became a uvular trill [r],
an allophone heard today primarily in citation forms. Since the uvular trill is challenging to
produce, in EP the [r] trill typically doesn’t trill and thus becomes the rhotic fricative [ʁ].
2. Vowels
2.1.  Stressed vowels
Portuguese has a system of seven underlying vowels: /i, e, ɛ, a, ɔ, o, u/. See Table 4.3.6
Examples:
[i] vi [ˈvi] “I saw”
[e] vê [ˈve] “you see”
[ɛ] fé [ˈfɛ] “faith”
[a] vá [ˈva] “go”
[ɔ] avó [a.ˈvɔ] “grandmother”
[o] avô [a.ˈvo] “grandfather”
[u] tu [ˈtu] “you”
The tense/lax contrast [e, ɛ] and [o, ɔ] performs important functions in Portuguese.
It salients third singulars from first singulars in the second conjugation:
devo [ˈde.vu] “I should”
deve [ˈdɛ.vi] “he should”
and it is a major result of Portuguese vowel harmony. When a verb’s theme vowel is deleted
in first person singular present tense forms, often the only clue as to conjugation member-
ship is the harmonized stressed vowel:
moro [ˈmɔ.ɾu] First Conjugation – “I reside”
movo [ˈmo.vu] Second Conjugation – “I move”
Tense/lax mid‐vowels also help distinguish words that belong to different lexical classes,
particularly verbs and nouns, such as:
bolo (N) [ˈbo.lu] “cake”
bolo (V) [ˈbɔ.lu] “I prepare”
meta (N) [ˈmɛ.ta] “goal”
meta (V) [ˈme.ta] “put in (Imperative)”
Table 4.3  Vowel phonemes.
i e ɛ a u o ɔ
High + – – – + – –
Tense + + – – + + –
Back – – – – + + +
Round – – – – + + +
Low – – – + – – –
62  Gladis Massini-Cagliari, Luiz Carlos Cagliari, and Wayne J. Redenbarger
As was shown by instrumental studies in Redenbarger (2005), even those EP dialects
which have begun to neutralize some tense / lax contrasts carefully maintain the tense / lax
­
distinctions produced by vowel harmony in verbs.
Wetzels (1997; 2011) reveals that the distribution of stressed upper and lower mid‐vowels
in BP is to a large extent predictable, on the basis of phonological, prosodic, or morphological
conditionings.
In BP, the phoneme /a/ is commonly realized as a back low vowel [ɑ] when followed
by the back glide /w/ in diphthongs: calma [ˈkɑw.ma] “calm”; saudade [sɑwˈda.ʤi]
­
“nostalgia” (Cagliari, 1999: 106; 2007: 69–71). In unstressed EP syllables the usual realiza-
tion of [a] is [ɐ]: saudade [sɐw.ˈda.dɨ] “nostalgia,” but before velar [ƚ] EP also has [ɑ] caldo
[ˡkɑƚ.du] “crock.”
One of the salient features of the EP vowel system as compared to BP is the occurrence of
[ɐ] and [ɨ] from underlying [a] and [i] in unstressed syllables,
EP: casa /ˈka.za/ [ˈka.zɐ] “house”
deve /ˈdɛ.ve/ [ˈdɛ́.vɨ] “he should”
BP: casa /ˈka.za/ [ˈka.za] “house”
deve /ˈdɛ.vi/ [ˈdɛ́.vi] “he should”
The articulatory basis of the EP vowels was studied in Redenbarger (1982). He posits that
tensing, i.e. genio‐glossus contraction, is common to both [ɐ] and [ɨ], allowing for a unifica-
tion of the unstressed tensing of [a] → [ɐ] with the [i] → [ɨ] process. One advantage of that
analysis is that it explains why BP which does not tense unstressed [a] also does not have
unstressed [ɨ]. This high [ɨ] vowel is worthy of much further instrumental and myoelectric
investigation.
Another striking feature of EP when compared with BP is the greater occurrence of
voiceless vowels. In BP, voiceless vowels are only found in word‐final position before
pause, and not always then. In EP they are regularly found in that and other contexts. EP
voiceless vowels may also be deleted when they occur in unstressed syllables. Vowel loss
often occurs when there is a liquid consonant in the syllable which can become syllabic.
This vowel deletion has substantial impact on the intercomprehensibility between
speakers of BP and of EP.
EP: verdade [veɾ.ˈda.dɨ] / [veɾ.ˈda.dɨ̥] / [vɾ̩ˈda.dɨ̥] “truth”
pote [ˈpɔ.tɨ] / [ˈpɔ.tɨ̥] / [ˈpɔt] “pot”
Portugal [poɾ.tu.ˈɡɑƚ], puɾ.tu.ˈɡɑƚ], [pu̥ɾ.tu.ˈɡaƚ] “Portugal”
BP: verdade [veɾ.ˈda.ʤi], [veɾ.ˈda.ʤi̥], “truth”
pote [ˈpɔ.ʧi], [ˈpɔ.ʧi̥], “pot”
In the Lisbon variety of EP, the pronunciation of [ɐj] instead of [ej] is characterisic, as in
­
primeiro [pɾiˈmej.ɾu]/[pɾiˈmɐj.ɾu] “first.” In colloquial Lisbon speech, this pronunciation
typically extends to all prepalatal contexts: espelho: [ɨ̥ʃ ˈpe.ʎu]/[ɨ̥ʃ ˈpɐ.ʎu] “mirror”; tenho
[ˈte.ɲu] / [ˈtɐ.ɲu] “I have.” This innovation is one of the most salient features distinguishing
the Lisbon dialect from the other EP prestige dialects, such as the one spoken in Coimbra,
where this Lisbon innovation was not adopted.
A Comparative Study of the Sounds of European and Brazilian Portuguese  63
In dialects of the Azores archipelago front rounded vowels appear, e.g. [ø] associated with
the spelling <ou> is found in verbs forms like falou [fɐˈlow]/[fɐˈlø] “he said.”
2.2.  Nasal vowels, nasalized vowels
Portuguese has five (surface) distinctive nasal vowels: [ı̃, ẽ, ɐ̃, õ, ũ].
Examples:
sinto [ˈsĩ.tu] “I feel”
tempo [ˈtẽ.pu] “time”
amplo [ˈɐ͂.plu] “ample”
pombo [ˈpõ.bu] “dove”
cumpro [ˈkũ.pɾu] “I fulfill”
Portuguese vowels tense before a nasal consonant7
:
move [ˈmɔ.vi]  “he moves” vs. come [ˈko.mi]  “he eats”
cara [ˈka.ɾa]  “face” vs. cama [ˈkɐ.ma] “bed”
In addition to tensing, they nasalize when the following nasal closes their syllable.
come [ˈko.mi] “he eats” vs. compre [ˈkõ.pɾi] “he buys”
teme [ˈte.mi] “he fears” vs. tempo [ˈtẽ.pu] “time”
This generates the singularly Portuguese phonetic distribution [a], [ɐ], and [ɐ̃], where [a] is
lax but [ɐ] and [ɐ̃] are tense:
cara [ˈka.ɾa] “face”
cama [ˈkɐ.ma] “bed”
canta [ˈkɐ̃.ta] “he sings”
In BP, in addition to this phonological tensing and nasalization, there is (almost) obligatory
phonetic nasalization of a stressed vowel preceding a nasal onset consonant:
Nasal vowels (nasal in coda):
junta [ˈʒũ.ta] “he gathers” vs. juta [ˈʒu.ta] “jute”
cinto [ˈsĩ.tu] “belt” vs. sito [ˈsi.tu] “placed”
lenda [ˈlẽ.da] “legend” vs. Leda [ˈle.da] “Leda”
Nasalized vowels (nasal in onset):
ano [ˈɐ̃.nu] / [ˈɐ.nu] “year”
cima [ˈsĩ.ma] / [ˈsi.ma] “top”
Since [ɐ] is always the realization of /a/ in a nasal environment, it cannot be considered a
different phoneme, at least in BP. In EP, there is a limited contrast between [a] and [ɐ] in verb
forms like cantamos [kɐ̃ˈta.mus] “we sang” (past perfect) vs. cantamos [kɐ̃ˈtɐ̃.mus] “we sing”
(present). In BP, the pronunciation [kɐ̃ˈtɐ̃.mus] is used for both the present and the past
­
perfect, as regularly follows from the productive rules of nasalization in this variant.
64  Gladis Massini-Cagliari, Luiz Carlos Cagliari, and Wayne J. Redenbarger
2.3.  Unstressed vowels
In standard Paulista BP, the pretonic vowels are: /i, e, a, o, u/.
Although there is no contrast between mid‐vowels in unstressed position, unstressed
lower mid‐vowels [ɛ, ɔ] do occur at the phonetic level in BP. This variation is geographical;
in the north and northeast of Brazil, in pretonic position the variation comprises [ɛ, e, i]:
Recife [heˈsi.fi] / [hiˈsi.fi] / [hɛˈsi.fi] “Recife” (city). The same happens to back vowels [ɔ, o, u]:
boneca [boˈnɛ.ka] / [buˈnɛ.ka] / [bɔˈnɛ.ka] “doll.” This phenomenon extends to Minas Gerais
and Espírito Santo, in the southeast.8
Southern dialects tend to use closed vowels [e/i], [o/u].
Sociolinguistic studies on the realization of pretonic vowels in BP show that this variation is
quite widespread. Indeed, there are words in which three different vowels can occur in
pretonic position within the same speech community: lower mid‐ [ɛ, ɔ], upper mid‐ [e, o] or
high [i, u] vowels.9
Unlike BP, in normal speed EP the unstressed vowels which occur in pretonic position are
[ɐ, ɨ, u]: café [kɐˈfɛ] “coffee”; poder [puˈdeɾ] “power”; dever [dɨˈveɾ] “duty.”
In both BP and EP, in word‐final unstressed positions, the vowel system is reduced to
three vowels.
Word‐finally in BP, the back rounded vowel /u/ is phonetically realized as a vowel with
a somewhat lower and slightly more centralized quality [ʊ]: porto /ˈpoɾ.tu/ [ˈpoɾ.tʊ] “port.”
In the same context, the high front vowel is realized as [ɪ] (See Note 3).
[ʊ] tudo [ˈtu.dʊ] “all”
[ɪ] risque [ˈxis.kɪ] “scratch out”
In unstressed word‐final syllables of EP, we find the three unstressed vowels [ɐ, ɨ, u] plus the
unstressed [i] in a few words: casa [ˈka.zɐ] “house”; pote [ˈpɔ.tɨ] “pot”; rito [ˈri.tu] “ritual”; júri
[ˈʒu.ɾi] “jury” (Emiliano, 2009).
In summary, one of the most salient differences between BP and EP is the occurrence in
EP of the unstressed tense vowel [ɐ], where BP uses the lax vowel [a]. The vowel [ɐ] is
observed in BP only in rapid speech: casa [ˈka.za] / [ˈka.zɐ] “house” and is even then not the
tense [ɐ] of EP.
2.4. Glides
Both BP and EP present falling and rising phonetic diphthongs. Falling diphthongs are:
BP EP
/aj/ vai [ˈvaj] [ˈvaj] “goes”
/ej/ reitor [hejˈtoɾ] [rɐjˈtoɾ] “University Principal”
/ɔj/ mói [ˈmɔj] [ˈmɔj] “grinds”
/oj/ boi [ˈboj] [ˈboj] “ox”
/uj/ fui [ˈfuj] [ˈfuj] “I went”
/aw/ pau [ˈpɑw] [ˈpɑw] “stick”
saudade [sɑw.ˈda.ʤi] [sɑw.ˈda.dɨ] “nostalgia”
/ew/ seu [ˈsew] [ˈsew] “your”
/ɛw/ véu [ˈvɛw] [ˈvɛw] “veil”
/ow/ vou [ˈvow] [ˈvow] “I go”
/iw/ viu [ˈviw] [ˈviw] “you saw”
A Comparative Study of the Sounds of European and Brazilian Portuguese  65
Scholars distinguish traditionally for both BP and EP between true and false diphthongs
(Bisol, 1989; Mateus and d’Andrade, 2000).
True diphthongs are irreducible falling diphthongs, i.e., formed by a vowel plus a glide:
pai [ˈpaj] “father”; pau [ˈpɑw] “stick,” reitor [hej.ˈtoɾ] (BP) / [rɐj.ˈtoɾ] (EP) “University
Principal.” In BP, the diphthongs [ɔw] and [ɛw] appear as the result of the l‐vocalization in
the syllable coda.
sol /ˈsɔl/ [ˈsɔw] “sun”
mel /ˈmɛl/ [ˈmɛw] “honey”
[ɛj] also appears in the plural ending of words of which the singular ends in /el/:
pincel [pĩ.ˈsɛw] “brush”
pincéis [pĩ.ˈsɛjs] “brushes” (plural)
False diphthongs are reducible diphthongs, which can be phonetically realized as monoph-
thongs or diphthongs, depending on the phonetic context. In BP, the presence of [ʃ] or [ɾ] in
the onset of a following syllable creates a context that favors the alternation between diph-
thongs and monophthongs.
peixe [ˈpej.ʃi] / [ˈpe.ʃi] “fish”
caixa [ˈkaj.ʃa] / [ˈka.ʃa] “box”
ouro [ˈow.ɾu] / [ˈo.ɾu] “gold”
In EP, the diphthongs /ej/ and /aj/ become [ɐj] and the diphthong /ow/ may vary with the
sound [oj]: peixe [ˈpɐj.ʃɨ] “fish”; caixa [ˈkɐj.ʃa] “box”; ouro [ˈow.ɾu] / [ˈoj.ɾu] “gold.”
Both in BP and EP, rising diphthongs are more appropriately interpreted as a
sequence of vowels (hiatus), which are variably realized as rising diphthongs (Bisol,
1994; Mateus and d’Andrade, 2000): quiabo [kiˈa.bu] / [ˈkja.bu] “okra”; [suˈaɾ] / [ˈswaɾ]
suar “to sweat.”
There are also rising diphthongs which never alternate with vowel sequences. Those
diphthongsaretypicallyfoundafteravelarstop,suchasinliquido[ˈli.kwi.du]/*[ˈli.ku.i.du]“liquid,”
água [ˈa.ɡwa]/ *[ˈa.ɡu.a] “water,” qualidade [kwa.li.ˈda.ʤi]/*[ku.a.li.ˈda.ʤi] “quality,” aguen-
tar [a.ɡwẽn.ˈtaɾ]/ *[a.ɡu.ẽn.ˈtaɾ] “to put up with.” In a few rare cases, in BP, the phonetic
diphthong may alternate with a single consonant: líquido [ˈli.kwi.du]/[ˈli.ki.du] “liquid,” quota
[ˈkwɔ.ta]/[ˈkɔ.ta] “share.”
The formation of possible triphthongs occurs only as the realization of sequences of/ kw,
gw/ followed by a falling diphthong (which could be derived from an underlying sequence
of vowel plus alveolar lateral):
qual [ˈkwɑw] “which – sing.”
quais [ˈkwajs] “which – pl.”
2.5.  Nasal diphthongs
Nasal diphthongs may be the phonetic realization of an underlying VN sequence in the
­
syllable rhyme in BP, both word‐internally and word‐finally. In EP, nasal diphthongs may
not be followed by the nasal consonant.
66  Gladis Massini-Cagliari, Luiz Carlos Cagliari, and Wayne J. Redenbarger
BP EP
pente [ˈpẽn.ʧi] / [ˈpẽȷ̃n.ʧi] / [ˈpẽȷ̃.ʧi] [ˈpẽ.tɨ] “comb”
penca [ˈpẽŋ.ka] / [ˈpẽȷ̃ŋ.ka] / [ˈpẽȷ̃.ka] [ˈpẽ.kɐ] “bunch”
conto [ˈkõn.tu] / [ˈkõw̃n.tu] / [ˈkõw̃.tu] [ˈkõ.tu] “short story”
bomba [ˈbõm.ba] / [ˈbõw̃m.ba] / [ˈbõw̃.ba] [ˈbõ.bɐ] “bomb”
In word‐medial position, a stressed vowel is commonly pronounced as a nasal diphthong
before a palatal nasal consonant in the following onset. In EP, instead of [e]/[ej] we find [ɐ]
and [ɐj], before a palatal, which are usually not nasalized. In some varieties of BP, the palatal
nasal may drop: banha [ˈbɐ̃ȷ̃.a] “lard.” In this case, the nasal glide is ambisyllabic, occupying
at the same time the coda of the previous syllable and the onset of the following: banha [ˈbɐ̃ȷ̃.
ȷ̃a] “lard.”
BP EP
banha [ˈbɐ̃.ɲa] / [ˈbɐ̃ȷ̃.ɲa] [ˈbɐ.ɲɐ] “lard”
venha [ˈvẽ.ɲa] / [ˈvẽȷ̃.ɲa] [ˈvɐ.ɲɐ] “come”
fronha [ˈfɾõ.ɲa] / [ˈfɾõȷ̃.ɲa] [ˈfɾo.ɲɐ] “pillow case”
unha [ˈũ.ɲa] / [ˈũȷ̃.ɲa] [ˈu.ɲɐ] “nail”
linha [ˈlı̃.ɲa] / [ˈlı̃ȷ̃.ɲa] [ˈli.ɲɐ] “line”
There are also nasal diphthongs which occur in derived inflected forms for both BP
and EP:
Singular Plural
cão [kɐ͂w̃] cães [kɐ̃ȷ̃s] “dog”
limão [li.ˈmɐ̃w̃] limões [liˈ.mõȷ̃s] “lemon”
cidadão [si.da.ˈdɐ̃w̃] cidadãos [si.da.ˈdɐ̃w̃s] “citizen”
mão [mɐ̃w̃] mãos [mɐ̃w̃s] “hand”
In several dialects in BP, but typically in São Paulo state, a few words have an underlying
falling diphthong with an anterior glide that may be nasalized or not when followed by a
nasal in the following syllable.
teima [ˈtej.ma] / [ˈtẽȷ̃.ma] “stubbornness”
reino [ˈhej.nu] / [ˈhẽȷ̃.nu] “kingdom”
Roraima [ho.ˈɾaj.ma] / [ho.ˈɾɐ̃ȷ̃.ma] “Roraima” (a state of Brazil)
Falling diphthong with a posterior glide followed by a nasal consonant in the onset of the
subsequent syllable are usually not nasalized: trauma [ˈtɾɑw.ma] “trauma”; fauna [ˈfɑw.na]
“fauna.”
The word cãibra “cramp” has a very rare phonological structure with an underlying nasal
diphthong which cannot be reduced to a monophthong or vary with an oral diphthong—BP:
[ˈkɐ̃ȷ̃.bɾa]; EP: [ˈkɐ̃ȷ̃.bɾɐ].
In word‐final position, nasal diphthongs vary with a sequence of a nasal vowel plus a
nasal consonant, most typically in BP.
vem [ˈvẽȷ̃] / [ˈvẽɲ] “he comes”
fim [ˈfı̃ȷ̃] / [ˈfı̃ɲ] “end”
bom [ˈbõw̃] / [ˈbõŋ] “good”
A Comparative Study of the Sounds of European and Brazilian Portuguese  67
Abaurre, M. B. M. and M. F. S. Sandalo (2003).
Os róticos revisitados. In D. Hora and G.
Collischonn (eds.), Teoria Lingüística: Fonologia e
outros temas. João Pessoa‐PB: Editora
Universitária, pp. 144–180.
Bisol, L. (1989). O ditongo na perspectiva
da fonologia atual. D.E.L.T.A., 5 (2),
pp. 185–224.
Bisol, L. (1994). Ditongos derivados. D.E.L.T.A.,
10, pp. 121–140.
Cagliari, L. C. (1977). An experimental study of
nasality with particular reference to Brazilian
Portuguese. Ph.D. thesis, University of
Edinburgh.
Cagliari, L. C. (1997). Fonologia do português:
análise pela geometria de traços. Campinas:
Edição do Autor.
Cagliari, L. C. (1999). Fonologia do português:
análise pela geometria de traços e pela fonologia
lexical. Campinas: Edição do Autor.
Cagliari, L. C. (2002). Análise fonológica:
introdução à teoria e à prática, com especial
destaque para o modelo fonêmico. Campinas:
Mercado de Letras.
Cagliari, L. C. (2007). Elementos de fonética do
português brasileiro. São Paulo: Ed. Paulistana.
Câmara Jr., J. M. (1953). Para o estudo da fonêmica
portuguesa. Rio de Janeiro: Organizações Simões.
Câmara Jr., J. M. (1970). Estrutura da língua
portuguesa. Petrópolis: Editora Vozes.
Carmo, M. C. (2013). As vogais médias pretônicas
na variedade do interior paulista. São José do Rio
Preto: UNESP. Ph.D. thesis.
Collischonn, G. (2002) A epêntese vocálica no
português do Sul do Brasil. In L. Bisol and
C. Brescancini (eds.), Fonologia e Variação:
recortes do Português Brasileiro. Porto Alegre:
EDIPURS, pp. 205–230.
Emiliano, A. (2009) Fonética do Português Europeu:
Descrição e Transcrição. Lisbon: Guimarães.
Notes
1	 See also Chapters 2, 30, and 31.
2	 There is some disagreement among phoneticians and phonologists working on BP about how
unstressed word‐final high vowels should be represented, frequently used transcriptions being [ɪ, ʊ]
and [i, u]. From a phonetic point of view, word‐final unstressed high vowels are underachieved
vowels which are slightly centralized and slightly lowered which would suggest a transcription
using the IPA symbols [ɪ, ʊ]. For reasons of homogeneity, we have adopted here the transcription [i, u]
for all unstressed high vowels in BP.
3	 There is a controversy about whether in words like advogado the high front vowel is epenthetic or
lexical (phonologically /e/, following Cagliari, 2002, 2007; Massini‐Cagliari, 2005. See also Cagliari,
1997: 75–78; Collischonn, 2002).
4	 Examples adapted from Wetzels (2000).
5	 See Chapter 7.
6	Different feature systems have been proposed by different phonologists studying Portuguese
vowels. For reasons of expository coherence we use here the system based on Redenbarger (1982),
who uses the feature [tense] to distinguish two series of mid vowels. For the use of ATR, see Wetzels
(1997); for arguments in favour of a 4‐height system for BP see Wetzels (2011). Different proposals
opposing the features ATR, tense, open, etc. to define the BP vocalic system have been discussed by
Wetzels (1997: 299–301). Cagliari (2007) uses a more phonetic approach to the problem.
7	 There is variation before nasal consonants between upper and lower mid‐vowels in a few words,
such as fome [ˈfɔ.mi]/ [ˈfɔ̃.mi] / [ˈfo.mi]/ [ˈfõ.mi] “hunger” and treme [ˈtɾɛ.mi] / [ˈtɾɛ̃.mi]/[ˈtɾe.mi]/
[ˈtɾẽ.mi] “he trembles” (Cagliari, 2007, p. 86).
8	 Carmo (2013) compared a number of studies for the quality of pretonic vowels in BP showing that
variation among the upper and lower mid qualities is widespread. Lee and Oliveira (2003) show
that there is unpredictable variation in the production of a single person relating to different words,
which suggests a lexical conditioning.
9  See Chapters 5 and 30.
References
68  Gladis Massini-Cagliari, Luiz Carlos Cagliari, and Wayne J. Redenbarger
Lee, S.‐H. and M. A. Oliveira (2003). Variação
inter‐ e intra‐dialetal no Português Brasileiro:
um problema para a teoria fonológica. In D.
Hora and G. Collischonn (eds.), Teoria
linguística: fonologia e outros temas. João Pessoa:
Editora Universitária. pp. 67–91.
Massini‐Cagliari, G. (2005). A música da fala dos
trovadores: Estudos de prosódia do Português
Arcaico, a partir das cantigas profanas e religiosas.
Thesis (Livre‐Docência em Fonologia),
Universidade Estadual Paulista.
Mateus, M. H. M., A. A. Andrade, M. C. Viana, and
A. Villalva (1990). Fonética, Fonologia e Morfologia
do Português. Lisbon: Universidade Aberta.
Mateus, M. H. and E. d’Andrade (2000). The
Phonology of Portuguese. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Monaretto, V. N. O. (1997). Um reestudo da
vibrante: análise variacionista e fonológica.
Ph.D. thesis, Porto Alegre PUC‐RS.
Redenbarger, W. J. (1982). Articulator Features and
Portuguese Vowel Height. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press.
Redenbarger, W. J. (2005). Pre nasal laxing in
European Portuguese. In D. Eddington (ed.),
Selected Proceedings of the Seventh Hispanic
Linguistics Symposium. Somerville:
Cascadilla.
Tasca, M. (2002). Variação e mudança do
segmento lateral na coda silábica. In L. Bisol
and C. Brescancini (eds.), Fonologia e Variação:
recortes do Português Brasileiro. Porto Alegre:
EDIPURS, pp. 303–312.
Wetzels, W. L. (1997). The lexical representation
of nasality in Brazilian Portuguese, Probus, 9
(2), pp. 203–232.
Wetzels, W. L. (2000). Consoantes palatais como
geminadas fonológicas no português
brasileiro. Revista de Estudos da Linguagem, 9
(2), pp. 5–15.
Wetzels, W. L. (2011) Aperture features
and the representation of vowel
neutralization in Brazilian Portuguese.
In E. Hume, J. Goldsmith, and W. L. Wetzels
(eds.), Tones and Features. Berlin: de Gruyter,
pp. 331–359.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
In this chapter, we discuss the processes of Vowel Neutralization (VNeu), Mid‐Vowel
Harmony (MVH), and Vowel Nasalization (VNas). Of these processes, VNeu and VNas are
active in the vowel systems of both European (EP) and Brazilian (BP) Portuguese, whereas
MVH is only found in BP. We will propose a rule‐based analysis of these processes, modeled
in the framework of Feature Geometry.
VNeu in Portuguese may affect both unstressed and stressed mid‐vowels. Although our
focus will be on Unstressed Vowel Neutralization (UVNeu), Stressed Mid‐Vowel neutraliza-
tion will be briefly discussed also. We will analyze unstressed as well as stressed VNeu in
both varieties as a mechanism of feature deletion followed by respecification with the
unmarked features. Particularly with regard to UVNeu we show that in BP contrastive aper-
ture features are progressively deleted, whereas in EP the set of neutralizable segments are
merged in a single operation.
MVH is a variable rule of all regional variants of BP. It applies in the part of the word that
precedes the main stress and only affects mid‐vowels. In contemporary EP, this process is
inoperative.
EP and BP possess a set of contrastive nasal vowels and nasal diphthongs. The ongoing
debate among phonologists is whether the oral vs. nasal contrast in vowels and diphthongs
is phonological or phonetic. We will follow here the mainstream analysis for BP and EP nasal
vowels, which derives these sounds from an underlying /VN/ sequence. For the nasal diph-
thongs, we will propose a representation in which the nasal feature is associated with the
syllable rhyme.
2.  Unstressed vowel neutralization
UVNeu is a process that reduces the set of contrastive vowel features under specific prosodic
conditions. In BP, UVNeu applies gradiently in the sense that it progressively reduces the
Phonological Processes
Affecting Vowels:
Neutralization, Harmony,
and Nasalization
Leda Bisol and João Veloso
5
70  Leda Bisol and João Veloso
number of height distinctions in the vowel system. In EP, UVNeu results from two different
operations, one is neutralization, the other centralization. In this study, we will conceive of
neutralization as a process by which contrastive features are removed from the representa-
tion of vowel segments in specific prosodic positions.
According to the typology of neutralization processes proposed by Trubetzkoy (1967: 77,
82–87), UVNeu in EP and BP belong to different types. Trubetzkoy distinguishes four types
of neutralization, of which the first and third types are relevant for the variants of Portuguese
under discussion here.
For the first neutralization type, the representative of the neutralizable opposition that
appears in the neutralization context does not coincide with either term of the opposition.
Instead, it corresponds to:
Trubetzkoy Type 1
(a)  an intermediary sound, phonetically related to both terms of the opposition; or
(b)  
a sound which, in addition to the features shared by both segments, has specific features
of its own.
The third neutralization type is internally conditioned, that is to say, the choice of one of the terms
of the opposition as the outcome of the neutralization process only relates to the segments of the
neutralized set, without being dependent on contiguous segments. This neutralization type
can involve two kinds of phonological oppositions—privative and gradient.
Trubetzkoy Type 3
(a)  
In privative oppositions involving a marked and an unmarked term, the marked
feature[+F] is neutralized in favour of unmarked [−F];
(b)  
in gradient oppositions, as in the aperture contrasts between vowels, the extreme term
of the opposition appears in the neutralization context.
From the perspective of Trubetzkoys typology of neutralization processes, UVNeu in EP is
somewhat ambiguous. The neutralized front vowels /i, e, ɛ/ are represented by a central
vowel, the precise phonetic definition of which is a matter of debate among phoneticians
(see below). At least superficially, this part of the process could be interpreted as a (1b) type
of neutralization. On the other hand, the neutralization of the set of labial vowels /u, o, ɔ/,
which is phonetically represented by /u/, belongs to Trubetzkoy’s type (3b). As for BP, we
will argue that UVNeu involves two steps in a process of progressive neutralization that
affects a binary opposition between a marked and an unmarked feature in different contexts,
i.e. type (3a) in Trubetzkoy’s typology. Furthermore, although the neutralization of front
vowels in EP yields a central vowel that is not included in the set of neutralizable vowels, we
will argue that UVNeu in EP is best interpreted as the neutralization of the gradient opposi-
tion between lower‐mid, upper‐mid, and high vowels, representing an instance of case (3b)
in Trubetzkoy’s typology.
2.1.  Unstressed vowel neutralization in Brazilian Portuguese
Neutralization of BP unstressed vowels has been explained by different authors1
pertaining
to different theoretical backgrounds by way of three rules, each one applying in a different
environment: pretonic neutralization (cf. (1a) below), non‐final post‐tonic neutralization
(cf. (1b)), and word‐final neutralization (cf. (1c)).
Phonological Processes Affecting Vowels: Neutralization, Harmony, and Nasalization  71
(1) a.  Pretonic
ˈb[ɛ]lo ~ b[e]ˈleza “handsome” ~ “beauty”
ˈk[ɔ]lo ~ k[o]ˈlar “I glue” ~ “to glue”
b. Non‐final post‐tonic:
ˈfosf[o]ro ~ ˈfosf[u]ro “match”
c. Word‐final:
ˈverd[e] ~ ˈverd[i] “green”
ˈkol[o] ~ ˈkol[u] “I glue”
Just as in pretonic syllables, lower mid‐vowels do not occur in post‐tonic syllables. According
to Câmara Jr. (1970), in prefinal post‐tonic syllables there is a tendency for dorsal upper‐mid vowels
to be realized as high vowels (cf. (1b)). In this chapter, we will not be concerned with this
phenomenon, since evidence has been advanced suggesting that, in the southern varieties
of BP, this process is better described as variable mid‐vowel raising, which also involves /e/
(Vieira, 1994).
Consider the words below, which show the productivity of mid‐vowel neutralization in
pretonic syllables (2a) as well as the neutralization of the contrast between the three series of
non‐low vowels word‐finally (2c).
(2) a. Neutralization of the contrast between upper‐ and lower‐mid vowels in pretonic
syllables
ˈb[ɛ]la ~ b[e]ˈleza “beautiful (fem)” ~ “beauty”
ˈm[ɔ]le ~ m[o]ˈleza “soft” ~ “softness”
ˈm[ɛ]scla ~ m[e]sˈclado “mixture” ~ “mixed”
ˈm[ɔ]rte ~ m[o]rˈtal “death” ~ “deadly”
m[ɛ]l ~ m[e]ˈlado “honey” ~ “molasses”
s[ɔ]l ~ s[o]ˈlaço “sun” ~ “great good sun”
b. Exceptions
ˈb[ɔ]la ~ b[ɔ]ˈlinha “ball” ~ “little ball” *b[o]linha
ˈf[ɔ]rte ~ f[ɔ]rˈtissimo “strong” ~ “very strong” *f[or]rtíssimo
m[ɛ]l ~ m[ɛ]lˈzinho “honey” ~ “delicious honey” *m[e]lzinho
ˈf[ɔ]rte ~ f[ɔ]rteˈmente    
”strong” ~ “strongly”      *f[o]rtement[e]
c. Neutralization of non‐low vowels word‐finally in unstressed open syllables and
in syllables closed by /s/.
com[e]mos ~ com[i] “eat‐1pl. pr. ind.” ~ “eat‐3si. pr. ind.”
abat[e]dor ~ bat[i]      “butcher” ~ “beat-3si. pr. ind.”
lev[e]zinho ~ lev[i]      “very light” ~ “light”
camp[o]nês ~ camp[u] “countryman” ~ “field”
mat[o]rral ~ mat[u] “dense bush” ~ “bush”
pov[o]ar ~ pov[u] “populate” ~ “people”
Londr[e]s ~ Londr[i]s “London”
Because of neutralization, BP realizes three different vowel systems in different prosodic
contexts through a progressive reduction of the aperture distinctions: /a, ɛ, e, i, u, o, ɔ/—/a,
e, i, u, o/—/ a, i, u/. As a consequence of the neutralization of the mid‐vowel contrast, the
set of seven vowels that occurs in stressed syllables is reduced to a five‐vowel system with a
single mid‐vowel series in unstressed syllables. The further neutralization of the remaining
mid‐vowel series and the corresponding high vowels creates the basic three‐vowel system
found in word‐final unstressed open syllables.
72  Leda Bisol and João Veloso
With regard to pretonic UVNeu, a set of systematic exceptions is found, involving the suffixes,
‐(z)inho, ‐mente, and –íssimo, exemplified in (2)b. To explain the exceptional behavior of these
words, two different hypotheses have been considered:
(a)	 The suffixes ‐mente (adverbial), ‐(z)inho (evaluative), and ‐íssimo (superlative) are prosodic
words, so words like s[ɔ]lzinho “agreeable sun” e f [ɔ]rtemente “stongly” must be interpreted as
compounds. This analysis is defended in Leite (1974), Menuzzi (1993), and Schwindt (2013).
(b)	 The mentioned suffixes are a special set of suffixes, being attached at a level in the
grammar in which pretonic neutralization no longer applies. This proposal is worked
out in different ways by different scholars in various versions of lexical phonology. See,
for example, Villalva (2000), Mateus and d’Andrade (2000), Bisol (2010). Here we just
want to have mentioned this class of systematic exceptions, without taking position
with regard to the explanation of their deviant behavior.
The progressive loss of mid‐vowels is caused by the neutralization of aperture distinctions
in weak prosodic positions. In Table 5.1, we distinguish the four aperture degrees relevant
for Portuguese stressed vowels by the multiple use of a binary [± open] feature, following
Clements (1991).
The first [open] feature divides the aperture space in [+open] and [−open]. The [‐open1
] space
is divided into [−open2
] and [+open2
] giving way to a series of mid‐vowels, in addition to the low
and high vowels. Finally, the [+open2
] space is further divided into [−open3
] and [+open3
],
­
creating a contrast between two series of mid‐vowels, one upper‐mid, the other lower‐mid.
Adopting Wetzels’ (1992, 2011) modelling of obligatory unstressed vowel neutralization
in BP, we propose the rule in (3).
(3) a.  Neutralization of the lower‐ and upper‐mid vowel series in BP:
Delete [+open3
] in unstressed syllables
Domain: Phonological Word
Root [+vocoid]
Aperture
[+open3] ( [–open3])
As a first step in the neutralization process of upper‐ and lower‐mid vowels, the marked
(positive) [+open3
] feature is dissociated from the aperture node in unstressed nuclei, where
it is automatically substituted by the negative (unmarked) [‐open3] feature. The process
applies to all unstressed syllables, pretonic as well as post‐tonic, as a consequence of which
the lower‐mid vowels /ɛ, ɔ/ only occur under main stress.
Table 5.1  Aperture distinctions in Portuguese stressed syllables.
i/u e/o ɛ/ɔ a
open1
– – – +
open2
– + + +
open3
– – + +
Phonological Processes Affecting Vowels: Neutralization, Harmony, and Nasalization  73
(3)  b.  Neutralization of the mid‐vowel and high‐vowel series in unstressed
word‐final syllables which are open or closed by /s/ in BP:
Delete [+open2]/__(s)##
Root [+vocoid]
Aperture
[+open2] ( [–open2])
The rule in (3b) deletes the marked [+open2
] feature form unstressed word‐final syllables
that are either open or closed by /s/. This rule is obligatory and categorical in most varieties
of BP. Nevertheless, due to bilingualism or in areas along the Brazilian border with Spanish‐
speaking countries, word‐final neutralization can be variable or optional: bol[o] ~ bol[u]
“cake,” val[e] ~ val[i] “valley.”
UVNeu in BP is a prosodically conditioned rule targeting a gradient opposition of aper-
ture degrees which are successively eliminated to create three different vowel subsystems:
the most elaborate seven‐vowel system appears in the strongest prosodic position, i.e. under
main stress; a five vowel system occurs in the prosodically weaker unstressed syllables; the
smallest three‐vowel system functions in the weakest prosodic position, which is the
unstressed word‐final open syllable.
The figure (4) below shows the progressive neutralization of the contrastive aperture fea-
tures through the successive substitution of the marked values of the [± open] feature by the
unmarked negative values on the [open3
] and [open2
] tiers:
(4) 
open1
open2 +
open3
i/u
–
a
Aperture
e/o
+
–
–
+ –
+ –
–
ɛ/ɔ
+
2.2.  Unstressed vowel neutralization in European Portuguese
In EP, UVNeu acts differently upon coronal and labial vowels. While labial vowels merge
into /u/, the coronal vowels are represented by a central vowel, different from any vowel
that belongs to the neutralized set. Gonçalves Viana (1973 [1892]), Mateus (1982), Mateus
and Delgado‐Martins (1982) and Delgado‐Martins (1996), among others, transcribe the
central vowel as [ə], whereas in more recent studies it is transcribed as [ɨ] (Mateus and
d’Andrade 2000; Vigário 2001; Veloso 2010).
UVNeu in EP applies to derived and underived words alike. It affects all unstressed
vowels, regardless of their position in the word, except word‐initially, where [ɨ] is not
allowed. The following alternations show the productivity of the raising/centralization
­
process. Examples were taken from Mateus and d´Andrade (2000: 18) and Mateus (1982: 29).
74  Leda Bisol and João Veloso
(5)  a.  Pre‐tonic, underived words b.  Pre‐tonic, derived words
morar  m[u]rar “to live in” f[ɛ]sta ´party” ~ f[ɨ]stinha “small party”
f[o]go “fire” ~ f[u]geira “fireplace”
m[ɛ]l “honey” ~ m[ɨ]lado “molasses”
p[ɔ]rta “door” ~ p[u]rteiro “doorman”
murar  m[u]rar “to build a wall”
pagar  p[ɐ]gar “to pay”
pegar  p[ɨ]gar “to take”
c.  Non‐final post‐tonic d.  Final unstressed
pérola  per[u]la “pearl” júri jur[i] “jury”
báculo  bac[u]lo “staff” jure jur[ɨ] “he/she swears‐subj”
ágape  ag[ɐ]pe “agape” juro jur[u] “I swear‐ ind.”
Some unsystematic exceptions to word‐final centralization exist, as exemplified in (5d) by
the word júri “jury,” providing evidence that neutralization takes precedence over centrali-
zation in front vowels. Nonetheless, unstressed word‐final [i] is very rare in EP. In the
northern dialects it is usually centralized: júr[ɨ], táx[ɨ], etc.
One may interpret the EP variant of UVNeu as a two‐step process. As a first step, the con-
trast between high, upper‐mid, and lower‐mid vowels is neutralized in favor of the
corresponding high vowels. Subsequently, the coronal high vowel, together with the low
vowel, are centralized. The differential behavior of the features [coronal], which is lost in the
neutralization process, and [labial], which is preserved (Veloso 2013), in addition to the his-
torical evidence showing that neutralization and centralization began to act in different
stages of the history of the language (Marquilhas 2003; Mattos and Silva 2008; Paiva 2008,
2009; Maia 2013) suggest that two different rules, neutralization and centralization, are active
in EP, as earlier proposed by Veloso (2013).
In present‐day EP, there is no evidence for a two‐step BP‐like neutralization process with
progressive neutralization of the [±open3
] and [±open2
] aperture contrasts. Unstressed
mid‐vowels are found mainly as unsystematic exceptions, most of them as a remnant from
past stages of the language. In present‐day EP, vowel reduction is a single lexical rule of neu-
tralization with a considerable number of exceptions.2
As an instance of Trubetzkoy’s type (3b) neutralization, both upper‐ and lower‐mid
vowels are replaced by the corresponding high vowels. This implies the deletion of the rele-
vant aperture features and their subsequent replacement by the unmarked feature values,
which, for unstressed vowels, are the negative values.
(6)  Neutralization of high, upper‐mid, and lower‐mid contrasts in EP
Delete [+open3, 2
]/unstressed syllables
Domain: Phonological Word
Aperture
Root [+vocoid]
[+open2] ( [–open2])
[+open3] ( [–open3])
Phonological Processes Affecting Vowels: Neutralization, Harmony, and Nasalization  75
As before, we assume that after the removal of the contrastive features from the relevant
tiers, the unmarked negative specifications are automatically provided, i.e. all mid‐vowels
surface as high vowels.
Instead of treating neutralization for labial vowels and centralization of coronal vowels as
two different processes, we opt here for a global process of neutralization creating high
vowels, with centralization of the high and the low vowels taken care of by a separate rule.
The rule‐ordering that we propose is shown in the following derivation:
(7)  /i, e, ɛ, a, ɔ, o, u/
i a
ɨ ɐ
u
n.a.
Neutralization
Centralization
The precise phonetic definition of the central vowel is a thorny issue. As was observed
by Veloso: “central vowels can be characterized as highly variable, unstable, ill‐defined
vocoids” (2010: 199).
Within the perspective of the above‐proposed analysis, one may suggest that the neutral-
ization rule is phonological, while centralization is a rule of allophony, active at the level of
the phonological word. The centralization rules concede some exceptions in the standard
language, which are not tolerated in non‐standard dialects of EP.
2.3.  Mid‐vowel neutralization in stressed syllables
in EP and BP
An interesting case of mid‐vowel neutralization occurs in stressed syllables in both varieties
of Portuguese, as observed in Wetzels (1992). Different from unstressed neutralization,
the vowel representing the neutralized mid‐vowel contrast in stressed syllables is always
lower‐mid.3
The process affects words with proparoxytonic stress and words with prefi-
nal stress that end in a heavy syllable. The examples in (8) show the productivity of the
process, called Dactylic Lowering by the author, in derived and underived proparoxy-
tonic words.4
(8) Dactylic Lowering
(a)  Underived words
m[ɛ́]dico  “physician”  ab[ɔ́]bora  “pumpkin”
h[ɛ́]lice “propeller” c[ɔ́]digo “code”
c[ɛ́]rebro “brain” l[ɔ́]bulo “lobule”
r[ɛ́]dea “bridle” [ɔ́]sseo “bony”
(b) Derived words
esquel[é]to	 “skeleton”	 esquel[ɛ́]tico	 “skeletal”
visig[ó]do	 “visigoth”	 visig[ɔ́]tico	“visigothic”
n[o]doˈar	 “to stain”	 n[ɔ́]doa	“stain”
ásp[e]ro	 “rough”	 asp[ɛ́]rrimo	 “very rough”
76  Leda Bisol and João Veloso
(9)  Dactylic Lowering
(σ σ σ )ω
ʹ Domain: phonological word (non-verbs)
Aperture
[open3]
In (9) above, neutralization is obtained by the deletion of the contrastive [open3
] feature.
However, since Dactylic Lowering applies in stressed syllables and given the preference of
stressed syllables for sonorant nuclei, Wetzels (1992) proposes that the unmarked value for
the [± open3
] feature is the positive value in stressed syllables.
A similar process, called Spondaic Lowering, applies in paroxytonic words with a final
heavy syllable. Some examples follow.
(10)  Spondaic Lowering
 m[ɔ́]vel “mobile” C[ɛ́]sar “Caesar”
 c[ɔ́]dex “codex” indel[ɛ́]vel “unerasable”
 d[ɔ́]lar “dollar” est[ɛ́]ril “sterile”
 m[ɔ́]rmon “Mormon” el[ɛ́]tron “electron”
 c[ɔ́]smos “cosmos” w[ɛ́]stern “western”
Both lowering rules are exceptionless in derived environments and near‐exceptionless in
underived words. Loan words with the appropriate structure undergo lowering: d[ɔ́]ping
“doping,” d[ɔ́]lar, “dollar,” W[ɛ́]ber “Weber.” As the names given to the rules suggest,
according to Wetzels (1992), these rules are conditioned by their specific rhythmical
patterns.
3.  Pretonic Mid‐Vowel Harmony in BP
Mid‐Vowel Harmony (MVH) is a variable phonological process which is part of the history of
BP, but completely absent in contemporary EP. MVH can be defined as a process of regressive
assimilation of pretonic mid‐vowels to a following high vowel within the domain of the pho-
nological word. Its variability is stable, without signs of the process becoming obligatory.
MVH has been widely documented with Labovian type sociolinguistic studies in all regions
of Brazil, as in Bisol (1981); Callou and Leite (1986); Maia (1986); Viegas (1987), (2001); Barbosa
daSilva(1989);Castro(1990);Bortoni,Gomes,andMalvar(1992);Schwindt(1995);Casagrande
(2004); Nascimento Silva (2009).
Factors that influence its application concern the distance between trigger and target, the
quality of the target and trigger vowels, as well as a number of non‐linguistic factors, as one
usually encounters for variable rules.
In the previous section it was shown that in the dialects of south and southwest Brazil the
sequence of syllables preceding the main stress realizes a five‐vowel system. In (11) below,
we repeat the way in which aperture distinctions for vowels are represented in the Clements
(1991) system of aperture contrasts. The full system in (11) represents the stressed vowel
system of BP. In pretonic syllables the aperture feature definitions for the mid‐vowels in the
Phonological Processes Affecting Vowels: Neutralization, Harmony, and Nasalization  77
southern dialects are those given for /e, o/, while in the northern and northeastern dialects,
the lower mid‐vowels /ɛ, ɔ/ prevail in that position.
(11)  Aperture distinctions for vowel phonemes
Aperture i/u e/o ε/ɔ a
open1
– – – +
open2
– + + +
open3
– – + +
The following words, taken from the studies cited above, illustrate the effect of MVH in
nouns and verbs.
(12) Nouns Verbs
b[o]nita ~ b[u]nita “pretty” b[e]bia ~ b[i]bia “(s)he drank”
c[o]stura ~ c[u]stura “sewing” c[o]rri ~ c[u]rri “(I) ran”
f[e]liz ~ f[i]liz “happy” m[o]via ~ m[u]via “(I) moved”
m[e]nino ~ m[i]nino “boy” m[e]ntirei ~ m[i]ntirei “(I) will lie”
pr[e]guiça ~ pr[i]guiça “laziness” f[e]rido ~ f[i]rido “hurt”
As the examples show, mid‐vowels become high before a high vowel in an immediately
­
following syllable. The low vowel /a/ does not trigger low harmony and acts as a
blocker: m[e]lancia “watermelon” does not become *m[i]lancia, despite the presence of a
stressed high vowel following /a/. Similarly, in the exceptional cases in which unstressed
lower‐mid vowels appear in the pretonic context (cf. the suffixes in (2b) above), raising
does not take place: b[ɛ]líssimo, *b[e]líssimo or *b[i]líssimo; b[ɔ]linha, not *b[o]linha or
*b[u]linha.
While in the southern dialects lower‐mid vowels are absent from the part of the word that
precedes the main stress, the northern and northeastern dialects have a preference for lower‐
mid vowels in this context. However, upper‐mid vowels emerge before a syllable with a high
nucleus, creating a considerable number of exceptions to the generalization that in these
dialects only pretonic lower‐mid vowels occur: f [ɛ]liz ~ f [e]liz “happy,” al[ɛ]gria ~ al[e]gria
“happiness,” f [ɔ]rtuna‐f [o]rtuna “fortune” (see Barbosa da Silva (1989), Nascimento Silva
(2009), and others). As in the southern dialects, mid‐vowels are raised one degree on the
aperture scale. In this respect the processes are identical, but the result of their application is
different: in the variants with pretonic upper-mid vowels total assimilation is obtained
whereas assimilation is only partial in dialects with pretonic lower-mid vowels. The processes
are exemplified in (13a) and (13b), respectively.
(13)  a. Total assimilation
V V
[aperture]
[+open2] [–open2]
[aperture]
V V
[aperture]
[+open3] [–open3]
[aperture]
b. Partial assimilation
In the southern dialects, where pretonic mid‐vowels are defined as [−open1
, +open2
, −open3
]
spreading of the [−open2
] feature of the high vowel creates high vowels out of upper‐mid
78  Leda Bisol and João Veloso
vowels, while in the northern dialects the spreading of the [−open3
] feature to the lower‐mid
vowels, defined as [−open1
, +open2
, +open3
], yields upper mid‐vowels. The following exam-
ples, taken from Nascimento Silva (2009: 193) enable one to compare the outcome of MVH
for the two dialect areas:
(14) South North and northeast
al[e]gria ~ al[i]gria al[ɛ]gria ~ al[e]gria “happiness”
b[e]bida ~ b[i]bida b[ɛ]bida ~ b[e]bida “drink”
f[e]liz ~ f[i]liz f[ɛ]liz ~ f[e]liz “happy”
f[o]rtuna ~ f[u]rtuna f[ɔ]rtuna ~ f[o]rtuna “fortune”
p[o]ssível ~ p[u]ssível p[ɔ]ssível ~ possível “possible”
pr[e]sidente ~ pr[i]sidente pr[ɛ]sidente ~ pr[e]sidente “president”
pr[o]cissao ~ pr[u]cissao pr[ɔ]cissão ~ pr[o]cissão “procession”
n[o]vidade ~ n[u]vidada n[ɔ]vidade ~ n[o]vidade “novelty”
In both variants of BP, MVH has the effect of raising the pretonic mid‐vowels one degree on
the aperture scale. This much has been established beyond doubt. For the northern and
northeastern dialects some researchers have claimed that complete assimilation is also
possible, as in the word al[ɛ]gria ~ al[e]gria ~ al[i]gria (cf. Barbosa da Silva, 1989; Nascimento
Silva. 2009).
According to Baković (2007), regressive assimilation can involve contiguous or non‐con-
tiguous targets, although usually, contiguity is a necessary condition for this process. In BP,
the assimilating feature may spread long distances. Long‐distance spreading can be
observed in both nouns and verbs, although in the latter category spreading may involve
non‐contiguous syllables. Examples are provided below.
(15)  Long distance MVH
a. Nouns
 m[e]r[e]cimento	 “merit”	 m[e]r[i]cimento ~ m[i]r[i]cimento	 *m[i]r[e]c[i]mento
 n[e]c[e]ssidade	 “need”	 n[e]c[i]ssidade ~ n[i]c[i]ssidade	 *n[i]c[e]ssidade
 p[e]r[e]grino	 “pilgrim”	 p[e]r[i]grino ~ p[i]r[i]grino	 *p[i]r[e]grino
 r[e]p[e]tição	 “repetition”	 r[e]p[i]tição ~ r[i]p[i]tição	 *r[i]p[e]tição
b. Verbs
 b[e]beria  “drink, 3sg cond.” b[e]b[e]ria ~ b[e]b[i]ria ~ b[i]b[i]ria ~ b[i]b[e]ria
c[o]rr[e]ria ~ c[o]rr[i]ria ~ c[u]rr[i]ria ~ c[u]rr[e]ria
p[o]d[e]ria ~ p[o]d[i]ria ~ p[u]d[i]ria ~ p[u]d[e]ria
s[o]fr[e]ria ~ s[o]fr[i]ria ~ s[u]fr[i]ria ~ s[u]fr[e]ria
 c[o]rreria  “run, 3sg cond.”
 p[o]deria  “be able, 3sg cond.”
 s[o]freria  “suffer, 3sg cond.”
Whereas spreading in nouns always affects contiguous syllables, in verbs syllables can be
skipped apparently. This is particularly visible in the class of /e/‐conjugation verbs, when
more than one mid‐vowel precedes an /i/‐initial suffix. Besides the cases of continuous har-
mony, one often finds a corresponding form in which the theme‐vowel remains unaffected by
MVH, as in the right column of the verbs in (15b). However, also in verb forms of other conju-
gations we observe the presence of high vowels, as in c[o]nseguir “succeed” ~ c[u]nseguir “I
succeed,” where /e/ is part of the root. At the same time, the sequence c[u]nsigo “I succeed” is
found as the 1si. present indicative form of the same verb, which could be interpreted as the
regular outcome of MVH. One might consequently think that, to explain the high vowel in the
Phonological Processes Affecting Vowels: Neutralization, Harmony, and Nasalization  79
first syllable of the infinitive c[u]nseguir “succeed,” some paradigmatic force is at work.
However, reality is more complex, as is shown by the verb forms g[o]verno ~ g[u]verno “I
govern” or g[o]vernaria ~ g[u]vernaria “I would govern.” Notice that the alternation in the latter
form cannot be explained by the high vowel of the suffix, since we have seen above that /a/ is
a blocker. Matters clear up if we consider alternations between mid‐vowels and high vowels
in  nouns: b[o]neca ~ b[u]neca “doll,” t[o]mate ~ t[u]mate “tomato,” g[o]verno ~ g[u]verno
“government,” where there is no trigger for MVH. As it appears, MVH co‐exists with a vari-
able process of mid‐vowel raising (MVR) in pretonic syllables.5
We may consequently explain
the cases of apparent non‐contiguous MVH in verbs as prosodically conditioned raising, sim-
ilar to what happens in post‐tonic and, particularly, in unstressed word‐final open syllables in
BP, where mid‐vowels are realized as high vowels.
(16)  MVR MVH
c[o]mer ~ c[u]mer “eat” c[u]m[e]ria ~ c[u]m[i]ria “I would eat”
c[o]rrer ~ c[u]rrer “run” c[u]rr[e]ria ~ c[u]rr[i]ria “I would run”
p[o]der ~ p[u]der “be able” p[u]d[e]ria ~ p[u]d[i]ria “I would be able”
g[o]verno ~ g[u]verno “govern” g[u]v[e]rnaria ~ g[o]v[e]rnaria“I would govern”
As for the verb forms categorized as resulting from MVH in the right‐hand column of (16), it
would be possible in principle to consider them as the result of long‐distance MVH or as the
conjoint effect of local MVH and mid‐vowel raising.
Another interesting aspect of MVH concerns the different triggering potential of the two
high vowels /i, u/. It was repeatedly observed in studies dealing with MVH that /i/ more
frequently triggers assimilation than /u/. In particular, unlike /u/, /i/ has the same raising
effect on either one of the mid‐vowels, whether it be /e, ɛ/ or /o, ɔ/. On the other hand, the
labial high vowel has a greater effect on /o, ɔ/ than on /e, ɛ/.
Comparing the height of the two high vowels within the phonetic space of the BPvowel system,
one observes that /i/ is the highest vowel, with /u/ being considerably lower, only slightly higher
than /e/. Consequently, the high labial vowel has a weaker raising potential with regard to /e/,
which, in order to be raised to /i/, becomes phonetically higher than the trigger vowel /u/ itself.
This may account for the preservation of the mid‐vowel in such words as l[e]gume “vegetable,”
p[e]rgunta “question,” p[e]rfume “perfume,” in which MVH is unattested (see Bisol, 1981).
A final remark concerns the prosodic strength of the trigger vowel. The triggers for MVH
can be both stressed and unstressed vowels, as in f [e]liz ~ f [i]liz “happy” with stressed word‐
final /i/, as compared with pr[o]cissão ~ pr[u]cissão “procession,” with stress on the nasal
diphthong, although harmony more frequently happens when the trigger vowel is stressed.
4.  Nasal vowels and nasal diphthongs
4.1.  Nasal vowels
In both variants of Portuguese, the contrast between upper- and lower-mid vowels is neutral-
ized for nasal vowels in favor of the upper‐mid quality. At the phonetic surface, oral and nasal
vowels are contrastive, as illustrated with the words in (17):
(17) s[ẽ]da	 “path”	 seda	 “silk”
l[ĩ]do “beautiful” lido “read”
t[̃ũ]ba “tomb” tuba “tuba”
l[o͂]bo “loin” lobo “wolf”
80  Leda Bisol and João Veloso
Surface contrastive nasal vowels have at least three different phonetic realizations: [ˈvẽndɐ],
[ˈvẽȷ̃dɐ], [vẽdɐ] for venda “sale.” Whereas in BP all three pronunciations occur, in EP the third
possibility is the most frequent, as argued by Mateus and d’Andrade (2000). When a
consonant is present phonetically, its place features are identical with those of the following
stop. Before a fricative onset or word‐finally, the consonantal element may share its place
features with the preceding vowel or surface as a falling diphthong: bem [bẽȷ̃
/ɲ] “well” or
bom [bo͂w̃/ŋ] “good.”
Since the time of structural linguistics, two views about Portuguese nasal vowels are com-
peting. Whereas one group of scholars maintains that nasality is contrastive in vowels (/Ṽ/
vs. /V/), as, for example, defended in Hall (1943a,b), the other group argues in favor of a
biphonemic representation consisting of an oral vowel followed by a tautosyllabic nasal
consonant /VN/, as in Nobeling (1903) and many others after this author’s early publica-
tion. Clearly, the controversy originates from the fact that the nasal vowel often surfaces
without or with only a short nasal constriction in BP, while in EP the consonantal constriction
usually does not appear.
The biphonemic interpretation of the nasal vowel becomes prevailing with Câmara Jr.
(1953, 1970) in Brazil and with Barbosa (1965) in Portugal. Câmara Jr. (1970) includes his
analysis of nasal vowels in the chapter on syllabification, arguing that nasal vowels are
­
phonologically closed syllables.
Here we adopt the biphonemic way of representing nasal vowels, for which we summa-
rize the evidence as given in Câmara Jr. (1953, 1970), Barbosa (1965), and Mateus and
d’Andrade (2000).
•	 In Portuguese, weak /R/ and strong /R/ contrast intervocalically, as in caro “expensive”
and carro “car,” respectively. Elsewhere, these sounds are in complementary distribution,
with strong /R/ systematically following the nasal vowel: hon/R/a “honor,” ten/R/o
“tender,” gen/R/o “son‐in‐law.” Since strong /R/ is also obligatory syllable‐initially
after a consonantal coda: is/R/ael “Israel,” guel/R/a “gill,” etc., the biphonemic represen-
tation readily explains the ban on weak /R/ following a phonological /VN/ sequence.
•	 Branching rhymes make heavy syllables. Nasal vowels show solidarity with branching
rhymes as regards generalizations that refer to syllable weight. For example, words with
antepenultimate stress are relatively frequent in Portuguese. However, the proparoxy-
tonic stress pattern is only allowed in words with a prefinal light syllable. Typically,
words with prefinal nasal vowels never show proparoxytonic stress: rápido “fast,”
*rápindo, *rápildo, *rápirdo, etc.
•	 In morphological derivations before vowel‐initial suffixes, the underlying /VN/
sequence often surfaces as an oral vowel followed by a nasal consonant: afeg[ɐ͂] “Afghan
(fem.)” ~ Afeg[ɐ͂n]istão “Afghanistan,” r[ɐ͂] “frog” ~ r[ɐ͂n]ário “frog farm,” pat[ĩ] “skate”~
pat[in]agem “skating,” etc. The same is true for productive prefixes like –in, which surface
with a nasal vowel when prefixed to a consonant‐initial root, as in [ĩ] possível “impos-
sible,” but with an oral vowel when the nasal consonant is syllabified as the onset of the
root: [in]útil, “useless.”
The view of nasal vowels representing underlying /VN/ sequences was tested in a percep-
tion test done by Moraes (2013: 109–110), who describes the experiment as below.
In a word like mando [ˈmɐ̃n
du], the sound [d] was electronically erased. Depending on the
perceptual prominence of the nasal appendix [n], the resulting word should be perceived as
either mão [mɐ̃w̃] or mano [mɐ̃nu]. The first alternative would support the hypothesis of a
mere transition, not phonological, of this consonantal segment (homosyllabic interpretation).
Phonological Processes Affecting Vowels: Neutralization, Harmony, and Nasalization  81
The second alternative ([n] perceived as heterosyllabic) means that the original appendix in
the syllable coda resyllabifies and becomes a full consonant in the syllable onset, in which
case the biphonemic hypothesis would be preferred.
As it turned out, the second alternative—mano—was chosen by most participants, con-
firming the phonological status of the nasal consonant as part of the underlying /VN/
sequence.
4.2.  Nasal diphthongs
Besides the phonetic nasal diphthongs derived from underlying /VN/, Portuguese also
has lexical nasal diphthongs. In lexical nasal diphthongs, the nuclear vowel is either /a/
or /o/.6
The following words show a nasal diphthong in the singular and the corresponding
plural. The phonetic transcription reflects the BP pronunciation.
(18) Singular	 Plural
a.  irmão [ixmɐ̃w̃] “brother” irmãos [ixmɐ̃w̃s]
mão [mɐ̃w̃] “hand” mãos [mɐ̃w̃s]
cidadão [sidadɐ̃w̃] “citizen” cidadãos [sidadɐ̃w̃s]
b.  cão [kɐ̃w̃] “dog” cães [kɐ̃ȷ̃s]
capitão [kapitɐ̃w̃] “captain” capitães [kapitɐ̃ȷ̃s]
pão [pɐ̃w̃] “bread” pães [pɐ̃ȷ̃s]
c.  verão [verɐ̃w̃] “summer” verões [verõȷ̃s]
limão [limɐ̃w̃] “lemon” limões [limõȷ̃s]
feijão [fejʒɐ̃w̃] “bean” feijões [fejʒõȷ̃s]
The apparent irregularity of the plural forms, [ãȷ̃s], [õȷ̃s] corresponding with the singular
[ɐ̃w̃] has been much debated in the literature. To account for these alternations in the
­
synchronic grammar of Portuguese, Câmara Jr. (1970: 85) explains the different plural forms
as the consequence of different underlying nominal class markers, as shown with the plural
examples in (19b).
(19) a. Singular b. Plural
[irmɐ̃w̃] /irmaN‐o/ “brother” [irmɐ̃w̃s]  /irmaN+o+S/
[kapitɐ̃w̃] /kapitaN‐e/ “captain” [kɐ̃pitɐ̃ȷ̃s] /kapitaN+e+S/
[verɐ̃w̃] /veroN‐e/ “summer” [verõȷ̃s] /veroN+e+S/
Similar proposals can be found in Morales‐Front and Holt (1997), Mateus and
d’Andrade (2000), Veloso (2005), Bisol (2013) and others. In Wetzels (1997) it is argued
that words ending in nasal diphthongs are athematic and lexically represented with a
nasal glide.7
The words in (18a), which preserve [ãw̃ ] in the plural form, are very limited in number.
Some examples are: irmãos “brothers,” pagãos “pagans,” grãos “grains,” mãos “hands,”
órfãos “orphans,” órgãos “organs.” Even less frequent is the class in (b) in which the
vowel /a/ is present in both the singular and plural forms: capitães “captains,” pães
“loaves (of bread),” and cães “dogs.” By far the most frequent are the words in (c), which
82  Leda Bisol and João Veloso
show a [ɐ̃w̃] ~ [õȷ̃] alternation. As it appears, Portuguese nominal roots surfacing with a
nasal diphthong either end in /aN/ or in /oN/ lexically. The class of root‐final /oN/
nouns are the most numerous class.
We have just seen that Câmara Jr. (1970: 85) proposes for the word irmão “brother” the
representation /aN+o/, i.e. as being thematic. In a different study he establishes a
parallel between, on the one hand, the representation of oral and nasal vowels as a con-
trast between /V/ vs. /VN/ and, on the other hand, the nasal diphthong as an oral
diphthong followed by/N/ (1971: 33). Here we will adopt the view that word-final nasal
diphthongs are derived from underlying /VN+V/, where/+V/is a class marker. A mor-
phologically conditioned rule deletes the nasal consonant, while its nasal feature remains
in the representation /V[nasal]+V/. Since we assume that words surfacing with a nasal
diphthong derive from thematic words, in accordance with Câmara Jr (1970), Mateus
and d’Andrade (2000), and Bisol (2013), the theme vowel must be changed into a glide,
which assimilates the coronal features of the plural morpheme /S/: /V[nasal]
jS/. Finally,
to account for the fact that phonological sequences of the type /veroN+o/ surface with
word-final [ɐ̃w̃], we must posit a lexical rule which neutralizes the contrast between [ɐ̃w̃]
and [õw̃], probably by dissimilation. Obviously, the few words in which the labial glide
does not become coronal must be marked as exceptional to the lexical rule that turns /u/
to /i/ before /S/.
5. Conclusion
EP and BP both have a neutralization rule which reduces the seven‐vowel system that
exists in stressed syllables to the three‐vowel system /i, u, a/ in atonic syllables. This
basic system is attested in all positions in EP, but only word‐finally in BP. The distinction
that must be made in BP between unstressed vowel neutralization and word‐final
unstressed vowel neutralization has motivated our decision to derive the neutralization
facts in this variety of Portuguese as a two‐step process. No such evidence exists in EP, for
which the global reduction of the seven‐vowel system to the three‐vowel system is derived
as a single process. By separating neutralization and centralization in EP, we were able to
show that the neutralization rules in BP and EP are very similar and only different in
scope. As regards the rules of stressed mid‐vowel neutralization, both rules are ­productive
in EP and PB.
In BP, neutralization is not the only rule that is active in pretonic syllables. Within the
five‐vowel system created by UVNeu, two variable processes are simultaneously elimi-
nating the mid‐vowels in the southern dialects. One is a rule of regressive MVH triggered by
the high vowels /i, u/, in which /i/ is more forceful as a trigger than /u/. The other one is
a prosodically conditioned rule which raises /e, o/ to /i, u/. The combined effect of these
rules suggests a future for these dialects in which the basic three‐vowel system /i, a, u/
extends to all unstressed syllables, generalizing the pattern that already exists in word‐final
unstressed open syllables. In the dialects of the north(east), which show a preference for
lower‐mid vowels in pretonic syllables, VH raises /ɛ, ɔ/ to /e, o/, recreating a seven‐vowel
system as it exists under stress.
The phonological analysis of nasal vowels and nasal diphthongs is without doubt the part
of the Portuguese vocalism where scholars disagree the most. Here we have presented the
traditional view of the lexical presentation of these sounds, conscious of the fact that the
discussion will surely continue.
Phonological Processes Affecting Vowels: Neutralization, Harmony, and Nasalization  83
Notes
1	 See, among others, Câmara Jr. 1970, Lopez 1979, Wetzels 1992, Lee 1995.
2	 Vigário (2001) identifies the most relevant of such exceptions.
3	 Unless neutralization is the result of assimilation, in which case the resulting vowel may be either
upper or lower mid.
4	 The examples in (9–10) are taken from Wetzels 2011.
5	 Vowel raising is not observed for all nouns, as those given in (15a). For vowel raising in words
without a high vowel, see Klunck 2007, Cruz 2010, Correa da Silva 2014.
6	 Nasal diphthongs are almost always word‐final and almost exceptionally attract word‐stress. A
few exceptions exist: (1) Few words have a word‐internal nasal diphthong, such as in cãimbra
“cramp” or zãimbro “one‐eyed”; (2) in a small set of words stress is prefinal, as in órfão “orphan,”
órgão “organ,” and bênção “blessing.”
7	 See also Chapter 6 on the syllable and Chapter 11 on the morphology and phonology of inflection.
References
Baković, E. (2007). Local assimilation and
constraint interaction. In P. de Lacy (ed.), The
Cambridge Handbook of Phonology. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, pp. 335–351.
Barbosa, J. M. (1965). Études de Phonologie
Portugaise. Lisbon: Junta de Investigações
Científicas do Ultramar.
Barbosa da Silva, M. (1989). As Pretônicas no
Falar Baiano: a Variedade Culta de Salvador.
Ph.D. thesis, UFRJ, Rio de Janeiro.
Bisol, L. (1981). Harmonização Vocálica. Ph.D.
thesis, UFRJ, Rio de Janeiro.
Bisol, L. (2010). O Diminutivo e suas demandas.
D.E.L.T.A., 26, pp. 59–83.
Bisol, L. (2013). Fonologia da Nasalização.
In A. Castilho et al. (eds.). Gramática do
Português Falado, vol. VII. São Paulo: Editora
Contexto/FAPESP, pp. 113–140.
Bortoni, S. M., E. Gomes, and C. Malvar (1992).
A variação das vogais pretônicas no Português
de Brasília: Um Fenômeno Neogramático ou de
Difusão Lexical. Estudos Lingüísticos, 1, pp. 9–29.
Callou, D. and Y. Leite (1986). Variação das Vogais
Pretônicas. Simpósio‐Diversidade Lingüística no
Brasil. Salvador: UFBA, pp. 157–169.
Câmara, J. M. (1953). Para o Estudo da Fonêmica
Portuguesa. Rio de Janeiro: Livraria Padrão.
Câmara, J. M. (1970). Estrutura da Língua
Portuguesa. Rio de Janeiro: Editora Vozes.
Casagrande, G. P. B. (2004). Harmonização
Vocálica: Análise Variacionista em Tempo Real.
MA thesis, PUCRS, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
Castro, E. C. (1990). As Pretônicas na Variedade
Mineira de Juiz de Fora. MA thesis, UFRJ, Rio
de Janeiro, Brazil.
Clements, G. N. (1991). Vowel height assimilation
in Bantu languages. Working Papers of the
Cornell Phonetics Laboratory, 5, pp. 37–76.
Correa da Silva, A. P. (2014). Elevação sem
Motivação Aparente das Vogais Médias
Pretônicas entre os Jovens Porto‐Alegrenses.
MA thesis, PUCRS, Porto Alegre.
Cruz, M. (2010). As Vogais Médias Pretônicas em
Porto Alegre ‐RS: um Estudo sobre o Alçamento
sem Motivação Aparente. MA thesis, PUCR,
Porto Alegre.
Delgado‐Martins, M. R. (1996). Relação
fonética/fonologia: A propósito do sistema
vocálico do português. Congresso Internacional
sobre o Português. Actas, vol. I. Lisbon: Colibri,
pp. 311–325.
Gonçalves Viana, A. R. (1973[1892]). Estudos de
Fonética Portuguesa. Lisbon: Imprensa
Nacional—Casa da Moeda.
Hall Jr., R. (1943a). The unit phonemes of
Brazilian Portuguese. Studies in Linguistics,
1 (15), pp. 1–6.
Hall Jr., R. (1943b). Occurrence and
orthographical representation of phonemes in
Brazilian Portuguese. Studies in Linguistics,
2 (1), pp. 6–13.
Klunck, P. (2007). Alçamento das Vogais Médias
Pretônicas sem Motivação Aparente. MA
thesis, PUCRS, Porto Alegre.
84  Leda Bisol and João Veloso
Lee, S. H. (1995). Morfologia e Fonologia Lexical do
Português Brasileiro. Ph.D. thesis, UNICAMP,
Brazil.
Leite, Y. (1974). Portuguese stress and related rules.
Ph.D. dissertation, University of Texas.
Lopez, B. (1979). The sound pattern of Brazilian
Portuguese (cariocan dialect). Ph.D.
dissertation, University of California.
Maia, C. de A. (2013). O Vocalismo Átono na
História do Português: Contributos para a
Cronologia das Mudanças. In R. Alvarez et al.
(eds.), Ao Sabor do Texto: Estudos dedicados a Ivo
Castro. Santiago de Compostela: Universidade
de Santiago de Compostela, pp. 335–354.
Maia, V. L. M. (1986). As Pretônicas Médias na
Fala de Natal. Estudos Lingüísticos e Literários.
5, pp. 209–225.
Marquilhas, R. (2003). Mudança Analógica e
Elevação das Vogais Pretónicas. In I. Castro
and I. Duarte (eds.), Miscelânea de Estudos em
Homenagem a Maria Helena Mira Mateus, vol. II.
Lisbon: Imprensa Nacional—Casa da Moeda,
pp. 7–18.
Mateus, M. H. (1982). Aspectos da Fonologia
Portuguesa. Lisbon: INIC (Textos de
Linguística, 6) [Lisbon: Centro de Estudos
Filológicos 1975].
Mateus, M. H. and E. d’Andrade (2000). The
Phonology of Portuguese. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Mateus, M. H. M. and M. R. Delgado‐Martins
(1982). Contribuição para o estudo das vogais
átonas [ə] e [u] no português europeu. Biblos,
LVIII, pp. 111–125.
Mattos e Silva, R. V. (2008). O Português Arcaico.
Lisbon: Imprensa Nacional—Casa da Moeda.
Menuzzi, S. (1993). On The Prosody of the
Diminutive Alternation ‐inho/‐zinho in
Brazilian Portuguese. Manuscript, HIL/
University of Leiden.
Moraes, J. A. de. (2013). Produção e Percepção
das Vogais Nasais. In A. Castilho et al.
(eds.), Gramática do Português Falado, vol.
VII. São Paulo: Editora Contexto/FAPESP,
pp. 95–112.
Morales‐Front, A. and E. Holt (1997).
The interplay of morphology, prosody and
faithfulness in Portuguese pluralization.
In F. Martínez‐Gil and A. Morales‐Front (eds.),
Issues in the Phonology and Morphology of
the Major Iberian Languages. Washington,
DC: Georgetown University Press,
pp. 359–437.
Nascimento Silva, A. (2009). As Pretônicas no
Falar Teresinense. Ph.D. thesis, PUCRS,
Porto Alegre.
Nobeling, O. (1903). Die Nasalvokale im
Portugiesischen. Die Neueren Sprache, 11,
pp. 129–153.
Paiva, M. H. (2008). A Descrição do Vocalismo
Átono Quinhentista: Linhas e Entrelinhas nos
Textos Metalinguísticos Coevos. Linguística, 3,
pp. 197–221.
Paiva, M. H. (2009). Variação e Mudança no
Vocalismo Átono Quinhentista: Práticas
Escriturais e Juízos Normativos. Linguística, 4,
pp. 85–110.
Schwindt, L. C. (1995). Harmonia Vocálica em
Dialetos do Sul do País. MA thesis, PUCRS,
Porto Alegre, Brazil.
Schwindt, L. C. (2013). Neutralização da Vogal
Pretônica e Formação de Palavras em
Português Brasileiro. Organon, 28 (54),
pp. 137–154.
Trubetzkoy, N. S. (1967). Principes de Phonologie.
Paris: Éditions Klincksieck.
Veloso, J. (2005). Estrutura Interna e Flexão de
Número dos Nomes Terminados em “‐ão”:
Onde Reside a “Irregularidade”? In G. M.
Rio‐Torto, O. M. Figueiredo, and F. Silva (eds.),
Estudos em Homenagem ao Professor Doutor
Mário Vilela, vol. I. Porto: Faculdade de Letras
da Universidade do Porto, pp. 325–338.
Veloso, J. (2010). Central, epenthetic, unmarked
vowels, and schwas: A brief outline of some
essential differences. Linguística, 5 (1),
pp. 193–213.
Veloso, J. (2013). Redução do Vocalismo Átono do
Português Europeu Contemporâneo:
Assimetria dos Elementos de Tonalidade e
Interação entre Diversos Tipos de Redução
Vocálica. In F. Silva, I. Falé, and I. Pereira
(eds.), Textos Selecionados do XXVIII Encontro
Nacional da Associação Portuguesa de Linguística.
Coimbra: Associação Portuguesa de
Linguística, pp. 655–672.
Viegas, M. C. (1987). Alçamento de Vogais
Médias Pretônicas: uma Abordagem
Sociolingüística. MA thesis, UFMG, Belo
Horizonte.
Viegas, M. C. (2001). O Alçamento das Vogais
Pretônicas e os Itens Lexicais. Ph.D. thesis,
UFMG, Belo Horizonte.
Vieira, M. J. (1994). Neutralização das Vogais
Médias Postônicas. MA thesis, PUCRS, Porto
Alegre.
Phonological Processes Affecting Vowels: Neutralization, Harmony, and Nasalization  85
Vigário, M. (2001). The prosodic word in European
Portuguese. Ph.D. thesis, Universidade de
Lisboa, Lisbon.
Villalva, A. (2000). Estruturas Morfológicas.
Unidades e Hierarquias nas Palavras do Português.
Lisbon: Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian/
Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia.
Wetzels, W. L. (1992). Mid vowel neutralization
in Brazilian Portuguese. Cadernos de Estudos
Linguísticos, 23, pp. 19–55.
Wetzels, W. L. (1997). The lexical
representation of nasality in Brazilian
Portuguese. Probus, 9 (2),
pp. 203–232.
Wetzels, W. L. (2011). Aperture Features and
the representation of vowel neutralization
in Brazilian Portuguese. In E. Hume, J.
Goldsmith, and W. L. Wetzels (eds.),
Tones and Features. Berlin: de Gruyter,
pp. 331–359.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
The syllable and its constituents play an important role in describing and explaining restrictions
ontheco‐occurrenceofsegmentsandthedistributionofindividualsegmentsandtheirallophones.
Syllables as domains, but also their edges constitute recurrent environments that condition
phonological processes across languages. As part of a hierarchy of prosodic domains, the
way in which syllables are joined into larger domains such as the foot and the prosodic
word shows how word‐accent and rhythm emerge and gives a notion of what a possible
word‐prosodic system is or how restrictions on syllable structure may be loosened at
the edges of phonological words. At a relatively young age, children are able to count the
number of syllables in a word and have clear intuitions about the locus of syllable bound-
aries when they map syllables to tunes in lyrics and easily learn to manipulate syllables and
their constituents in word games.1
In both European and Brazilian Portuguese, a number of
generalizations must be expressed by reference to syllable edges, such as the velarization
(EP and BP) and vocalization (BP) of /l/ in the syllable coda, as in sal [saɫ/w] “salt” and
salta [ˈsaɫ/w.ta] “jump‐3sg.pr.ind.,” or the distribution of the allophones of the rhotic /R/.
Syllables can be targeted in word‐formation, such as hypocoristic reduplication. In this
chapter we will not be concerned primarily with phonological or morphological processes
that relate to the ­
syllable,2
but focus on justifying the structure of the Portuguese syllable
and its constituents.
We will not distinguish between the syllable structure of European (EP) and Brazilian
Portuguese (BP), despite the fact that, at first impression, these two variants sound very dif-
ferent, most evidently due to the frequent loss of unstressed vowels in PE. Instead, we will
focus on the structure of the BP syllable, where the facts are somewhat more straightforward,
and subsequently introduce the complexities typical of EP, following the analysis by Mateus
and d’Andrade (2000). These authors propose that the EP syllable structure is, at some shal-
low level of abstraction, if not identical, at least very similar to that of BP.
Although we assume that the structure of the Portuguese syllable outlined in this chapter
is valid for the normative speech variants of both Brazil and Portugal, the phonetic realiza-
tion of vowels and consonants is sometimes subject to dialectal variation within these broad
areas. Illustrations for BP will be taken from the cultivated speech typical of the southern
states (São Paulo, Santa Catarina, Paraná, and Rio Grande do Sul), whereas the Lisbon
­
variant is our point of reference for EP.
Syllable Structure
Gisela Collischonn and
W. Leo Wetzels
6
Syllable Structure  87
2.  The structure of the Portuguese syllable
The purpose of this section is to characterize the structure of the Portuguese syllable against
the background of a general theory of syllable structure. We will justify the global syllable
constituency as represented in (1) below, which distinguishes between an onset and a rhyme
constituent, the latter subdivided into a nucleus node and a coda node.
(1) 
Rhyme
Onset Nucleus Coda
μ μ
C… V C…
σ
The terminal structural nodes in (1) dominate the segments of Portuguese directly (onset) or
indirectly via the mora constituents (nucleus, coda).
In Portuguese, the syllable nucleus is obligatorily filled with a vowel. Stressed sylla-
bles may contain any of the seven vowels /i, e, ɛ, a, ɔ, o, u/ which constitute the full
vowel system of this language, whereas in BP unstressed syllables may contain one of
the vowels /i, e, a, o, u/, a set which is word‐finally further reduced to [i, a, u] in BP. In
EP, only [ɐ, ɨ, u] occur in all unstressed syllables.3
The syllable onset and coda may remain
empty. Empty onsets occur word‐initially and word‐internally: a.ve “bird, ru.a “street,”
ca.otico “chaotic,” although various processes exist that militate against vowel sequences.
Given an allowed maximum of two consonants in the onset (Obstruent + Liquid) and in
the coda (Sonorant + /S/), the following syllable types are predicted to occur in
Portuguese, presented in the order of decreasing frequency: CV, CVC, V, VC, CCV, CCVC,
CVCC, CCVCC, VCC.
The CV type is by far the most frequent, accounting for 60 percent of the total number of
syllables occurring in the Houaiss dictionary, which comprises 150,875 words, whereas the
last three types each account for less than 1 percent (Viaro and Guimarães Filho, 2007, for
BP4
). The relative frequency of the syllable types corresponds roughly with the relative com-
plexity of their onsets and codas. Not surprisingly, the relative complexity of the syllable
margins is mirrored in the acquisition process, during which children acquire the simpler
syllable types before the more complex ones. The following stages are observed in the
learning of syllable types for Brazilian children by Lamprecht (2004):
Earliest CV, V sa.po “frog,” á.gua “water”
CVC, VC fes.ta “party,” es.pelho “mirror”
CCV, CCVC prato “dish,” flor “flower”
Latest CVCC, VCC, CCVCC mons.tro “monster,” ins.trumento “instrument”
trans.porte “transportation”
The Sonority Sequencing Principle 
(SSP) is widely accepted as a principle to explain the
phonotactic organization of the segments that make up a syllable in terms of their inherent
sonority.5
According to the SSP, the nucleus constitutes the sonority peak of a syllable.
Consonant sequences located in the syllable margins (onset and coda) are ordered in such a
way that their sonority values rise in function of their proximity to the nucleus. The sonority
88  Gisela Collischonn and W. Leo Wetzels
value of vowels and consonants are determined by a sonority scale, for which a number of
variants are found in the literature. For describing the global structure of the Portuguese
syllable, the sonority scale proposed by Clements (2009) suffices, which distinguishes five
degrees of sonority, corresponding to what are traditionally referred to as the major classes
of segments. Clements proposes, moreover, that the sonority value for a given segment is
obtained by adding up the positive specifications  
of the binary major class features that
together define the major sound classe to which the segment belongs, as shown below:
Sonority scale for major sound classes
Obstruents
p, t, k, b, d, g, f, s,
ʃ, v, z, ʒ
Nasal Cons.
m, n, ɲ
Liquids
l, ʎ, R
Glides
j, w
Vowels
i, e, ɛ, a, ɔ, o, u
“syllabic”6
̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ +
vocoid ̶ ̶ ̶ + +
approximant ̶ ̶ + + +
sonorant ̶ + + + +
relative
sonority
0 1 2 3 4
According to the classification above, vowels are most sonorant (= 4), then glides (= 3),
­
liquids (= 2), nasals (= 1), and the obstruents (= 0) are least sonorant. The SSP interacts with
language‐specific restrictions to define the phonotactic structure of a given language. As in
most languages, in Portuguese, segment sequences with the same sonority value (sonority
plateaus) are not allowed inside the same syllable constituent. Consequently, in BP, borrow-
ings such as pterodátilo “pterodactyl” or mnemônico “mnemonic,” are adapted to comply with the
syllable structure of the language by the creation of a supplementary syllable peak realized
as [i]: p[i]terodátilo, m[i]nemônico.
2.1.  The structure of the onset
In Portuguese, most consonantal segments and glides may be onsets. Some restrictions exist
on the occurrence of word‐initial consonants and glides. For example, the contrast between
“weak R” and “strong R” only exist intervocalically in Portuguese (ca[ɾ]o “expensive,” ca[x]o
“car”). Word‐initially, only “strong R” is found: [ˈxa.tu] “rat.” Word‐initial palatal lateral and
nasal consonants /ʎ, ɲ/ are extremely rare, some examples being nhô, nhá, which are reduced
forms of sinhô, sinhá “master,” “mistress,” regionally and in popular variants ­pronounced
as [ȷ̃õ], [ȷ̃ã], or the clitic pronoun lhe, “him/her,” typically pronounced as [li]. Word‐initially,
high vowels usually maintain their status as a syllable nucleus (hiato [i.ˈatu] “hiatus”),
whereas between vowels word‐internally they are syllabified as onsets: tuiuiu [tujuˈju],
cauauá [kawaˈwa] “black‐necked stork” (both).
There are severe restrictions on the way segments are combined to form complex onsets.
A complex onset may consist of maximally two segments, of which the second can only be
one of the liquids /l/ or /ɾ/.7
Afurther restriction requires that the first segment be a member
of the obstruent class, either a plosive or a labiodental fricative. The voiced labiodental fric-
ative /v/ only, and rarely, occurs in complex onsets inside the word and only allows /ɾ/ in
second position.8
The sequence /dl/ is disallowed as a complex onset, while /tl/ is very
sporadic, occurring in the words atlas “atlas,” atleta “athlete” and their derivatives, among
few others. Less rare but not very frequent is the onset /dr/.9
Complex onsets are often
­subject to simplification in popular speech, as in [ˈkwa.tu] quatro “four,” [ˈpɔ.bi], pobre “poor,”
Syllable Structure  89
exemplo [eˈzẽm
pu]. Deletion of the sonorant consonant happens more often in unstressed than
in stressed syllables, which may be related to the higher prosodic prominence of the latter.
In terms of the sonority scale presented in the table above, we may define grammatical
onsets in Portuguese as combinations of segments belonging to the sonority classes 0 and 2,
in that order.
In addition to fixing the width of the sonority intervals between elements of complex
onsets and codas, languages may impose phonotactic restrictions of a different nature. For
reasons of articulation or perception, some sequences are more frequent than others across
languages. Portuguese shares with many languages the dislike for /dl/ and /tl/ clusters,
which have identical place and manner features, [coronal] and [– continuant]. In BP, coronal
fricatives /s, z, ʃ, ʒ/ may not function as the first member of a complex onset. This general
ban on /sC/10
onsets can be explained taking into account that /sObstruent/ represents a
sonority plateau, /sNasal/ does not respect the sonority interval required between members
of a complex onset, and the /sLiquid/ clusters share [coronal] place in /sl/ and [coronal]
and [+continuant] in /sr/.
Words borrowed into BP that start with an /sC/ cluster in the original language are
repaired by epenthesis, as in [is.ˈpa] Eng. “spa,” [isˈmɔkı̃] Eng. “smoking jacket, tuxedo.” In
some cases, two variants can be heard: /is.ˈlajd/ or /si.ˈlajd/ Eng. “slide” (Freitas, 1992). If
we sidestep the fact that /tl/ and /vr/ exist word‐internally in a few words and ignore the
very rare instances of /vl/, we can define the grammatical onsets of Portuguese globally as
in (2a) below.11
(2) 
(a) (b) (c)
Filters: *Onset
Obstruent Liquid
+continuant
coronal
+continuant
+voice
labial
Onset
Obstruent Liquid
*Onset
Obstruent
–continuant
coronal
–continuant
coronal
Liquid
The special filter (2b) disqualifies complex onsets that have either a coronal fricative /z, s,
ʒ, ʃ/ or a labiodental voiced fricative as their left member, leaving /fr/ and /fl/ as the only
grammatical fricative‐initial complex onsets of Portuguese. Additionally, the filter (2c)
excepts /dl/ and /tl/ from the set of possible complex onsets.
2.2.  The structure of the rhyme
The Portuguese syllable rhyme contains no more than two positions, except for /S/, which
can be added as a third element. We will refer to this as the Maximal Rhyme Constraint
(MRC). Besides the vowels that occupy the nuclear position, the segments that may integrate
the rhyme are the sonorant consonants /ɾ/, /l/, /N/ and the glides [j, w].12
There is a con-
sensus among phonologists of Portuguese that a consonant belonging to the syllable rhyme
is located in the coda, as opposed to the nucleus. In Portuguese, vowels combine freely with
glides to form falling diphthongs: pai ([ˈpaj] “father,” peito [ˈpej.tu] “chest,” pau [ˈpaw] “stick,”
feudo [ˈfew.du] “feud,” etc.13
Phonologists disagree about whether a falling diphthong must
90  Gisela Collischonn and W. Leo Wetzels
be modeled as a complex nucleus or whether the glide is located in the syllable coda. Below,
we will argue in favor of the latter position.
In the structure of the syllable proposed in (1) it was assumed that segments that are
located in the syllable rhyme are dominated by the nucleus and coda nodes through an
intermediate mora constituent. Moras are weight units, which provide a formal expression
for the notion of syllable weight (Hyman 1985, Hayes 1989). Many languages make a distinc-
tion between heavy (two moras) and light (one mora) syllables for the sake of main stress
allocation. In these languages heavy syllables attract stress, whereas light syllables do not. In
the great majority of cases, onset consonants do not contribute to syllable weight, which is
the reason why they are not moraic. It has been claimed by many that only languages with a
durational contrast in vowels can have weight‐sensitive stress. Latin is a well‐known
example. In Latin, vowel length is contrastive (mǎlum “misfortune” vs. mālum “apple”).
Syllables with long vowels, diphthongs, or closed syllables are heavy. The penultimate syl-
lable receives the main stress if it is heavy, otherwise stress goes on the antepenult syllable.
Stress is never on a word‐final syllable, which does not count for the sake of stress assign-
ment and is called “extrametrical.” The following words illustrate the Latin Stress rule. In the
first two words, the prefinal syllable is light, hence stress is on the antepenult. In the last two
words, the prefinal syllable carries the word stress for being heavy.
(3) ˈanǐma “soul”
ˈarbǒrem “tree‐acc.”
peˈdester “on foot”
forˈtūna “fortune”
Despite the recurrent claim that phonological vowel length is a necessary condition for
weight‐sensitive stress, it appears that a considerable number of languages that distinguish
between light and heavy syllables do not have a length contrast for vowels (cf. Goedemans,
2010, p. 659). For the stress rule of Portuguese, a language without contrastive vowel length,
diphthongs and syllables closed by a consonant count as heavy, while open syllables are
light, as is by now believed by most scholars, at least for BP (Wetzels, 1992, 2007: Bisol, 1992;
Magalhães, 2004; Massini‐Cagliari, 2005). For most lexical words that are not verbs, word‐
final heavy syllables attract stress, otherwise stress goes on the prefinal syllable: caˈnal
“canal” vs. boˈnito “pretty.” Newly created non‐derived words follow this rule (cf. Hermans
and Wetzels, 2012). The main stress rule of Modern BP thus functions similar to the Latin
stress rule, without generalized final extrametricality.
The distinction between light and heavy syllables is also crucial for a rule known as
Spondaic Lowering, which neutralizes the contrast between upper and lower mid‐vowels in
prefinal stressed syllables in words with final heavy syllables:
(4) Vl# ˈm[ɔ]vel “mobile” proˈj[ɛ]til “projectile”
Vr# ˈd[ɔ]lar “dollar” ˈC[ɛ]sar “Caesar”
Vs# ˈD[ɔ]ris “Doris” ˈf[ɛ]zes “feces”
VG# ˈj[ɔ]quei “jockey” ˈj[ɛ]rsei “jersey”
ṼG# ˈs[ɔ]tão “loft” ˈm[ɛ]dão “sand dune”
VN# ˈ[ɔ]rfã “orphan girl” eˈl[ɛ]tron “electron”
Observe that the mid‐vowel opposition is not neutralized in words with prefinal stress
that end in a light syllable: ˈr[ɛ]to “straight,” ˈc[e]do “early,” ˈm[ɛ]ta “aim,” ˈm[e]sa “table,”
ˈc[ɔ]sta “coast” ˈm[o]sca “housefly,” ˈf[ɛ]sta “party,” ˈb[e]sta “beast.”
Syllable Structure  91
For EP, the question whether main stress assignment is conditioned by syllable weight
is subject to disagreement.14
A particular problem related to the structure of the rhyme concerns the phonotactic
distribution of the palatal sonorants /ɲ, ʎ/. It appears that palatal sonorants tolerate only
light nuclei to their left. Observe that in the examples given in (5), heavy rhymes freely occur
to the left of /m, n, l/, but not before /ɲ, ʎ/:
(5) ar.ma “weapon” ador.no “ornament” *Vr.ñV
abis.mo “abyss” cis.ne “swan” *Vs.ñV
tei.moso “stubborn” rei.no “kingdom” *ei.ñV
or.la “border” *Vr.ʎV
es.linga “sling” *Vs.ʎV
lei.lão “auction” *ei.ʎV
The sequences marked as ungrammatical in (5) above, not only do not occur in Portuguese,
they also sound odd to native speakers. To account for the asymmetry in the distribution of
plain and palatal sonorants, it was proposed in Wetzels (1997, 2000b) that palatal sonorants
add weight to the preceding syllable, i.e. they are moraic. It was also suggested that the ambi-
syllabic nature of palatal sonorants is due to their complex articulation, realizing a ­
consonantal
and a vocalic place node15
represented as in (6) below, in line with Clements and Hume (1995).16
(6) 
μ μ μ
V C V
oral cavity
[–continuant] ([nasal])
C-place
vocalic
V-place
[coronal]
[–anterior]
σ σ
In (6), palatal sonorants are represented as ambisyllabic consonants that add weight to the
left syllable. This being the case, these consonants occupy the only non‐nuclear rhyme posi-
tion available in that syllable, which explains the non‐occurrence of heavy rhymes before
this consonant type.
The hypothesis that palatal sonorants are moraic not only explains why a preceding
rhyme cannot be heavy, but also why there are no words of the type ˈVCV{ʎ,ɲ}V (type
*máconha “marihuana”) with antepenult stress,17
or why palatal sonorants only occur inter-
vocalically, and, crucially, why words that contain a sequence V[V+high] preceding {ʎ,ɲ}
must be syllabified with an obligatory hiatus: ra.ˈinha “queen,” mo.ˈinho “mill,” fa.ˈulha “fine
dust.” Since the Portuguese rhyme has only two positions available, it cannot integrate a
sequence V[V+high] into the rhyme that already contains part of a palatal sonorant.
92  Gisela Collischonn and W. Leo Wetzels
Whereas palatal sonorants disallow heavy rhymes to their left, nasal vowels18
differ from
oral vowels for not allowing tautosyllabic consonants to their right, except /S/. This fact
strongly suggests that nasal vowels occupy two positions in the rhyme. Indeed, nasal vowels
behave like heavy syllables with regard to the rules of the grammar that distinguish between
light and heavy syllables. Word‐finally, nasal vowels usually attract word stress: cupim
[kuˈpı̃(ɲ)] “termite,” jejum [ʒeˈʒũ] “fasting,” armazém19
[axmaˈzẽ( j̃ )] “storeroom,” cupom
[kuˈpõ(w)] “coupon,” maçã [maˈsɐ̃] “apple.” Also, newly created words ending in a nasal
vowel are stress‐final: acronyms ABRALIN, PROCOM; fantasy first names like Edum, Froin;
brand names for industrial products Fenaren, Ponstan.20
Words with a nasal vowel in the
­
prefinal syllable never have stress on the antepenultimate syllable. Words ending in a nasal
vowel that are exceptions to the stress rule are subjected to Spondaic Lowering, including
loans: ˈpr[ɔ]ton “proton,” ˈ[ɔ]rfã “orphan girl,” ˈd[ɔ]ping, “doping,” etc. Expectedly, sequences
of an oral vowel and a nasal vowel are always analyzed as heterosyllabic sequences, also
when the nasal vowel is high, as in amendo.ˈim “peanut” pa.ˈinço “variety of millet,” a.ˈinda
“still,” whereas similar sequences of oral vowels are realized as mono‐syllabic diphthongs:
doi [dɔj] “hurts‐3sg.pr.ind.,” pai(s) [paj(s)] “father/parents.”
Portuguese has a limited number of nasal diphthongs. Only three occur in the non‐derived
vocabulary: [ɐ̃w̃, ɐ̃ȷ̃, ũȷ̃]. Of these, only [ɐ̃w̃] is relatively frequent, but only word‐finally.
A unique instance of the high diphthong [ũȷ̃] is found in the word muito “much.” Word‐
finally, [ɐ̃ȷ̃] occurs exclusively in mãe “mother.” A handful of words show word‐internal [ɐ̃ȷ̃]:
(7)  cãimbra [kɐ̃ȷ̃bra] “cramp”
cãibro [kɐ̃ȷ̃bru] “pair of corn cobs”
zãibo [zɐ̃ȷ̃bu] “squint‐eyed”
Words which end in a nasal diphthong usually have stress on their final syllable, dem-
onstrating that nasal diphthongs represent heavy syllables. As expected, nasal diphthongs
do not occur in syllables closed by a consonant other than /S/: pães “loaves (of bread).” Very
few words ending in [ɐ̃w̃] show irregular penultimate stress, some of which are given in (8)
below.
(8) órfão “orphan boy” médão “dune”
lódão “lotus” orégão “oregano”
acórdão “sentence” cédrão “cedar‐tree”
sótão “attic” zângão “bumblebee”
As expected, the words in (8) undergo Spondaic Lowering, when applicable.
The phonological representation of nasal diphthongs is a thorny issue, especially against
the background of the prevailing opinion that nasal vowels are derived from tautosyllabic
VN sequences. This hypothesis entails that nasality is not contrastive for vowels at the lexical
level. In accordance with this hypothesis, Câmara Jr. (1971: 33) proposed that nasal diph-
thongs derive from an oral diphthong followed by a nasal archiphoneme: /muiNto/ “much.”
Despite its uniform way of representing the source of surface nasality for vowels and diph-
thongs, the proposal is problematic, considering the fact that the Portuguese rhyme is bi‐
positional. Regular syllabification would create a sequence of an oral vowel followed by a
nasal vowel from underlying /ViN/, as shown above. The grammar consequently cannot
distinguish between words like ruim [xu.ˈĩ] “bad,” ainda [a.ˈĩn
da] “still,” etc. with a nasal
vowel, and muito [ˈmũȷ̃.tu] “much,” cãimbra [ˈkɐȷ̃.bra] “cramp,” etc. with a nasal diphthong.
Without the use of some arbitrary lexical marking, both structures cannot be derived from
Syllable Structure  93
the lexical sequence /ViN/. Foreign names like Brown [brawn] and Einstein [ˈæjn.stæjn],
which are pronounced by native speakers of BP as [bɾaw] and [ajs.ˈtaj] with the nasal
consonant being deleted, testify to the fact that /N/, when part of a sequence /VGlideN/,
cannot be integrated into the Portuguese rhyme. For these and other reasons it was proposed
in Wetzels (1997) that invariable nasal diphthongs21
derive from a lexical sequence of an oral
vowel followed by a high nasal vowel: muito / muĩto/ “much” or irmão / irmaũ/ “brother,”
the latter being consequently classified as athematic.22
2.3.  The structure of the coda
Above we have seen examples of how clusters are broken up in illicit BP onsets: pneu [piˈnew]
“tire,” mnemônico [mineˈmõniku] “mnemonic,” psicologia [ˌpisiˌkoloˈʒia] “psychology.” In BP,
the same strategy of vowel epenthesis is used to parse consonants as onsets that are not
allowed or do not fit in the syllable coda. Word‐internal examples are: ob[i]ter “obtain,” cap[i]
tar “pick up, compac[i]to “compact,” ob[i]séquio “favor,” fic[i]ção “fiction,” hip[i]nose “hyp-
nosis,” at[i]mosfera “atmosphere,” pig[i]meu “pygmy,” af[i]ta “cold sore.” Word‐finally, epen-
thesis is also productive23
when the postnuclear coda segment of the source language does
not belong to the set of licensed codas in Portuguese, as can be seen in borrowings: Eng.
“top” [ˈtɔpi], Eng. “staff” [isˈtɛfi], Eng. “club” [ˈklubi], or when the rhyme in the source lan-
guage comprises three segments of which the third segment is not /S/: Eng. “surf” [ˈsuxfi],
Eng. “sport” [isˈpɔxtʃi], Eng. “clown” [ˈklawni], Eng. “drink” [ˈdɾĩki], but Dutch “Hans,
proper name” [ɐ̃s]. Words ending in obstruent stop plus /S/ are treated similarly: tórax
[ˈtɔraki
s], hélix, [ˈɛliki
s], índex [ˈĩdeki
s]. Epenthesis occurs variably in all speech styles,
although in formal registers the epenthetic vowel maybe very short and is more often absent.
When the newly created syllable immediately follows the stress, the epenthetic vowel is usu-
ally more perceptible: duplex [duˈplɛkis] “duplex,” inox [iˈnɔkis] “inox,” plets [ˈplɛtʃis]
“chewing gum, brand,” but even here, it may not be realized. Words with three postnuclear
segments, like aids either contain the epenthetic [i], or, without [i], /s/ functions as the syl-
lable nucleus: [ˈaj.dʒis] ~ [ˈaj.dʒs].
When the epenthetic vowel is not realized itself, it may show its (intended) presence indi-
rectly, by blocking or triggering phonological processes. For example, assimilatory coda
devoicing does not occur in words like observa: [o.biˈ.sɛɾ.va] or [ob.ˈsɛɾ.va], not *[ob̥.ˈsɛɾva]
“observe‐3sg.pr.ind.,” where at least partial devoicing is expected. Palatalization of /t,d/
before /i/ is a productive process in large areas of Brazil and also affects coronal stops before
epenthetic [i]: étnico [ˈɛ.tʃ(i)
.ni.ku] “ethnic,” advogado [a.dʒ(i)
.vo.ˈga.du] “lawyer.” In these
words, palatalization is obligatory, although the epenthetic vowel may not be audible. The
epenthetic vowel is not recorded in the official spelling, but spelling mistakes are regularly
encountered, as in seguimento for segmento “segment,” obituração for obturação “obturation,”
adivogado for advogado “lawyer,” etc.
Although the Portuguese rhyme may comprise up to three positions, three‐segment
rhymes are rather infrequent. They mostly consist of a diphthong followed by /S/: fausto
“luxury,” pães “loaves (of bread),” cais “dock.” Syllables with a nasal or a liquid followed by
/S/ in the coda are restricted to a very small set of words. In BP colloquial speech, complex
codas consisting of the rhotic followed by /S/ tend to be simplified by deletion of one of the
consonants: perspectiva [pes.pe.ki.ˈtʃi.va] “perspective, superstição [su.pex.tʃi.ˈsɐ̃w̃] “superstition.”
The intolerance for this cluster can be explained by the fact that the rhotic is often realized as
a velar or uvular fricative and thus forms a sonority plateau with /s/, in violation of the SSP.
We have seen that sonorant and nonsonorant consonants behave very differently as
regards their affiliation to the rhyme constituent. One clearly must distinguish between
sonorant segments and /S/, which are obligatorily syllabified in the syllable coda, and
nonsonorant consonants, which are only reluctantly tolerated as codas, and with a clear
94  Gisela Collischonn and W. Leo Wetzels
preference for the onset position. Different ways of accounting for this divergent behavior
can be envisioned, depending on the theoretical framework adopted.24
We will here take the
position that nonsonorant consonants that are either word‐final or the first member of an
intervocalic cluster that is not allowed to function as an onset, are optionally syllabified
either as codas or as onsets of a newly created syllable. On the other hand, the MRC is always
respected: independently of the major class membership of a given phoneme, there are only
two positions available in the rhyme, with the proviso that a third position is available
exclusively for /S/.
In the structure provided in (9), the consonants that are obligatorily integrated in the
­
syllable rhyme are associated with the coda node by means of a solid association line,
whereas the non‐sonorants stops and /f/, which are only optionally integrated, are associ-
ated with a dotted association line.
(9)
Rhyme
Nucleus Coda
V (C) (C)
[+sonorant]
–sonorant
–continuant
/f/
S
In this representation, we have opted for a representation of the rhyme with a non‐com-
plex nucleus. This means that sonorant consonants and /S/, but also glides, are considered
coda segments. Our reasons are that falling diphthongs and syllables closed by a consonant
act together as a conditioning context for generalizations that refer to the difference between
light and heavy syllables, because they are united in allowing only /S/ as a third element in
the rhyme, and because otherwise no difference in the behavior between glides and permis-
sible coda consonants was found that would suggest a different syllable affiliation for these
sound classes.
Besides /s/, the set of segments that is obligatorily syllabified in the syllable coda are
sonorants: glides and sonorant consonants. For the latter class, the place of articulation can
be predicted from their major category and manner features, which allows a partially speci-
fied representation of these sounds before consonants and morpheme‐finally. We will see
below that this may be the right representation for nasal consonants. The only non‐sonorant
consonant is the coronal fricative /S/, which realizes the unmarked place feature [coronal].
For oral and nasal diphthongs, the place specification of the glide is contrastive: pai “father,”
mau “bad,” pão “stick,” mãe “mother.”
(10) /l/: [–vocoid, +approximant, + sonorant, – continuant]
/R/: [–vocoid, +approximant, +sonorant, + continuant]
/N/: [–vocoid, – approximant, +sonorant, +nasal]
/S/: [–vocoid, – approximant, – sonorant, + continuant]
Syllable Structure  95
Particularly for EP speakers, the lexically distinctive features of the final segments in the
words below remain unaltered in their surface representation, except for /N/, which most
frequently surfaces as a vocoid.25
In Brazil, a great amount of variation exists for all the non‐
vocoid codas, regionally, but also within a given speech community and within the speech
of a single individual, as is illustrated for word‐final stressed syllables with the following
examples:
(11) Brazil Portugal
ane/l/ “ring” [ɫ] (Southern states) [ɫ]
[w]
ma/R/ “see” [ɾ], [x], [h], [ø] Brazil [ɾ]
marf/iN/ “ivory” [ĩ], [ĩȷ̃], [ĩɲ]
jej/uN/ “fasting” [ũ], [ũw̃],[ũŋ]
armaz/eN/ “storehouse” [ẽ], [ẽȷ̃], [ẽɲ]
edred/oN/ “eider quilt” [õ], [õw̃], [õŋ]
irm/aN/ “sister [ã], [ãŋ]
rapa/S/ “boy” [s], [j
s], [ʃ], [h], [ø] [ʃ]
Despite the great variation in the way underlying /VN/ sequences are pronounced, their
phonetic realization is always predictable. When the phonetic output of the /VN/ sequence
ends in an approximant or a consonantal constriction, the place features are always parasitic
on the place features of the preceding vowel.26
The impossibility of realizing an independent
place feature for coda /N/ can also be observed in the process of borrowing. In loans con-
taining a syllable‐final [VN], normally the original place features are lost and, depending on
the quality of the preceding vowel, the [VN] sequence is realized as in (11) above. For the
original place features to be preserved, the nasal consonant of the borrowed word must be
parsed as an onset: Eng. “Kremlin” ˈKrem[i]lin, Eng. “dancing” [ˈdɐ̃sĩ] or [ˈdɐ̃sĩ(ŋ)
gi], Eng.
“doping” [ˈdɔpĩ], Eng. gin [ʒĩ], Eng. “Ben, proper name” [bẽ]. When the nasal consonant is
the third element in the rhyme in the source language ([VCN]), it is usually preserved as an
onset, as in Eng. “clown” [ˈklawni], Eng. “film” [ˈfiwmi], Eng. “western” [uˈɛstex] or
[uˈɛstexni].27
Since epenthesis seems to be the preferred option to integrate word‐final [VCN]
sequences in BP phonotactics, the alternative form [uˈɛstex] next to [uˈɛstexni] may be
explained by the fact that [x.n] makes a bad syllable contact (see Section (2.4) below).
In (11) above the “weakest” BP realizations of the underlying coda consonants are printed
in boldface. The realization of coda /l/ as [w] is almost general in Brazil and syllable‐final
debuccalization ([h]) or full deletion are widespread realizations of syllable‐final/R/.
Syllable‐final /S/ is more resistant, especially when word‐final, probably because of its
semantic function as the exponence of plurality. Yet, in popular varieties, final [h], zero, or [j]
(through intermediate [j
s], as in rapaz [xaˈpaj
s] > [xaˈpaj] “boy”) are often encountered. If the
view that the popular variants of a language represent its future norm is correct, the
conclusion is justified that the BP variant of Portuguese is developing towards an almost
C(L)V language, with glides as the only possible codas, which are, at the same time, the ideal
codas from the point of view of the SSP.
2.4.  How EP is different
The systematic resort to vowel epenthesis to avoid illicit onsets and codas is typical for the BP
variant of Portuguese. In EP, onset clusters that do not respect the minimal sonority difference
established above for BP, including sonority plateaus, are not unusual. Similarly, word‐
internal sequences occur that do not fit with the canonical syllable structure previously
96  Gisela Collischonn and W. Leo Wetzels
established for BP. In general, while a large part of the phonology of BP conspires to create
open syllables, in EP closed syllables are more tolerated. Also, relatively large consonant
sequences can be created through the deletion of unstressed vowels. The examples below, as
well as all others presented in this section, are from Mateus and d’Andrade (2000).
(12a) Non‐alternating consonant clusters
[ps]icologia “psychology a[bs]urdo “absurd”
[pt]ério “pterion” a[dk]uirir “acquire”
[pn]eu “tire” a[pn]eia “apnea”
[gn]omo “gnome” dia[gn]ose “diagnosis”
(12b)  Consonant clusters created by variable vowel deletion
pequeno [pkénu] “small”
decifrar [dsifráɾ] “decipher”
meter [mteɾ] “put”
devedor [dvdóɾ] “debtor”
despregar [dʃpɾgáɾ] “unfasten”
empedernir [ẽpdɾníɾ] “petrify”
The prosthetic vowel that is obligatory in word‐initial ##sC clusters in BP is dispensed
with in EP:
(13)  espaço [ʃpásu] “space”
esfinge [ʃfĩʒ] “sphynx”
esbirro [ʒbiru] “constable”
esmagar [ʒmɐgáɾ] “crush”
In their account of these facts, Mateus and d’Andrade (2000) distinguish between the
words in (12a) and (13), in which evidence for an underlying vowel is lacking, and the ones
in (12b), for which such evidence exists. The authors hypothesize that “base syllabification”
(2000: 46) in EP is identical with the one established above for BP, except that, where BP
inserts an epenthetic vowel to avoid illicit affiliations of consonants with subsyllabic
constituents, EP creates an empty syllable. On the other hand, the consonant clusters in (12b)
are derived by rules of unstressed vowel deletion which create surface exceptions to the
­
constraints of core syllabification.
According to Mateus and d’Andrade, a number of observations are indicative for the
existence of empty nuclei in EP: 1. EP speakers hesitate between hetero‐ and  tautosyllabic
parsing of intervocalic consonant clusters (a‐dmirar vs. ad‐mirar “admire”), 2. Portuguese
children apply the BP strategy to insert an epenthetic vowel (p[ɨ]neu “tire,” af[ɨ]ta “aphtha”),
3. except for preconsonantal /s/, voice assimilation between consonants in intervocalic clus-
ters does not occur (a[bs]urdo “absurd”), 4. The empty vowels created in EP correspond with
the epenthetic vowels of BP.
The fact that there is variation in the way EP speakers treat intervocalic consonants
­
clusters shows that there is an aversion to the affiliation of non‐sonorant consonants with the
syllable coda also in this variant. This provides evidence for the same distinction made
­
between obligatory and optional coda affiliation for BP in (9) above. However, instead of
positing empty nuclei,28
it would be possible to assume that unsyllabifiable segments remain
Syllable Structure  97
unaffiliated until a point in the grammar where the constraints of core syllabification are
loosened. In BP, the choices available for the syllabification of word‐internal nonsonorant
consonants is either as an onset (if necessary through the creation of a new syllable and
in compliance with the established core syllabification principles) or as a coda (against the
­
constraints of core syllabification). In EP, both available strategies go against the constraints
of core syllabification, one of which is the creation of an illicit coda and the other of which
involves a complex onset that violates the maximal distance requirement for onsets. It is not
made explicit in Matues and d’Andrade (2000) for which type of intervocalic clusters more
than one syllabification option is available in EP.
2.5.  Syllable contact
The role of sonority can also be seen in heterosyllabic segment sequences. As was observed
by Hooper (1976: 220), heterosyllabic segment sequences s1
)σσ
(s2
are preferred cross‐linguisti-
cally in proportion to the extent that s1
has a higher sonority degree than s2
(Syllable Contact
Law). The higher the difference in the degree of sonority between the first and the second
segment, the more harmonic is the syllable transition. In Portuguese, with a preponderance
of sonorant codas, the following syllable contacts are theoretically possible:
(14)  Glide. Glide/Liquid/Nasal/Obstruent
*aw.ja, *aj.wa s1
‐s2
= 0
bai.lar “dance” penei.rar “sift” s1
‐s2
= 1
fleu.ma “apathy” boi.na “beret” s1
‐s2
= 2
pei.to “breast” pou.co “little” s1
‐s2
= 3
(15)  Liquid. Glide/Liquid/Nasal/Obstruent
*al.ja, *al.wa, *ar.ja, *ar.wa s1
‐s2
= −1
or.la “border” guel.ra “gill” s1
‐s2
=   0
ol.mo “elm” car.ne “meat” s1
‐s2
=   1
or.dem “order” al.to “high” s1
‐s2
=  2
(16) Nasal. Glide/Liquid/Nasal/Obstruent
*an.ja, *an.wa s1
‐s2
= −2
Fin.landia “Finland” hon.ra “honor” s1
‐s2
= −1
*an.ma, *am.na s1
‐s2
=   0
on.da “wave” on.ça “snake” s1
‐s2
=  1
(17) /S/. Glide/Liquid/Nasal/Obstruent
*as.ja, *as.wa s1
‐s2
= −3
legis.lar “legislate” Is.rael “Israel” s1
‐s2
= −2
as.no “donkey” cos.mo “cosmos” s1
‐s2
= −1
as.tro “star” es.belto “slender s1
‐s2
=   0
98  Gisela Collischonn and W. Leo Wetzels
The optional syllabification of non‐sonorant coda consonants set aside, almost all the ­logically
possible syllable contacts are attested in Portuguese. In addition to the heterosyllabic sequence of
nasal consonants, the only sequences that are systematically absent are the ones in which s2
rep-
resents a glide. In a sequence of a consonant plus a high vowel, the high vowel tends to be syl-
labified as a nucleus (tapi.ˈoca , *tap.ˈjoca “tapioca”) or, in more rapid speech, it may function as
the second member of a complex onset (ta.ˈ[pj]oca). In sequences of high vowels the creation of
word‐internal codas is avoided: tuiuiu “bird spec.” is pronounced [tujuˈju], not *[tuj.ˈwiw] or
*[tuj.wiˈu].29
Of the remaining syllable transitions, which are all attested in the native vocabu-
lary, there is a very significant difference in the frequency of occurrence between bad and good
syllable contacts in the way predicted by the Syllable Contact Law. If the coda contains a
sonorant segment, only the syllable contacts for which s1
minus s2
≥ 1 are frequent. If the coda is
/S/, the more frequent transitions obey the requirement that s1
minus s2
≥ −1.
Heterosyllabic sequences that are not allowed or are infrequent may be created by
processes of word formation. In Portuguese, especially prefixation and compounding may
produce syllable transitions that are otherwise disfavored in the language: enredar “entangle”
(en− Prefix
+ redStem
+ −arSuffix
), enlouquecer “to go mad” (en− Prefix
+ louquStem
+ −ecerSuffix
), bem‐
remunerado “well paid.” This points to the fact that the syllable contact requirements only
hold inside the phonological word (cf. Schwindt, 2004).
3.  Syllable structure and syllabification
With the recognition of the syllable as a unit of prosodic structure, the question of how lan-
guages parse sequences of phonological segments into syllables becomes important. The
general absence of cross‐linguistic syllabification contrasts combined with the generative
grammar view of the lexicon as the depository of morphemes devoid of their predictable
properties has motivated the decision that syllable structure is not encoded in the lexical rep-
resentation of morphemes. Consequently, interpretive theories must make explicit how the
underlying phonological sequences are syllabified. In the recent history of phonological
theory three main views on how syllable structure is derived can be distinguished: (1) syl-
lable structure is built by ordered rules (Kahn, 1976; Clements and Keyser, 1983; Harris 1983,
among others), (2) syllable structure is assigned to a string by a mapping procedure which
obeys universal principles and language particular conditions (Selkirk, 1982; Ito, 1986,
among others), and (3) different syllable structures result from different typologies that
emerge from language‐particular rankings of universal but violable constraints.
Studies which have sought to determine the principles of syllabification for Portuguese in
a derivational model are Mateus and d’Andrade (2000) and Bisol (1999), among others.
Collischonn (1997) deals with the syllable structure of BP following Ito’s templatic approach.
Lee (1999) provides a preliminary analysis of Portuguese syllabification based on universal
constraints within Optimality Theory (OT). Keller and Alves (2010) discuss from a more
general perspective the advantages of the way OT accounts for syllable structure cross‐lin-
guistically, with an eye on Portuguese. In the following we provide a broad outline of how
the different approaches account for the basic syllable structure of Portuguese and how the
Brazilian variety resolves illicit phonotactic structures through epenthesis.
In Bisol (1999), a set of ordered rules is proposed by which sequences of segments are
parsed into syllables. The first rule designates vowels as the syllable nuclei. Subsequently, by
virtue of the Onset First Principle (OFP), consonants to the left of a nucleus are turned into
onsets in accordance with the Basic Syllable Template (BST) of Portuguese, similar to the tem-
plate‐cum‐filters model proposed in (9) above. Finally, the remaining segments are integrated
as codas, again in conformity with the BST, which, in Bisol’s proposal, provides for a single
coda position. When /s/ remains unparsed after onsets and codas are syllabified, a separate
Syllable Structure  99
/s/‐adjunction rule associates this consonant as a second coda segment. The procedure is
illustrated below with the word claustro [ˈklaws.tru] “cloister.”
(18)
ρ ρ
ν ν ν ν ν ν
a) Nucleus projection b) Onset formation
ο ρ ο ρ ο ρ ο ρ
ν ν ν ν
k l a u s t r o k l a u s t r o
k l a u s t r o
k l a u s t r o
c) Coda formation d) /s/-adjunction
σ σ σ
ρ ρ ρ ρ
ο ο
σ σ σ
σ σ σ
σ
In (18a) every vowel projects a nucleus, which automatically involves the projection of the
rhyme and syllable nodes. Subsequently, consonants to the left of the nucleus are integrated
iteratively into the syllable as onsets to the extent allowed by the BST. In Bisol (1999), every
vowel present in the string is identified initially as a syllable nucleus. Since high vowels are
allowed in the syllable coda, they lose their status as a nucleus in the process of coda
formation, as is illustrated in (18c). Finally, in (18d), /s/‐adjunction takes place.
In Bisol’s proposal, syllabification obeys the Principle of Prosodic Licensing (PPL),
­
formulated by Ito (1986), which requires all prosodic units of a given level to be parsed as
constituents of the immediately dominating prosodic category. Consequently, all segments
must be syllabified, or, when syllabification of some segment is not allowed by the rules of
the language, some proviso must be made for the segment string to comply with the PPL. If
the stray segment is in the word‐periphery, it can be given the status of an extrametrical
­
segment, which may become integrated into the syllable structure in the course of word‐
formation (or postlexically, depending on the language). Other options involve the deletion
of the unsyllabifiable segment or the creation of a new syllable nucleus with which the stray
segment can be affiliated. It is equally possible, especially in models that allow different
lexical strata or distinguish between a lexical and a postlexical stratum, to enlarge the set of
segments that can be affiliated with a specific syllable constituent at a later level.
To conclude, in Bisol’s proposal, the rules that construct syllable structure are governed by
general principles, such as the OFP and the PPL, and language‐specific rules and filters. These
mechanisms have a dual function: they constrain the number and nature of syllable types in
a given language and also call for repair mechanisms to deal with segments which the regular
syllabification rules are not allowed to parse (at least at some early level of representation).
According to the view introduced in Selkirk (1982), syllabification is not constructed by
ordered rules, but is an automatic process which complies with a number of general con-
ditions. This idea is further elaborated in Ito (1986) within a “Principles and Parameters”
perspective, in which syllable‐building rules give way to generalizations of a more universal
character. Ito proposes a model of syllabification as continuous template matching, gov-
erned by universal and language‐specific syllable well‐formedness conditions and a direc-
tionality parameter. The syllable template defines the global syllable pattern of a given
100  Gisela Collischonn and W. Leo Wetzels
language, whereas the directionality parameter establishes the direction (left‐to right or
right‐to‐left) in which the template is mapped upon the segmental string.
Inspired by Ito’s proposal, Collischonn (1997) proposes for Portuguese the syllable
template [CCVCC]. Each time a string of segments matches the template, a syllable is built.
Segments that do not fit the syllabic template are left without a syllable affiliation. In a sec-
ond scan, consonants that do not match with the syllabic template, as for example the word‐
internal /k/ in cacto “cactus” /σ
(ka)σ
k.σ
(to)σ
/, have an empty nucleus inserted at their right,
thus allowing syllabic affiliation of these stray consonants as the onset of the newly created
syllable. The empty nucleus is subsequently filled with a high front vowel: [ˈka.ki.tu]. No
specific epenthesis rule is needed. Below, the procedure is exemplified with the words pneu
[pinew] “tire” and escola [eskɔla] “school,” which show different epenthesis sites in BP.
(19) 
[CCVCC] [CCVCC] [CCVCC]
p n e u s k ɔ l a
[CCVCC] [CCVCC]
σ1 σ3 σ1
σ2
σ2
In (19), the subscripts to the syllable symbols indicate the order in which the syllables are
constructed. Since the directionality parameter is set as R L, segments are linked with the
rightmost matching C and V positions of the template. When a syllable is built, the template
shifts to the left and the procedure is repeated until the phoneme sequence is syllabified. This
scanning of the phoneme sequence yields the parses pσ
(neu)σ
and sσ
(kɔ)σσ
(la)σ
.
In principle, the epenthesis site follows from the directionality parameter setting. In a R
L setting, when the template encounters a consonant that has remained unsyllabified after the
first scan, a nucleus is created to the left of the stray consonant, with which the latter forms a
new syllable. This is illustrated with the word escola, in which the syllable 63
is the result of
nucleus formation.30
However, in the case of pneu, the empty nucleus is inserted to the right
of the stray consonant, contrary to expectation. Collischonn accounts for this by observing
that, as /p/ is not a possible coda consonant, a sequence *[ipneu] would not be a well‐formed
word in BP. Therefore, the template creates a nucleus to the right of the stray /p/.
As was shown in Selkirk’s (1982) and Ito’s (1986) approaches, syllabification can be
achieved without language‐specific rules, although (partly) language‐specific templates and
language specific filters or constraints remain necessary. As it turns out, filters and con-
straints that seem language‐specific at first sight, turn out to be very similar cross‐linguisti-
cally, such as the requirement on minimal sonority differences between members of complex
onsets and complex codas, the avoidance of sequences with identical place and/or manner
features, the relatively high sonority of coda consonants in languages in which not all conso-
nants are permissible codas, etc. For these reasons, alongside the well‐known fact that syllab-
ification is at least partially governed by universal principles, it doesn’t come as a surprise
that Optimality Theory (OT) is rather successful in accounting for syllabification cross‐
linguistically. In OT, language-specific rules do not exist. Instead, universal markedness and
faithfulness constraints interact to account for the surface shape of lexical morphemes in a
givenlanguage.Faithfulnessconstraintsmilitateforthepreservationofastrictcorrespondence
between bases and outputs, while markedness constraints enforce changes of the input rep-
resentations in favor of unmarked segmental or phonotactic structures. Differences between
languages are accounted for by different rankings of the universal constraints.
Syllable Structure  101
In OT, the focus changes from the procedures that generate syllable structure to the evaluation
of competing syllable parsings of a given string.As any other adequate theory of syllabification,
OT must account for what the syllable patterns of Portuguese are and what segments may
occupy which positions. The basic syllable patterns of Portuguese are CV, CVC, V, VC, CCV,
VCC, CCVC, CVCC, and CCVCC, where the postvocalic C represents a consonant or a glide.
This means that syllables may or may not have onsets or codas, and onsets and codas may be
complex. In OT these patterns can be derived by the interaction of the following constraints, of
which (20 a, b) are markedness constraints and (20c, d) are faithfulness constraints:
(20)  a.  ONSET: Syllables must start with an onset
b. *CODA: Syllables must end in a vowel
c. *DEL(ETION) (MAX‐IO): Input segments must have output correspondents
d. *EP(ENTHESIS) (DEP‐IO): Output segments must have input correspondents
Portuguese allows for syllables without onsets word‐initially and word‐internally. ONSET
and *CODA require intervocalic consonants to be parsed as onsets, everything else being
equal. However, to satisfy ONSET, at least in the partial grammar given in Table 6.1, in which
*DEL and *EP are ranked above ONSET,31
no segments may be added or deleted to avoid
syllables without onsets.
The relation between the input sequence /atras/ and the output candidates (a–f) is deter-
mined by the functions GEN, which generates for every input an unlimited list of output
candidates and EVAL, which evaluates the candidate set for the given constraint ranking.
The optimal candidate is the most harmonic one, i.e. the one that violates the constraints
minimally. Table 6.1 shows the relevant constraints at work to determine that, among the
(limited) set of candidates considered here as outputs for the underlying sequence /atras/,
the most harmonic candidate from the point of view of syllable structure is [a.tras].
In Portuguese, only two‐consonant sequences can be analyzed as complex onsets. Moreover,
of all the possible two‐consonant sequences only a small subset qualifies as well‐formed. Also,
while only sonorant consonants and /s/ are acceptable in the syllable coda, the only possible
complex coda is a sequence of a sonorant consonant followed by /s/. To account for these
restrictions, the grammar must assign segments with specific properties to specific syllable
constituents. One way of achieving this is to have constraints that relate syllable positions with
major sound classes or their corresponding sonority values, as exposed in (9) above.
We have seen that two‐consonant onsets maintain between their constituting members a
minimal sonority distance of 2 on the sonority scale. The requirement of a minimal sonority
distance of two grades on the sonority scale between the segments of a complex onset would
at the same time account for the non‐existence of three‐consonant onsets in Portuguese, since
Table 6.1  Portuguese syllable structure (partial)
/atras/ “behind” *DEL *EP Onset *CODA
a. a.tras   * *
b. ta.tras *! *
c. tras *! *
d. a.tra *! *
e. atr.as **! **
f. at.ras * **!
102  Gisela Collischonn and W. Leo Wetzels
no sequence of consonants C1
C2
C3
could be rising in sonority and at the same time maintain
a sonority distance of minimally 2 between C1
C2
and between C2
C3
. We therefore propose the
constraint32
(21) Minimum Sonority Distanceonset
(MSDonset
): in an onset sequence C1
…Cn
, for every
pair of contiguous consonants Cx
Cy
, the sonority value of Cy
minus the sonority
value of Cx
≥ 2
In terms of the constraint (21) the sequence /pn/ in /pnew/ will have a sonority distance
1, whereas /fl/ as in /flor/ has a sonority distance 2. A sequence /rn/ has a sonority distance
of ‐1. Consequently, of the examples given, only /fl/ is a well‐formed onset of Portuguese.
We have seen earlier that when BP borrows words from another language with syllable
patterns that are ill‐formed from the perspective of BP, segments are not deleted in the bor-
rowing process. Instead, new syllables are created through the epenthesis of a high vowel:
[i]smith “Smith,” p[i]sicologia “psychology,” cap[i]tar “capture,” club[i] “club.” In the first
three words, the sequences broken up by epenthesis are ill‐formed onsets in Portuguese.
Also, except for [i]smith, in none of the examples cited, the consonant that functions as the
onset of the epenthesized nucleus would qualify as a well‐formed coda. For this reason, the
only way to bring a word like psicologia in line with BP phonotactics without deleting seg-
ments is to break up the cluster the way it is done, since the alternative [i]psicologia would
contain an illicit coda. As it turns out, the epenthesis site can be predicted by the interaction
of the MSD constraint, which disqualifies /ps, pt, sm, etc./ as grammatical onsets and a con-
straint that disallows obstruents in the syllable coda, except /s/. The constraint in (22) bans
obstruents from the syllable coda:
(22)  *Obstruentcoda
: Obstruents are not allowed in the syllable coda
The constraint above defines /s/ as a member of the set of illicit codas. Yet, we have seen
that in Portuguese, sonorant consonants, glides and /s/ may close a syllable. Indeed, the
inclusion of /s/ in the set of permissible codas is surprising, because /s/ does not constitute a
natural class with glides and sonorant consonants in terms of its major category features. The
coronal fricative is moreover exceptional for being the only segment allowed to form a com-
plex coda. Considering the way a word‐initial ##sC sequence is resolved, it is again surprising
to see that it is different from the way other sequences with an identical sonority profile are
treated, for example ##ps or ##pt.After all, Smith could be adapted as s[i]mith instead of [i]smith.
Several ways are proposed in the literature to account for the deviant behavior of /s/, one of
which is to separate /s/ from the class of obstruents and assign it a different place on the
sonority scale. Here, we prefer to maintain the relative simplicity of the sonority scale provided
above, which is fully adequate to account for Portuguese syllable structure, including the fact
that ##sC clusters are treated as ill‐formed onsets on a par with any combination of segments
of the obstruent class, which fact suggests that /sC/ constitutes a sonority plateau. We propose
instead the constraint below,33
which gives /s/ the special status it appears to have:
(23) Licence /s/coda
(Lic/s/): /s/ must be syllabified in the syllable coda
As all constraints, Lic/s/ is violable and therefore /s/ can be forced into the syllable
onset by a higher ranked constraint, such as ONSET. This is shown in Table 6.2, which also
­contains MSD:
In Table 6.2, a relevant candidate set corresponding with the underlying sequences is
evaluated for the proposed constraint ranking. The high ranking of *DEL assures that dele-
tion is not an option to enforce ONSET satisfaction, while the low ranking of *EP34
turns this
Syllable Structure  103
constraint inefficient in the selection of the optimal candidate. Consequently, in order to sat-
isfy the higher‐ranked constraints, *EP is violated when necessary. The ranking ONSET >>
Lic/s />> *Obstrcoda
accounts for the typical behavior of /s/, which is syllabified as an onset
only between vowels. Elsewhere /s/ will be affiliated to the syllable as a coda.
4. Conclusion
In this chapter we have characterized the Portuguese syllable focusing on the structures
shared by both the EP and BP variants. We have shown that, for both variants, a major part
of the syllable structure is identical and obligatory, which obeys the SSP as well as a number
Table 6.2
MSD *DEL ONSET Lic/s/ *Obstrcoda
*EP
/kasaR/ “hunt”
a. ka.sar   *
b. kas.ar *! *
/smis/ “Smith”
a. is.mis   * * *
b. si.mis *! * *
c. smis *! * *
d. mis *!
/kɔbra/ “snake”
a. kɔ.bra
b. kɔb.ra *!
/psikoloʒia/ “psychology”
a. pi.si.k…   * *
b. ip.si.k… * *! *
c. psi.k… *! *
d. si.k… *! *
/kaptaR/ “capture”
a. ka.pi.tar   * *
b. kap.tar *!*
c. ka.tar *! *
d. ka.ptar *! *
/klub/ “club”
a. klu.bi   *
b. klub *!
c. klu *!
104  Gisela Collischonn and W. Leo Wetzels
of specific constraints that account for the association of certain segment classes with specific
syllable constituents. In both EP and BP, the MRC makes only two positions available in the
rhyme, with /S/ being the only segment that can be added as a third element. Another part
of the syllable structure is less categorical and offers options to the speakers, which are
partially different for EP and BP. While for BP one of the options complies with the con-
straints of core syllabification, in EP both options violate the principles of core syllabification
in different ways. Moreover, in EP, large scale unstressed vowel deletion creates strings of
consonants allowing segments other than vowels, such as liquids and fricatives, to shift to
the nuclear position giving way to a (partial) resyllabification of the segmental string at the
phonetic level. Future research will likely reveal that this process follows in its own way the
general preference of syllables for relatively high sonorant nuclei and for syllable margins to
respect the sonority slopes as required by the SSP with reference to a more elaborate sonority
scale than the one necessary for the core syllabification.
notes
1	 Such as the língua do pê “p‐language,” very popular among youngsters in Brazil, which consists in
adding the syllable [pe] before each syllable of a word. For example, gato “cat” becomes [pe.ˌga.pe.ˌto].
2	 See Chapters 4, A Comparative Study of the Sounds of European and Brazilian Portuguese:
Phonemes and Allophones, and 28, Main Current Processes of Phonological Variation.
3	 But see Chapter 5, Phonological ProcessesAffecting Vowels: Neutralization, Harmony, and Nasalization.
4	 Similar findings for PE are reported in Vigário, Martins, and Frota (2006).
5	Or “resonance,” according to Clements (2009): “The most resonant speech sounds are […] those
with a prominent, relatively undamped formant structure. Sounds having this property include
not only vowels, the resonants par excellence, but also semivowels, liquids and nasals…”
6	 We leave open the question of how exactly the difference between the nuclear and the marginal
position of high vowels is to be expressed theoretically.
7	 The palatal lateral /ʎ/ does not appear in any kind of cluster, whether tautosyllabic or heterosyllabic.
8	 There are some exceptions in proper nouns, such as Vladimir, which is moreover a loan.
9	 The prohibition on /dl/ onsets and the rarity of /tl/ and /dr/ onsets are inherited from Latin
(Cf. Marotta, 1999).
10	Here and below, /s/ in /sC/ represents the set of coronal fricatives.
11	 The words we use to refer to the major sound classes in (2) are shorthand notations for their feature
definitions provided in the sonority scale above.
12	 The symbols /S/ and /N/ represent the coronal fricative and nasal consonant non‐specified for
voice and place of articulation when occurring in the syllable coda. In most dialects of BP, /l/ is
vocalized syllable‐finally. However, /l/ is nevertheless part of lexical representations to account
[w] ~[l] alternations: ane[w] “ring,” anelar “to curl,” anelão “big ring,” aneleira “ring case.”
13	 See Chapter 4 for details.
14	 See Chapter 7 for details.
15	 The representation in (6) represents a palatalized consonant rather than a palatal consonant. In his
palatographic study on BP palatal consonants Cagliari (1974) observes: “Portuguese /ʎ/ is charac-
terized by being central, very often tending towards [lj
j],” where [lj
j] represents a palatalized lateral
followed by a coronal glide.
16	 C in (6) represents a consonantal root node characterized by the appropriate major class specifica-
tions for the nasal and the liquid, as in the sonority scale above.
17	 In Portuguese, a considerable number of words exists with antepenultimate stress, but only when
the prefinal syllable is light.
18	 BP has (surface) contrastive nasal vowels (lombo [lõbu] “sirloin” vs. lobo “wolf”) and nasalized
vowels pino [pĩnu] “pin.” Here we refer to the former category. See also Chapters 4 and 5.
19	 Although there are quite a few exceptions, especially among words ending in /eN/, many of
which have a doublet without final /N/: abdómen/abdome “abdomen.”
Syllable Structure  105
Alves, U. K. and T. Keller (2010). Sílaba. In L.
Bisol and L. C. Schwindt (eds.), Teoria da
Otimidade. São Paulo: Pontes, pp. 57–92.
Bisol, L. (1998). A Nasalidade, um Velho Tema.
DELTA, 14, São Paulo, pp. 27–46.
Bisol, L. (1999). A Sílaba e Seus Constituintes. In
M. H. de Moura Neves (ed.), Gramática do
Português Falado, VII. Campinas: UNICAMP/
FAPESP, pp. 701–742.
Camara Jr, J. M. (1971). Problemas de lingüística
descritiva 4th edition, Editora Vozes Limitada,
Petrópolis, RJ. Brazil.
Cagliari, L. C. (1974). A palatalização em
Português: Uma investigação palatográfica.
Unpublished MA thesis. Universidade
Estadual de Campinas, Campinas. Brazil.
Clements, G. N. (2009). Does sonority have a
phonetic basis? In E. Raimy and C. E. Cairns
(eds.), Contemporary Views on Architecture and
Representations in Phonology. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press, pp. 165–176.
Clements, G. N. and S. J. Keyser (1983). CV
Phonology: a Generative Theory of the Syllable
(Linguistic Inquiry Monograph 9). MIT Press
Cambridge, Ma.
Clements, G. N. and E. Hume (1995). The
internal organization of speech sounds. In J.
Goldsmith (ed.), The Handbook of Phonological
20	 See Hermans and Wetzels (2012) for lists of acronyms, fantasy first names, and brand names.
21	 There also exist phonetic nasal diphthongs, derived from nasal vowels, especially word‐final /eN/
and /oN/, which can be realized optionally as [ẽ  ȷ̃] and [õw
  ̃], respectively.
22	 Chapter 5 presents a different proposal for the underlying structure of (part of) BP nasal diphthongs.
23	 Most of the following examples are taken from Freitas (1992).
24	 See the discussion in Sections 2.4 and 3 for how non‐sonorant coda consonants may be dealt with
in different theories of the syllable.
25	 See also Chapter 5.
26	 In word‐internal /VN/ sequences, the consonantal point of articulation can also be homorganic
with the following consonant. See Chapter 4 for more details.
27	 English loans are taken from Freitas (1992).
28	On the assumption that there is no alternation in EP between an empty nucleus and an epenthetic
vowel in adult speech.
29	Heterosyllabic sequences of glides are occasionally found in the non‐native vocabulary, as in
Taiwan, or Wajwaj “Indigenous group.”
30	 Interestingly, as Collischonn (1997: 164, footnote 20) points out, when loans are borrowed into BP
that start with a palatal fricative /ʃ/, the epenthetic vowel is inserted to the right, as in the names
Schmidt and Schneider, from German origin: [ʃi]midt, [ʃi]neider, while similar words from English
origin, such as Smith are adapted as [is.]mith. In almost all dialects of Portuguese the contrast bet-
ween alveolar and palatal fricatives is neutralized in the syllable coda. Therefore, the contrast
[is.]mith and [iʃ.]midt in the original words cannot be expressed in the coda in Portuguese.
Consequently, the different syllable integration of /ʃ/ as compared to /s/ could be considered a
loan strategy, through which speakers manage to maintain the contrast between /s, ʃ/, syllabifying
/ʃ/ as an onset.
31	 The limited set of data discussed here contain no evidence that *DEL and *EP are ranked with
regard to each other. This is indicated by the dotted lines in the tableau, as opposed to the solid
lines, which indicate crucial rankings. Below it will be shown that *DEL must be crucially ranked
above *EP.
32	 We assume that the constraint in (21) is part of a family of MSD constraints for which the value for
n varies in Cx – Cy ≥ n.
33	 A formulation more in line with OT would be: “assign a violation mark * for every /s/ not associ-
ated with the syllable coda,” which would leave open the possibility for other ways of satisfying
the constraint, such as /s/‐deletion.
34	 *EP should be understood as “No vowel epenthesis,” since a higher ranked *EP/consonant should
avoid that psicólogo surfaces as p[i]s[t]icólogo in order to bring /s/ in line with Lic/s/.
References
106  Gisela Collischonn and W. Leo Wetzels
Theory. Cambridge, MA: Blackwell,
pp. 245–317.
Freitas, M. A. (1992). Empréstimos, Teoria
Auto‐segmental e Abertura Vocálica. Cadernos
de Estudos Linguisticos. Número Especial,
Fonologia do Português, 23, pp. 71–81.
Freitas, M. J. (2001). Sons de ataque: Segmentos
complexos, grupos segmentais e representações
fonológicas na aquisição do Português
Europeu. Letras de Hoje, 36 (3), pp. 67–84.
Goedemans, R. W. N. (2010). A typology of stress
patterns. In H. G. van der Hulst, R. W. N.
Goedemans, and E. A. van Zanten (eds.), A
Survey of Word Accentual Patterns in the
Languages of the World. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter, pp. 647–666.
Gonçalves, C. A. V. (2009). Introdução à Morfologia
Não‐Linear. Rio de Janeiro: Publit.
Harris, J. (1983). Syllable Structure and Stress in
Spanish: a Nonlinear Analysis. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Hayes, B. (1989). Compensatory lengthening in
moraic phonology. Linguistic Inquiry, 20 (2),
pp. 253–306.
Hermans, B. and W. L. Wetzels (2012). Productive
and unproductive stress patterns in Brazilian
Portuguese. Revista Letras & Letras, 28, pp. 77–115.
Hooper, J. (1976). An Introduction to Natural
Generative Phonology. New York: Academic Press.
Hyman, L. M. (1985). A Theory of Phonological
Weight. Dordrecht: Foris.
Ito, J. (1986). Syllable Theory in Prosodic
Phonology. Ph.D. dissertation, University of
Massachusetts, Amherst.
Kahn, D. (1976). Syllable-based Generalisations in
English Phonology. Ph.D. dissertation, MIT,
Cambridge, MA, USA.
Lamprecht, R. R. (2004). Aquisição fonológica do
Português. In R. R. Lamprecht (ed.), Aquisição
Fonológica do Português. Perfil de
Desenvolvimento e Subsídios para Terapia. Porto
Alegre: Artmed.
Lee, S. H. (1999). Teoria da Otimalidade e
Silabificação do PB. In V. Benn‐Ibler, E. A. de
Mendonça Mendes, and P. M. Oliveira (eds.),
Revisitações – Edição Comemorativa dos 30 anos
da FALE/UFMG. Belo Horizonte: UFMG,
pp. 43–156.
Magalhães, J. (2004). O Plano Multidimensional do
Acento na Teoria da Otimidade. MA thesis,
PUCRS, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
Marotta, G. (1999). The Latin syllable. In H. van
der Hulst and N. A. Ritter (eds.). The Syllable:
Views and Facts. De Gruyter, Berlin.
pp. 285–310.
Massini‐Cagliari, G. (2005). A musica da fala dos
trovadores: Estudos de prosódia do Portugues
Arcaico, a partir das cantigas profanas e religiosas,
Livre‐Docencia em Fonologia, Universidade
Estadual Paulista Araraquara, Brazil.
Mateus, M. H. and E. d’Andrade (2000). The
Phonology of Portuguese. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Murray, R. W. and T. Vennemann (1983). Sound
change and syllable structure in Germanic
phonology. Language, 59, pp. 514–528.
Selkirk, E. (1982). The syllable. In H. Van der
Hulst and N. Smith (eds.), The Structure of
Phonological Representations, volume 2.
Dordrecht: Foris, pp. 337–383.
Schwindt, L. C. (2004). Produtividade,
Transparência e Estatuto Prosódico de Palavras
Derivadas por Prefixação em Português
Brasileiro e Espanhol Peninsular. Organon
(UFRGS), Porto Alegre, 18 (36), pp. 131–137.
Viaro, M. E. and Z. O. Guimarães Filho (2007).
Análise Quantitativa da Freqüência dos Fonemas e
Estruturas Silábicas Portuguesas. Estudos
Lingüísticos, São Paulo, XXXVI, pp. 28–36.
Vigário, M., F. Martins, and S. Frota (2006).
A Ferramenta FreP e a Frequência de Tipos
Silábicos e Classes de Segmentos no Português.
In F. Oliveira and J. Barbosa (eds.), XXI Encontro
da Associação Portuguesa de Linguística. Textos
Seleccionados. Lisbon: APL, pp. 675–687.
Wetzels, W. L. (1997). The lexical representation
of nasality in Brazilian Portuguese. Probus, 9
(2), pp. 203–232.
Wetzels, W. L. (2000a). Comentários Sobre a
Estrutura Fonológica dos Ditongos Nasais no
Português do Brasil. Revista de Letras, 22 (1/2),
pp. 25–30.
Wetzels, W. L. (2000b). Consoantes Palatais como
Geminadas Fonológicas no Português Brasileiro.
Revista de Estudos da Linguagem, 9, pp. 5–15.
Wetzels, W. L. (2006/7). Primary stress in
Brazilian Portuguese and the quantity
parameter. In G. Elordieta and M. Vigário
(eds.), Journal of Portuguese Linguistics Vol 5/6,
Special Issue on the Prosody of the Iberian
Languages, pp. 9–58.
Wetzels, W. L. (2007). A Silabificação das Vogais
Altas no Português Brasileiro. Paper presented
at the III Seminário Internacional de Fonologia,
Pontifícia Universidade Católica de Rio
Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
Vulgar Latin and Medieval Portuguese had a quite simple stress pattern, with primary stress
falling on the second syllable counting from the right side of the word or on the final syllable
if it was closed (Williams 1975; Massini‐Cagliari 1994). At least for primary stress, this pattern
has remained characteristic of the language currently spoken in Brazil and Portugal. However,
sound changes and borrowings created words with stress on a final open syllable, while at
various moments in the history of Portuguese, especially since the fifteenth century, words
with proparoxytonic stress have become integrated into the language.
In this chapter, we will discuss the regular and irregular stress patterns of Portuguese,
which, as we assume, are basically identical for the Brazilian and European varieties. We will
also provide an overview of the different theoretical accounts that have been proposed for
Portuguese stress, which reveal profound differences of opinion about what exactly the
explanatory principles are underlying the regular stress patterns. Whereas scholars working
on Brazilian Portuguese, such as Bisol (1994), Wetzels (2003, 2006), and Magalhães (2004,
2008), are strong advocates of the role of heavy syllables as stress attractors, others, especially
specialists in European Portuguese, reject the relevance of syllable weight, arguing instead
for a morphology‐based analysis of main stress (d’Andrade and Laks (1992); Pereira (1999);
Mateus and d’Andrade (2000).Another point of disagreement concerns the question whether
the stress principles apply cross‐categorically or whether verbs and non‐verbs represent
­
different subsystems, which must consequently be described separately.
While there are no noteworthy differences relative to the location of primary stress in the
European and Brazilian varieties of Portuguese, secondary stress shows some differences in
connected speech, which will also be addressed.
2.  A note on the history of Portuguese stress
The regular stress pattern of contemporary Portuguese continues a centuries‐old pattern
which goes back to Vulgar Latin, with stress being located on one of the two word‐final
syllables.
Main Stress and Secondary
Stress in Brazilian and European
Portuguese
José Magalhães1
7
108  José Magalhães
Vulgar Latin is different from Classical Latin in two major respects. First, the durational
contrast for vowels that existed in Classical Latin disappeared in Vulgar Latin, as exempli-
fied with the words in (1). (Here and henceforth, stressed syllables are bold).
(1)  Classical Latin  Vulgar Latin 
acētum acétu “sour”
sudōrem sudóre “sweat”
Furthermore, in Vulgar Latin, a small number of words had changed from proparoxytonic to
paroxytonic through a number of processes. In words with a / Cr / cluster in the onset of the
final syllable stress shifted one syllable to the right (2). Other processes had altered the seg-
mental structure of the Classical Latin word, such as syncope (3), or the fusion between a
consonant and a following prevocalic coronal high vowel (4).
(2)  Classical Latin  Vulgar Latin 
íntegrum intégru “entire”
cólubra colóbra “snake”
(3) vernáculus  vernáclus  “vernacular”
Artículus artíclus “article”
(4) bá.ni.u bá.ny
u “bath”
pá.li.a pá.ly
a “straw”
lán.ci.a lán.cy
a “spear”
By the beginning of the archaic period, around the thirteenth century, words with stress on
the antepenultimate syllable have become rare (Massini‐Cagliari, 1995, 1999). On the other
hand, at this stage of the language, words with final stress, unknown during the Latin period,
have become very frequent, due to the historical processes of vowel and consonant deletion
(cf. Vasconcelloz, 1900; Nunes, 1975; Williams, 1975).
(5) Vulgar Latim  Old Portuguese 
a.mó.re a.mór “love”
fi.dé.le fi.él “faithful”
do.ló.re do.ór “pain”
fe.lí.ce fe.líz “happy”
The entrance of words with proparoxytonic stress into the Portuguese lexicon happened
mainly in the fifteenth and sixteenth century, generally through borrowings from Greek and
Latin (Araújo et al, 2007). All these stress patterns are carried over into Modern Portuguese.
For a global assessment of the stress patterns of Modern Portuguese, consider the
words in (6):
(6) a. vá.le	  “valley” b.  ca.fé	 “coffee”
pór.ta	  “door” so.fá	 “couch”
pa.lí.to	  “stick” pa.le.tó	 “suit”
c. fu.níl	 “funnel” d. fá.cil	 “easy”
tam.bór	 “drum” lí.der	 “leader”
co.ro.nél	 “colonel” mó.vel	 “furniture”
e. ma.te.má.ti.ca	 “mathematics” 
prá.ti.co	 “practical”
có.mo.do	 “comfortable”
Main Stress and Secondary Stress in Brazilian and European Portuguese  109
The words in (6a) show the trochaic pattern, which is considered the unmarked pattern
by most scholars. For those seeking a phonology‐based description of Portuguese stress,
the words in (6c) are integrated into the regular pattern by defining the trochaic foot over
pairs of moras instead of syllables. Researchers who argue in favor of a morphology‐
based account locate regular stress on the last vowel of the root. From their perspective,
this explains why the words in (6a) have stress on the prefinal syllable, since the last
syllable contains the theme vowel as a nucleus, which is skipped by the stress rule. On
the other hand, stress falls regularly on the last syllables in athematic nouns, exemplified
in (6b) and (6c).
The words in (6b), (6d), and (6e) are qualified as exceptions by weight‐based analysis,
whereas the words in (6d) and (6e) cannot be explained by morphology‐based accounts.
Most scholars agree that syllable weight does not play an explicative role in the determina-
tion of stress in verbs, a fact which is presented by the proponents of the morphology‐based
theory as a strong point in favor of a generalized morphology‐based account of Portuguese
stress.
3.  Primary stress: the data
Experimental studies by Major (1981) and Massini‐Cagliari (1992) have shown that the
acoustic correlates of main stress in Brazilian Portuguese (henceforth BP) are duration,
fundamental frequency (F0), and intensity, where the given order mirrors their decreasing
importance. Duration and energy were found to be the main phonetic correlate of main
stress in European Portuguese (henceforth EP) in a study by Delgado Martins (1986, apud
Pereira 1999), who found, moreover, that these properties can be established instrumentally
for final and antepenultimate stress, but much less systematically for stress on the penulti-
mate syllable.
3.1.  Stress in verbs
Whereas scholars disagree about the conditioning factors that account for the distribution of
main stress in non‐verbs, there is agreement that stress in verbs interacts with morphology,
as described by Wetzels (2006) for BP and Mateus (1990) or Mateus and d’Andrade (2000) for
EP. In the following, we present Wetzels’ account of verbal stress, which at the same time
serves as an introduction to the relevant empirical data, leaving the discussion of alternative
accounts for a later section.
Generalizing over the three existing verb conjugations identified on the basis of their
theme vowel (TV), Wetzels (2006) defends the idea that verb stress in Portuguese
enhances the existing tense distinctions distinguished in the Portuguese verb: present,
past, and future.
The past tense forms, which include the perfect past, imperfect past, pluperfect past, and
the imperfect past of the subjunctive mood, receive stress on the theme vowel, as stated in (7):
(7) XVC0
]root
V́]theme
Y0
]past
Past tense forms are accented on the last vowel of the verbal theme (adapted from
Wetzels, 2006: 40.)
The generalization in (7) is illustrated below with the verbs falar “speak” (a‐theme, first
conjugation), bater “beat” (e‐theme, second conjugation), and partir “leave” (i‐theme, third
conjugation). The different forms are given in the traditional order, from top to bottom: 1sg,
2sg, 3sg, 1pl, 2pl, 3pl.
110  José Magalhães
(8)  Stress in past tense forms
Indicative imperfect
fal]root
a]theme
va bat]root
i]theme
a part]root
i]theme
a
fal]root
a]theme
vas bat]root
i]theme
as  part]root
i]theme
as
fal]root
a]theme
va bat]root
i]theme
a part]root
i]theme
a
fal]root
a]theme
vamos  bat]root
i]theme
amos part]root
i]theme
amos
fal]root
a]theme
veis bat]root
i]theme
eis part]root
i]theme
eis
fal]root
a]theme
vaũ bat]root
i]theme
aũ part]root
i]theme
aũ
Indicative perfect
fal]root
e]theme
i bat]root
e]theme
i part]root
i]theme
i
fal]root
a]theme
ste bat]root
e]theme
ste part]root
i]theme
ste
fal]root
o]theme
u bat]root
e]theme
u part]root
i]theme
u
fal]root
a]theme
mos bat]root
e]theme
mos part]root
i]theme
mos
fal]root
a]theme
stes bat]root
e]theme
stes part]root
i]theme
stes
fal]root
a]theme
raũ bat]root
e]theme
raũ part]root
i]theme
raũ
Indicative pluperfect
fal]root
a]theme
ra bat]root
e]theme
ra part]root
i]theme
ra
fal]root
a]theme
ras bat]root
e]theme
ras part]root
i]theme
ras
fal]root
a]theme
ra bat]root
e]theme
ra part]root
i]theme
ra
fal]root
a]theme
ramos bat]root
e]theme
ramos part]root
i]theme
ramos
fal]root
a]theme
reis bat]root
e]theme
reis part]root
i]theme
reis
fal]root
a]theme
raũ bat]root
e]theme
raũ part]root
i]theme
raũ
Subjunctive imperfect 
fal]root
a]theme
se bat]root
e]theme
se part]root
i]theme
se
fal]root
a]theme
ses bat]root
e]theme
ses part]root
i]theme
ses
fal]root
a]theme
se bat]root
e]theme
se part]root
i]theme
se
fal]root
a]theme
semos bat]root
e]theme
semos  part]root
i]theme
semos
fal]root
a]theme
seis bat]root
e]theme
seis part]root
i]theme
seis
fal]root
a]theme
seĩ bat]root
e]theme
seĩ part]root
i]theme
seĩ
Future tense forms are stressed on the syllable containing the TAM morpheme.
(9)  X]theme
rV́ Y0
]future
Future tense forms are accented on the syllable containing the future (or conditional)
­
suffix (Wetzels, 2006: 41)
(10)  Stress in future tense or conditional forms
Indicative
fal]root
a]theme
rei bat]root
e]theme
rei part]root
i]theme
rei
fal]root
a]theme
ras bat]root
e]theme
ras part]root
i]theme
ras
fal]root
a]theme
ra bat]root
e]theme
ra part]root
i]theme
ra
fal]root
a]theme
remos bat]root
e]theme
remos part]root
i]theme
remos
fal]root
a]theme
reis bat]root
e]theme
reis part]root
i]theme
reis
fal]root
a]theme
raũ bat]root
e]theme
raũ part]root
i]theme
raũ
Conditional
fal]root
a]theme
ria bat]root
e]theme
ria part]root
i]theme
ria
fal]root
a]theme
rias bat]root
e]theme
rias part]root
i]theme
rias
fal]root
a]theme
ria bat]root
e]theme
ria part]root
i]theme
ria
fal]root
a]theme
riamos bat]root
e]theme
riamos part]root
i]theme
riamos
fal]root
a]theme
rieis bat]root
e]theme
rieis part]root
i]theme
rieis
fal]root
a]theme
riaũ bat]root
e]theme
riaũ part]root
i]theme
riaũ
Main Stress and Secondary Stress in Brazilian and European Portuguese  111
To account for stress in the present tense, a special rule is proposed for the forms of the 1pl
and 2pl, in which stress falls on the thematic vowel, different from the remaining verb forms,
which are stressed on the last vowel of the root. There are, then, two separate rules to account
for stress in the present tense:
(11)  a. special case XVC0
]root
V́]theme
]present 1,2pl
b. elsewhere case XV́C0
]root
Y]present
(12)  Stress in present tense forms
Present indicative
fal]root
o bat]root
o part]root
o
fal]root
as bat]root
es part]root
is
fal]root
a bat]root
e part]root
i
fal]root
amos bat]root
emos part]root
imos
fal]root
ais bat]root
eis part]root
is
fal]root
aũ bat]root
eĩ part]root
eĩ
Present subjunctive
fal]root
e bat]root
a part]root
a
fal]root
es bat]root
as part]root
as
fal]root
e bat]root
a part]root
a
fal]root
emos bat]root
amos part]root
amos
fal]root
eis bat]root
ais part]root
ais
fal]root
eĩ bat]root
aũ part]root
aũ
As was illustrated, in verbs the different stress patterns correspond with different tense
categories.
3.2.  Stress in non‐verbs
Stress in non‐verbs is predominantly prefinal in words ending in a vowel. When the word‐
final syllable ends in a diphthong or a syllable closed by a consonant, final stress is the
normal case.
(13)  pá.to “duck” fre.gués “customer”
ca.sá.co “jacket” po.már “orchard”
pós.te “pole” fu.níl “funnel”
as.fál.to “asphalt” re.fém “hostage”
Derived words usually comply with these generalizations, giving rise to alternations in the
location of stress between derived words and their base. Exceptions are bi‐moraic ­
suffixes
that are pre‐accenting, like –ico, or ‐vel, as in atléta “athlete” ~ atlético “athletic,” and
movér “move” ~ móvel “mobile,” or neoclassical compounds based on bound stems of
Greek or Latin origin (quilômetro “kilometer,” carnívoro “carnivorous,” etc.), which also can
­
combine with native words to create hybrid formations (camelódromo “place to shelter street
vendors,” sambódromo “sambadrome,” etc.). Furthermore, the plural suffix only rarely alters
the  position of the main stress as it appears in the corresponding singular form (pátos
“ducks,” freguéses “costumers,” pormáres “ochards,” funis “funnels,” etc). The words in (14a)
show alternating stress in words derived with derivational suffixes and their bases, whereas
112  José Magalhães
the words in (14b) show lack of alternation between the singular and the corresponding
plural forms.
(14)  a. belo beleza “beautiful” / “beauty”
bola bolada “ball” / “hit with a ball.”
topete topetudo “tuft” / “tufty”
inferno infernal “hell” / “infernal”
calor caloroso “heat” / “warm”
fuzil fuzilado “rifle” / “shot with a rifle”
b. bola bolas “ball” / “balls”
topete topetes “tuft” / “tufts”
infernal  infernais  “infernal” / “infernal‐pl”
calor calores “heat” / “heat waves”
Paroxytonic words ending in consonants, as well as words with antepenultimate stress are
generally classified as irregular. As for the latter stress pattern, there is one subclass of
proparoxytonic words that appears to be productive, which contains words that end in a
sequence of a high vowel followed by another vowel, such as mis.té.rio “mystery,” lín.gu.a
“tongue,” sá.bi.o “wise” (Magalhães 2004; Hermans and Wetzels 2012). Examples of irregular
prefinal stress are given in (15).
(15) lí.der “leader” hí.fen “hyphen”
ní.vel “level” jó.vem “young”
lá.pis “pencil” jó.quei “jockey”
The following words illustrate antepenultimate stress
(16) fô.le.go “breath”
ár.vo.re “tree”
fós.fo.ro “match”
Among the words with antepenultimate stress, examples with a branching rhyme in the
penultimate syllable are almost completely lacking. The few exceptions to this generaliza-
tion are either of foreign origin or are rarely used. In popular variants, these words are often
modified to fit the regular pattern, at least in BP. For example, relatively frequent words such
as recorde “record,” or pênalti “penalty” are pronounced by many as [xe.kɔ́r] or [xe.kɔ́r.dʒɪ]
and [pe.náw]. Moreover, while words with a prefinal falling diphthong such as ca.déi.ra
“chair,” di.no.ssáu.ro “dinosaur,” te.sóu.ro “treasure,” etc., represent a frequent word pattern
in Portuguese, words of the type *có.pei.ro,* di.nó.ssau.ro, *té.sou.ro, with stress on the syllable
preceding a prefinal falling diphthong, do not exist.
Proparoxytonic words with a final branching rhyme are also rare, limited to items such as
Lú.ci.fer “Lucifer,” jú.ni.or “junior,” jú.pi.ter “Jupiter,” sí.fi.lis “syphilis,” and ín.te.rim
“interim.” Proper nouns, such as Washington and William are normally pronounced without
the last consonant: [uɔ́.ʃɪ.tʊ] and [u.í.lja], respectively. In other borrowings with antepenulti-
mate stress in the source language, stress often falls on one of the two final syllables in
Portuguese: Manchester [mã.ʃɛ́s.tex], Rotterdam [xo.tex.dã́]. This way of integrating borrowed
words supports the view that the proparoxytonic pattern is marked in Portuguese.
Main Stress and Secondary Stress in Brazilian and European Portuguese  113
In addition to the exceptional patterns considered so far, there is a significant number of
words with stress on a final open syllable:
(17) fu.bá “corn meal”
ca.fé “coffee”
a.ba.ca.xí “pineapple”
a.vó “grandmother”
u.ru.bú “vulture”
Most words with stress on a final open syllable are borrowed from other romance languages,
especially French and English, from African languages brought into Brazil during colonial
times, as well as from indigenous languages, especially Tupi.
4.  The formal modeling of primary stress
In defense of the claim that Portuguese stress is sensitive to the weight of the word‐final
­
syllable, Bisol (1992/2013) points out that 78 percent of non‐verbs ending in a consonant
have word‐final stress. To this statistical argument one may add the fact that newly created
words, such as acronyms, proper names, and brand names for new industrial products
which end in a consonant almost exceptionally receive final stress. The following examples
are from a survey by Hermans and Wetzels (2012):
(18) a.  Acronyms b.  Proper names c.  Brand names (pharmaceutics)
JOˈCUM Froˈin Aroˈtin
FEˈBEM Jurupiˈtan Fenaˈren
FUˈNAI Harpaˈlus Deˈpress
SUˈSAU Yoˈpros Dorˈless
BEˈNES Naˈbor Efeˈxor
REIˈPLAS Hepilaˈzir Pameˈlor
UˈFIR Zarifebarˈbar Beseˈrol
PROˈER Baruˈel Traˈmal
VARˈSUL Idelaˈzil Leˈgil
ANˈPOL Avoˈal Paxˈtrat(i)
FAˈPESP([i]) Galenoˈgal Mirˈtax(i)
VALˈMET([i]) Franˈcel Nisuˈlid(i)
To account for the surface representation of the irregular patterns, Bisol (1992/2013, 1994)
postulates consonant and syllable extrametricality, which renders the final consonant of par-
oxytones and the final syllable of proparoxytones invisible to the stress algorithm. Since
words that are lexically marked for extrametrical consonants or syllables are subjected to the
general stress rules, they are stressed on the last syllable of the “metrical” sequence if that
syllable is heavy, otherwise on the prefinal syllable. Lexical extrametrical elements are exclu-
sively allowed in the periphery of the stress domain. It is canceled in lexical items to which
suffixes are added in the process of word formation. As is shown by the words in (19), when
derivational suffixes are added to a base with exceptional stress, the derived forms follow
the regular stress pattern.
114  José Magalhães
(19)  a. móve<l> – moveleiro “furniture” / “furnisher”
líde<r> – liderança “leader” / “leadership”
açúca<r> – açucarado “sugar” / “sugary”
árvo<re> – arvoredo “tree” / “grove”
músi<k> – musical “music” / “musical”
b. móve<l> – móveis “furniture” / “furniture‐pl”
líde<r> – líderes “leader” / “leader‐pl”
açúca<r> – açúcares “sugar” / “sugar‐pl”
júnio<r> – juniores “junior” / “junior‐pl”
Bisol reacts to the problem of words stressed on a final open syllable by hypothesizing that
these end in an abstract consonant lexically (catalexis). This consonant shows up in derived
words with suffixes that are usually vowel‐initial, as shown in (20) below
(20)  pé > ped+al “foot” / “pedal”
café > cafez+al “coffee” / “coffee plantation”
chá > chal+eira “tea” / “tea kettle”
Also, the choice of the consonant‐initial allomorph of the diminutive suffix is considered by
Bisol as independent evidence for a final lexical consonant in these words: café “coffee,”
jacaré “cayman,” garí “street‐sweeper,” etc. take –zinho instead of –inho as the diminutive
suffix, which is regular for words ending in a consonant: pomar > pomarzinho “orchard”/
“little orchard,” canal > canalzinho “canal” / “small canal,” and also café > cafezinho “coffee”/
“small cup of coffee,” jacaré > jacarezinho “cayman” / “small cayman,” gari > garizinho
“street‐sweeper” / “little street‐sweeper,” never *cafeinho,*jacareinho,*gariinho, etc. Similarly,
the diminutive form of vowel‐final monosyllables is derived with –zinho: pá+zinho “small
shovel,” nó+zinho “little knot,” nu+zinho “naked.”
Bisol (1992/2013, 1994), who adopts the framework developed by Halle and
Vergnaud  (1987), proposes the same mechanisms to account for stress in verbs and­
non‐verbs. The stress rules apply for all lexical categories at the level of the phonolog-
ical word.
In non‐verbs, the stress rule assigns an asterisk on line 1 for word‐final syllables ending in
a consonant, as in (21a). In words ending in a vowel, a left‐headed binary constituent is built
on the right word edge, as in (21b). To deal with irregular stresses, lexical extrametricality
exempts final syllables (cf. 22a) or consonants (cf. 22b) from the metrical sequence, giving
rise to words with antepenultimate stress or with prefinal stress despite the presence of a
final heavy syllable.
(21)  Regular stress in non‐verbs
    (*)		  (*)        
(*)
a.  po.mar “orchard”  tro.féu “trophy”  co.ro.nel “colonel”
b. (*  .)         
(*    .)        (*  .)
ca.sa “house”   
pa.re.de “wall”  
bor.bo.le.ta “butterfly”
(22)  Irregular stress in non‐verbs
(*  .) (*    
.)
a.   fos.fo<ro> “match”  ar.vo<re> “tree”
b.  (*  .)	   (*  .)
u.ti <l> “useful”  vi.si.ve<l> “visible”
Main Stress and Secondary Stress in Brazilian and European Portuguese  115
Stress in verbs is derived in the same way as in non‐verbs. The difference is in the nature of
extrametricality, which is applied in verbs by a general rule, not idiosyncratically on a word
by word basis. Extrametricality in verbs affects the final syllable in the 1,2pl forms of the
indicative and subjunctive imperfect, as in (23a), as well as all the final consonants represent-
ing a suffix, as in (23b), where final 
/ 
s 
/ 
represents the 2sg suffix and 
/ 
N 
/ 
the nasal mora
that denotes the 3pl suffix.
(23)  Stress in verbs
a.  Subjunctive imperfect  b. Indicative imperfect
  (*    
.)     (*    .)
fa.la.sse<mos> fa.la.va.<mos> 1pl “talk” 
ba.te.sse<is> ba.ti. e <is> 2pl “hit”
c. Present Ind.  d. Present subj.  e. Infinitive 
(* 
 
.)        
(*   
.)        
(*)
fa.la<s>      
fa.le<N>    fa.lar “talk”
ba.te<s>  ba.te<N>    ba.ter “hit”
Some authors have criticized Bisol’s proposal for a number of reasons: for its abundant use of
extrametricality, for the assumed relevance of syllable weight, and for the unified way of
accounting for stress in verbs and non‐verbs. For example, Lee (1995), in line with Mateus (1983),
d’Andrade and Laks (1992), and Pereira (1999) argues that stress is not sensitive to the weight of
the syllable and is not assigned at the level of the phonological word. Lee’s alternative account
follows the model proposed by Hayes (1991) combined with the assumptions of Derivational
Lexical Phonology, which distinguishes between lexical and postlexical modules, and which
posits, within the lexical component, different levels for the interaction between morphology and
phonology. Lee distinguishes two lexical levels: on the first level, which he calls the α level, deri-
vational morphology takes place, on the second level, the β level, inflection is accounted for.
(24)  Stress rules for non‐verbs: α level (derivational root)
a. Parameter settings for regular stress: foot binarity, foot is right‐headed, right to left
footing, non‐iterative footing (cf. a).
b. Parameter settings for irregular stress: foot binarity, foot is left‐headed, right to left
footing, non‐iterative footing (cf. b).
Stress is assigned to the derivational root. Words with irregular stress are lexically marked
for the applicable parametrical choices.
(25) a. [almoç]o “lunch” [kafɛ] “coffee” [abobor]a “pumpkin”
(.   
*)  (. *)   ––– (24a)
___  ____   (*   
.) (24b)
In normal derivation, stress assigned at a previous cycle is erased, as in
brasíl/brasiléiro “Brazil”/“Brazilian.”
b. 1st cycle [brazil] Prosodic Constituent Formation (PCF)
[brazíl] Stress Rule
2nd cycle [brazil] eir] o  Suffixation and PCF
[brazíleir] o Stress Erasure Convention
[braziléir] o Stress Rule
116  José Magalhães
Since plural formation takes place at level β, at which non‐verbal stress is no longer active, it
is predicted that pluralization does not interfere with the stress determined at level α.
For verbs, the stress rules apply at level β, which is also the level at which verbal
inflectional suffixes are added.
(26)  Stress rules for verbs: β level (word)
a. Parameter settings for regular stress: foot binarity, foot is leftheaded, right to left
footing, non‐iterative footing.
b. Parameter settings for irregular stress: foot binarity, foot is rightheaded, right to left
footing, non‐iterative footing.
/computo/ “compute” /falamos/ “talk” /batera/ “hit”
  (* 
.)         (*      
.)        
–––      
(26a)
   ___         
___        (. 
*)     
(26b)
Lee also admits a limited use of extrametricality, which is applied to the 1pl suffix ‐mos in the
imperfect, pluperfect and future conditional indicative, as well as in the past subjunctive.
(27) falava<mos> falaria<mos> falasse<mos>
  (* .)    (*  .)   (*    .)
While Lee’s proposal reduces considerably the resort to extrametricality, the overall description
of main stress increases in complexity.
As in Lee’s account, the relevance of syllable weight is denied in the interpretation of
Portuguese stress by Mateus (1983, 1990), Pereira (1999), and Mateus and d’Andrade (2000),
who propose a treatment conditioned by morphology for all lexical categories. Their
approach differs from Lee’s account with regard to the definition of the morphological con-
stituents that function as the domains for the stress rule. For non‐verbs, the domain is the
root, whereas for verbs it is the verbal theme.
Portuguese non‐verbs are traditionally divided in two classes, thematic and athematic.
Thematic nouns end in one of the theme vowels –a, ‐o, ‐e, adjectives in either –a or
–o, as in canet‐a “pen,” cab‐o “cable,” carn‐e “meat.” Athematic words lack a thematic
vowel and come in two types: words ending in a consonant gentil “friendly,” calor
“heat,” or in a stressed vowel: urubú “vulture,” guichê “information counter.” As we
have shown in Section  3.1, Portuguese verbs also come in three classes, a‐themes,
e‐themes, and i‐themes. With this in mind, consider the stress rules in (28), as proposed
by Mateus (1990: 355):
(28) In verbs, stress is on the last vowel of the theme
In non‐verbs, stress is on the last vowel of the root
The following examples illustrate the application of the rule:
(29)  Stress in Verbs
cant+á]theme
+r cant+á]theme
+va cant+á]theme
+va+mos “sing”
infinitive 3‐sg imperfect 1‐pl imperfect
comé]theme
+u comé]theme
+ra comé]theme
+ra+mos “eat”
3‐sg perfect 3‐sg pluperfect 3‐pl pluperfect
part+í]theme
+u part+í]theme
+sse part+í]theme
+r+mos “leave”
3‐sg perfect 1−/3‐sg past subjunctive 1‐pl future subjunctive
Main Stress and Secondary Stress in Brazilian and European Portuguese  117
(30) Non‐verbs
modél‐o “model”
escád‐a “stairs”
románc‐e “romance”
hospitál‐ø “hospital”
café‐ø “coffee”
pó‐ø “powder”
Since a considerable number of verb forms does not comply with the generalization that
stress is on the theme vowel, special rules are necessary to account for the exceptional forms,
which typically correspond with present and future tense forms, as illustrated in (31) for the
present tense with the verb falar “speak.”
(31) Present Ind. Present Subj. Imperative
a. 1‐sg fál‐o e.  fále
b. 2‐sg fála‐s f.   fále‐s i. fála
c. 3‐sg fála g. fále
d. 3‐pl fála‐m h. fále‐m
When the theme vowel does not appear in the surface form, as in (31a) and (31e‐h), when it
is word‐final (31c, 31i), or when it is followed by the person/number morpheme/+s/or/+m / (31b,
31d), stress is on the last vowel of the root. Stress is also exceptional in the 1/2pl of the
­
present subjunctive, in which forms stress is located on the vowel representing the TAM
morpheme.
(32) a. 1‐pl  falémos  compare with regular present indicative  falámos
b. 2‐pl faléis compare with regular present indicative faláis
For the future tense and conditional forms, the special rule proposed by Mateus is similar to
that one in Wetzels (2006) discussed in section 3.1.
As for the distribution of stress in verbs, the major difference between the proposal by
Mateus (1990) and the one by Wetzels (2006) is that in the latter account, stress on the theme
vowel is not considered the general rule, but one of three different rules that distribute stress
with reference to the tense categories present, past, and future. Indeed, in the verb forms in (31),
which are present tense forms, stress falls systematically on the last vowel of the root.
Turning to the non‐verbal lexical categories, in the account by Mateus (1990), consonant‐
final athematic nouns with prefinal stress are considered exceptional: útil “useful,” dólar
“dollar,” lápis “pencil,” etc. Proparoxytonic stress also cannot be accounted for: médico
­“physician,” abóbora “pumpkin,” fôlego “breath.” The same stress patterns are considered
exceptional in the weight‐based account. On the other hand, in the morphology‐based
analysis, words ending in a stressed vowel are classified as athematic and their final stress
is consequently accounted for by the general stress rule for non‐verbs. In the weight‐
based account vowel‐final words are predicted to have prefinal stress, which means that
café “coffee,” guichê “counter,” jacaré “cayman,” etc. must be listed as exceptions. This fact
is often interpreted as evidence for the morphological analysis of non‐verbal stress.
However, it remains to be seen whether the characterization of this word class as regular
is correct, especially since stress on word‐final open syllables rarely shows up in newly
created words.
118  José Magalhães
5.  The syllable weight controversy
Although a number of scholars have worked out a uniform cross‐categorical analysis of
Portuguese stress, there appears to be a growing consensus that there are differences in the
principles regulating the stress patterns of verbs and non‐verbs, with stress in verbs clearly
being conditioned by morphology. In the discussion so far, it has become evident that prob-
ably the most controversial issue in the definition of main stress in Portuguese concerns the
relevance of syllable weight for non‐verbs. We will therefore address this issue in some more
detail, assessing the arguments that are presented in the literature in favor and against the
role of syllable weight.
Among the arguments contesting the role of syllable weight in the phonology of
Portuguese, some are typological, such as the claim attributed by many to Trubetzkoy
(1939/1969) according to which only languages with contrastive vowel length can have a
quantity‐sensitive stress system. Mateus and d’Andrade (2000: 118) directly refer to this
allegedly universal law, stating:
if some phonologists wish to consider an alternation between long and short vowels, they
must recognize that, when a vowel is long, then it is systematically stressed. Therefore,
there is general agreement that duration is a by‐product of stressing. If so, length cannot be
assigned the role of an explanatory principle of stress location.
In other words, vowel length in Portuguese is phonetic, not phonological, and therefore this
language cannot have a weight‐sensitive stress system. However, Wetzels (2003, 2006)
­
presents empirical data from various languages which have a stress rule referring to the dis-
tinction between branching and non‐branching rhymes without the presence in their vowel
system of a length contrast, thereby refuting the validity of the above‐mentioned law, which
he moreover attributes not to Trubetzkoy, but to the Polish linguist Kurylowicz (Wetzels,
2006: 3). In the same study, Wetzels shows that a further claim made by Mateus and
d’Andrade (2000:117) according to which, as a general rule, languages reject the differential
treatment of verbs and non‐verbs for the sake of stress allocation is not supported by cross‐
linguistic evidence either.
Some arguments against the relevance of syllable weight refer to the history of the lan-
guage. Here, the claim is that what looks like a synchronic generalization is in reality the
effect of some specific historical change, which has given rise to a regular pattern that is not
as such part of the internalized grammar of the native speakers of Modern Portuguese. One
such generalization concerns the fact that proparoxytonic stress is not attested in words with
a prefinal branching rhyme: cadéira “chair” (*cádeira), lâmpada “light bulb” (*lámpanda).
As it appears, the prefinal heavy syllable acts as a barrier for the stress rule, which cannot
reach the penultimate syllable. Opponents to the weight sensitivity hypothesis argue that the
reason why stress cannot be antepenultimate in such words must be sought in the Latin
ancestor of Portuguese (Pereira 1999; Mateus and d’Andrade 2000). In Latin, the penultimate
syllable systematically bears the accent if it is heavy.2
Since the penultimate heavy syllable
blocked the emergence of proparoxytonic words in Latin, this stress pattern could only exist
in words with a light penult.
As was pointed out earlier, words with antepenultimate stress were in decline towards
the thirteenth century (Williams, 1975; Câmara 1976; Collishonn 2005; Massini‐Cagliari,
1999). However, many new proparoxytones were directly borrowed from Latin after this
date. Consequently, the proparoxytonic stress pattern which was reintroduced into the lan-
guage was again typical for words with a prefinal light syllable. This being the case, and
given that all productive generalizations have their history, the question remains whether or
Main Stress and Secondary Stress in Brazilian and European Portuguese  119
not speakers of Portuguese are capable of grasping the condition that the antepenultimate
stress type is restricted to words with the given characteristic. That this probably is the case can
be concluded from the way in which proparoxytonic proper nouns, especially toponymes
from foreign origin, are borrowed into Portuguese by shifting their stress to the right (see
Section 3.1 for examples and discussion).
Independently of the question of the syllable make up of proparoxytonic words, studies
by Fernandes (2007) for EP, and Aguilera (2008) for BP, show that there is a tendency, espe-
cially in popular variants, for this stress pattern to be eliminated through syncope. The mark-
edness of antepenultimate stress is often seen as a causal factor for the elimination of this
pattern in both EP and BP. Most typically, proparoxytones are realized as paroxytones in
everyday speech through the deletion of the vowel following the stressed syllable. The
­
following examples are illustrative of this process:
(33) Syncope in proparoxytonic words
árvore  [áɣ.vo.rɪ] > [áɣ.vrɪ]	 ~	 [áx.vɪ] “tree”
fósforo    [fɔ́s.fo.rʊ] > [fɔ́s.frʊ]	 ~	 [fɔ́.fʊ] “match”
abóbora [a.bɔ́.bo.rɐ] > [a.bɔ́.brɐ]	 ~	 [a.bɔ́.bɐ]  “pumpkin”
pássaro  [pá.sa.ɾʊ] > [pá.sʊ] “bird”
cócegas  [kɔ́.se.ɡɐs] > [kɔ́s.kɐs]3
“tickle”
música  [mú.zi.kɐ] > [múz.ɡɐ] “music”
More evidence for the quantity sensitivity hypothesis for Portuguese stress comes from the
observation that there are no proparoxytonic words in which the onset of the last syllable is
a palatal sonorant or a velar fricative (or uvular vibrant in EP), as in the examples below:
(34)  abelha [a.bé.ʎɐ] cf. *[á.be.ʎɐ] “bee”
desenho [de.zẽ́.ɲʊ] cf. *[dé.zẽ.ɲʊ]  “design”
cachorro [ka.ʃó.xʊ] ~ [ka.ʃó.rʊ] cf.  *[ká.ʃo.xʊ] “dog”
In the case of the velar fricative or uvular vibrant, usually referred to as “strong R,” Câmara
(1953) analyses this segment as a phonological geminate in intervocalic position. On the
other hand, Wetzels (2006) provides a number of arguments which lead him to conclude that
palatal sonorants add weight to the preceding syllable: the non‐existence of complex rhymes
before palatal sonorants, the creation of a prosthetic vowel in loans from Indigenous lan-
guages or from other Romance languages that begin with a palatal sonorant, the non‐
existence of palatal sonorants word‐finally, the obligatory bisyllabic syllabification of
V+highV sequences before palatal sonorants (cf. raínha “queen,” faúlha “spark”), among
others. Obviously, the hypothesis that “strong R” and palatal sonorants add weight to the
preceding syllable predicts that the prefinal syllable in words with a palatal sonorant in
the onset of the final syllable acts as heavy, which fact explains at the same time why stress
in the antepenultimate syllable cannot occur.4
6.  Stress in compounds
The stress pattern of compounds is identical for EP and BP. Each element of the compound
receives its own main stress, of which the final stress is the most prominent, as shown by
Collischonn (1993) and Lee (1995) for BP and by Vigário (2003) for EP. The same pattern
extends to the adverbs derived with the –mente suffix as well as words derived by the group
of so‐called z‐evaluative suffixes ‐zinho, ‐zito, which behave as independent prosodic words.
In cases of stress clash, the left stress is shifted or erased.
120  José Magalhães
(35)  guárda + chúva > guàrda‐chúva “umbrella”
ítalo + brasiléiro  >  ìtalo‐brasiléiro  “Italian Brazilian”
marróm‐cláro > màrron‐cláro “light brown”
médico‐chéfe > médico‐chéfe “chief physician”
cérta‐ménte > cèrtaménte “surely”
café + zínho > càfezínho “small cup of coffee”
iguál‐ménte > ìgualménte “likewise”
7.  Secondary stress
While the location of primary stress in BP and EP shows no significant differences, the
properties of secondary stress are less clear, especially in the European variety, for which
some disagreement exists about its precise nature, at the word level and above. The fol-
lowing characteristics are shared by EP and BP: 1) the domain for secondary stress is the
sequence of syllables to the left of the primary stress, 2) secondary stress is insensitive to
the internal morphological structure of words, and 3) secondary stress is variable, as
shown by Collischonn (1993, 1994).
Collischonn (1993, 1994) describes secondary stress in BP in a number of word types:
non‐derived words, words derived by suffixes, words derived by prefixes, and compounds.
The author convincingly shows that for all these word types secondary stress follows a
­
left‐headed binary rhythm, resulting from a right-to-left scansion of the string of pretonic
syllables. This alternating rhythm between strong and weak syllables is easily identified in
words with an even number of pretonic syllables (secondary stresses are underlined):
(36) cò.li.brí “humming‐bird”
prò.ba.bì.li.dá.de “probability”
ìr.res.pòn.sa.bì.li.dá.de  “irresponsibility”
In words with an uneven number of pretonic syllables, the place of the secondary stress is
variable. One option consists in building a dactyl at the beginning of the word, followed by
alternating stresses, if applicable. The other option is the right‐to‐left scansion with the
word‐initial syllable remaining stressless.
(37) tèm.pe.ra.tú.ra tem.pè.ra.tú.ra “temperature”
ìn.co.mu.nì.ca.bì.li.dá.de in.cò.mu.nì.ca.bì.li.dá.de “incommunicability”
A lapse of two unstressed syllables can only occur after the word‐initial stress, which means
that patterns like *ìn.co.mù.ni.cà.bi.li.dá.de are ungrammatical. Another factor which, in BP,
contributes to the binary rhythm is the frequent erasure of one of the pretonic vowels in
words with an uneven number of syllables preceding the main stress, although the same
phenomenon has also been observed in words with an even number of syllables to the left of
the primary stress (Abaurre et al., 2006).
(38)  sà.tis.fa.tó.ria > sàts.fa.tó.ria “satisfactory”
mò.der.ní.za.ção > mò.dern.za. çã ́o “modernization”
In an instrumental analysis of secondary stress in BP, Moraes (2003) shows that there is a
preference in current speech for a single secondary stress per word, which is on the initial
syllable. Moraes constructs two different sentence frames in which words of varying length
Main Stress and Secondary Stress in Brazilian and European Portuguese  121
are inserted, such as regular “regular,” regularizo “I regularize,” regularizar “regularize,”
regularização “regularization” (Moraes 2003:149). In one frame, these words appear at the
edge of the intonational phrase I, the “strong” context, in which position phrasal stress occurs.
In the other frame, the same words are positioned in a weak position inside the intonational
phrase, as illustrated below (Moraes 2003: 150):
(39)  [Ele disse_________]I [de novo]I (strong context)  “He said ____ again”
[Ele disse_________ hoje]I [de novo]I  (weak context) “He said:___ today again”
Moraes’ findings reveal a tendency towards a single secondary stress in words with two to
five pretonic syllables: règulár, règularízo, règularizár, règularizaçã ́o. However, the author
also found secondary stresses alternating with unstressed syllables throughout the word.
Another important outcome of Moraes’ experiment is that the prosodic (weak vs. strong)
position in the carrier sentence had no influence on the secondary stress patterns observed
for the set of words that were used in the test.
Secondary stress in BP is variable, somewhat different for words pronounced in isolation
or when part of longer sequences in current speech, but have in common the possibility of a
word‐initial secondary stress varying with a binary rhythmic stress in the way reported
above. For EP, the characteristics of secondary stress are still subject to controversy among
specialists. D’Andrade and Viana (1989) established the existence of a binary rhythm in EP
with stress on every even syllable counting from the main stress, resulting in a pattern
equivalent to the one described by Collischonn (1993, 1994) for BP. The same conclusion was
reached in Pereira (1999) and in Castelo (2006). On the other hand, Carvalho (1988, 1989)
claims that secondary stress characteristically shows a ternary pattern, while Frota (1998)
and Vigário (1998) found that secondary stress is optional and, when it occurs, tends to be
unbounded.
In a more recent study of secondary stress in EP, Abaurre et al. (2006) challenge the binary
rhythm hypothesis for this language. In an experiment based on a corpus of 20 sentences,
read three times by three native speakers of EP, and by two native speakers of BP, these
authors conclude that, while BP mainly applies a binary rhythm, EP shows unbounded
footing. Another important result of this study, confirming similar findings by Frota and
Vigário (2000), is that function words may be integrated into the domain within which
secondary stress applies and may carry stress in EP. This possibility does not exist in BP,
where function words can only be stressed in emphatic pronunciation. The examples in (38)
taken from Abaurre et al. (2006), show the variation existing in the location of secondary
stress as found for EP:
(40)  ò investigadór ~ o ìnvestigadór “the investigator/masc”
à catalogadóra ~ a cátalogadóra  “the cataloguer/fem”
8. Conclusion
The position of main stress in BP and EP verbs and non‐verbs is identical, even though
scholars of both varieties have accounted for the facts in very different ways. While most
scholars agree that stress in verbs interacts with morphology, there is no consensus on
exactly how this interaction takes place. One trend is to mark flectional elements as extra-
metrical in those forms that escape what is considered the general rule, another one is to refer
directly to inflectional categories to determine the different stress locations in verb forms.
122  José Magalhães
Without doubt, the most controversial issue in the discussion of Portuguese stress
concerns the relevance of syllable weight for the distribution of stress in non‐verbs, which
globally divides scholars working on BP and EP in different camps. Possibly the two stress
systems do function differently, which fact could be related to other differences between the
two languages, such as their different rhythms. Frota and Vigário (2000) have shown that
some rhythmic measures distinguish EP from BP, with BP sharing properties with mora‐
timed languages like Japanese.
The problems related to establishing the principles that account for secondary stress are
of an empirical nature, maybe due to the difficulty of detecting secondary stresses, especially
in running speech, and to their variable and optional realization. There is agreement at least
with regard to the fact that there is more than one way in which secondary stress is mani-
fested in both varieties. It appears that, for BP, it is relatively clear how exactly secondary
stress may vary. In EP, this topic needs to be investigated further in order for a consensus to
be reached among scholars.
Notes
1	 I am grateful to Gisela Collischonn for comments. I especially thank Leo Wetzels for his comments
on an earlier draft of this chapter.
2	 See Chapter 6 on syllable structure for the Latin stress rule.
3	 In cases such as “cócegas” and “música,” the deletion of the non‐final post‐tonic vowel causes
progressive assimilation of the [+ / –voice] feature triggered by / s,z / (cf. Magalhães, 2014).
4	Other arguments to sustain the relevance of syllable weight in the phonology of Portuguese, not
related to the stress rules, are presented in Wetzels (2003, 2006). An interesting case presented by
the  author is a rule of “spondaic lowering,” by which a stressed mid‐vowel in the prefinal syl-
lable becomes lower mid, when the last syllable is heavy: móvel [mɔ́.vew] “piece of furniture,” elétron
[ɛ.lɛ́.trõ], “electron,” etc. See also Chapter 5.
References
Abaurre, M. B. M., F. Sandalo, A. Mandel, and C.
Galves (2006). Secondary stress in two
varieties of Portuguese and the Sotaq
optimality based computer program. Probus
18, pp. 97–125.
Aguilera, V. A. (2008). Arcaização, mudança e
resistência lexicais em atlas lingüísticos
brasileiros: o rural e o urbano. In Maria Inês
Pagliarini Cox (ed.), Que português é esse? Vozes
em conflito. Cuiabá: EdUFMT, pp. 83–98.
Araújo, G. A., Z. O. Guimaraes‐Filho, L. Oliveira,
and M. E. Viaro (2007). As proparoxítonas e o
sistema acentual do português. In G. A. Araújo
(ed.), O acento em português: abordagens
fonológicas. São Paulo: Parábola, pp. 37–60.
Bisol, L. (1994). O acento e o pé binário. Letras de
Hoje, 29, pp. 25–36.
Bisol, L. (1992/2013). O acento: duas alternativas
de análise. In Organon, vol. 28, no. 54. Porto
Alegre: UFRGS.
Camara Jr., J. M. (1953). Para o Estudo da Fonêmica
Portuguesa. Rio de Janeiro: Padrão.
Camara Jr., J. M. (1976). História e estrutura
da língua portuguesa. Rio de Janeiro:
Padrão.
Carvalho, J. B. (1988). Réduction vocalique,
quantité et accentuation: pour une explication
structurale de la divergence entre portugais
lusitanien et portugais brésilien. Boletim de
Filologia, 32, pp. 5–26.
Carvalho, J. B. (1989). Phonological conditions on
Portuguese clitic placement: On syntactic
evidence for stress and rhythmical patterns.
Linguistics, 27, pp. 405–436.
Main Stress and Secondary Stress in Brazilian and European Portuguese  123
Castelo, A. (2006). A proeminência secundária
rítmica no Português Europeu: uma proposta.
In XXI Encontro Nacional da Associação
Portuguesa de Linguística. Lisbon: APL,
pp. 261–272.
Collischonn, G. (1993). Um estudo do acento
secundário em português. Master
dissertation, Universidade Federal do Rio
Grande do Sul.
Collischonn, G. (1994). Acento secundário em
português brasileiro. Letras de Hoje, 29,
pp. 43–53.
Collischonn, G. (2005). O acento em português.
In L. Bisol (ed.), Introdução a Estudos de
Fonologia do Português Brasileiro. Porto Alegre:
EDIPUCRS, pp. 135–170.
d’Andrade, E. and B. Laks (1992). Na crista da
onda: o acento de palavra em português. In
Actas do IV Encontro Nacional da Associação
Portuguesa de Linguística. Lisbon: APL/Colibri,
pp. 15–26.
d’Andrade, E. and M. C. Viana (1989). Ainda
sobre o acento e o ritmo em português. In
Actas do IV Encontro Nacional da Associação
Portuguesa de Linguística. Lisbon: APL, pp.
3–15. Delgado Martins, M. R. (1986). Sept Etudes
Sur la Perception. Lisbon: Instituto Nacional de
Investigação Científica.
Fernandes, A. C. G. (2007). Apagamento de Vogais
Átonas em Trissílabos Proparoxítonos: um
Contributo para a Compreensão da Supressão
Vocálica em português Europeu. MA thesis,
Universidade do Porto.
Frota, S. (1998). Prosody and focus in European
Portuguese. Ph.D. dissertation, Universidade
de Lisboa.
Frota, S. and M. Vigário (2000). Aspectos de
prosódia comparada: ritmo e entoação no PE e
no PB. In R. V. Castro and P. Barbosa (eds.),
Actas do XV Encontro da Associação Portuguesa
de Linguística, Vol.1. Coimbra: APL, pp.
533–555.
Halle, M. and J. R. Vergnaud (1987). An Essay on
Stress. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Hayes, B. (1991). Metrical stress theory –
principles and case studies. Manuscript,
UCLA.
Hermans, B. and L. Wetzels (2012). Productive
and unproductive stress patterns in Brazilian
Portuguese. Revista Letras, 28, pp. 77–115.
Lee, S.‐H. (1995). Morfologia e Fonologia Lexical
do Português. Ph.D. dissertation, UNICAMP.
Magalhães, J. (2004). O Plano Multidimensional
do Acento na Teoria da Otimidade. MA thesis,
PUCRS.
Magalhães, J. (2008). The stress in non‐verbs in
Brazilian Portuguese in the multidimensional
metrical plane. In L. Bisol and C. R. Brescancini
(eds.), Contemporary Phonology in Brazil.
Newcastle: Cambridge Scholars Publishing,
pp. 22–53.
Major, R. C. (1981). Stress‐timing in Brazilian
Portuguese. Journal of Phonetics, 9,
pp. 343–351.
Massini‐Cagliari, G. (1992). Acento e ritmo. São
Paulo: Editora Contexto.
Massini‐Cagliari, G. (1994). Em busca dos
parâmetros do ritmo do Português Arcaico.
Letras de Hoje, 29 (4), pp. 101–112.
Massini‐Cagliari, G. (1995). Cantigas de amigo:
do ritmo poético ao lingüístico: um estudo do
percurso histórico da acentuação em
português. MA thesis, UNICAMP.
Massini‐Cagliari, G. (1999). Do poético ao
lingüístico no ritmo dos trovadores: três momentos
da história do acento. Araraquara: Cultura
Acadêmica.
Mateus, M. H. M. (1983). O acento de palavra em
português: uma nova proposta. Boletim de
Filologia, XXVIII (Lisbon), pp. 211–229.
Mateus, M. H. M. (1990). Fonética, Fonologia e
Morfologia do Português. Lisbon: Universidade
Aberta.
Mateus, M. H. M. and E.d’Andrade (2000). The
Phonology of Portuguese. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Moraes, J. A. (2003). Secondary stress in Brazilian
Portuguese: perceptual and acoustical
evidence. Proceedings of the 15th ICPhS,
Barcelona, Spain, pp. 2063–2066.
Nunes, J. J. (1975). Compêndio de Gramática
Histórica Portuguesa: Fonética e Morfologia, 8th
edn. Lisbon: Livraria Clássica Editora.
Pereira, I. (1999). O acento de palavra em Português –
uma análise métrica. MA thesis,
Universidade de Coimbra.
Trubetzkoy, N. (1939/1969). Principles of
Phonology. Translated by C. A. Baltaxe.
Berkeley, CA: University of
California Press.
Vasconcélloz, A. G. R. de. (1900). Grammática
Histórica da Língua Portuguesa. Paris:
Typ. Aillaud, Alves ét Cia.
Vigário, M. (1998). Cliticização no português
europeu: uma operação pós‐lexical. XIV
National Meeting of the Portuguese National
Association of Linguistics, Aveiro,
Portugal.
Vigário, M. (2003). The Prosodic Word in European
Portuguese. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
124  José Magalhães
Wetzels, W. L. (2003). On the weight issue in
Portuguese: A typological investigation. Letras
de Hoje, 134, pp. 107–133.
Wetzels, W. L. (2006). Primary word stress in
Brazilian Portuguese and the weight
parameter. Journal of Portuguese Linguistics,
5/6, pp. 59–90.
Williams, E. B. (1975). From Latin to Portuguese.
Historical Phonology and Morphology of the
Portuguese Language, 3rd edn. Translated by
Antônio Houaiss from Do Latim ao
Português. Fonologia e Morfologia Históricas da
Língua Portuguesa. Rio de Janeiro: Tempo
Brasileiro.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
Since the early 1970s it has been acknowledged that (1) phonological phenomena often apply
with reference to domains that do not necessarily coincide with morphological or syntactic
constituents, and (2) the interaction between the phonological and syntactic components is
limited and principled. These observations have led to the construction of the theory of
Prosodic Phonology (Selkirk 1984, Nespor and Vogel 1986). This chapter provides an over-
view of the work on prosodic phonology and the syntax–phonology interface in Brazilian
and European Portuguese (BP and EP, respectively). Section 2 focuses on the evidence avail-
able for prosodic domains above the foot‐level. The construction of prosodic domains and
the interaction between phonology and other components of the grammar are surveyed in
Section 3. We conclude in Section 4 with some final remarks.
2.  Evidence for prosodic structure from Portuguese
In this section we review some of the phonological evidence for prosodic constituents in
Portuguese, a topic that has received great attention since the seminal work by Bisol (1992)
on BP and Frota (1995) on EP, both of which articulated within the framework of Prosodic
Phonology developed in Nespor and Vogel (1986). As phonologists disagree on whether the
lowest prosodic domain that interacts with syntax is the clitic group or the (post‐lexical)
­
prosodic word, we start looking at the available evidence for the prosodic word level in both
varieties of Portuguese (Section 2.1) and discuss the prosodic status of clitics and the internal
prosodic structure of compounds (Section 2.2). We then consider the phonological properties
of higher levels of the prosodic hierarchy, namely, the phonological phrase (Section 2.3) and
the intonational phrase (Section 2.4).
2.1.  The prosodic word
Early insights regarding the distinction between morphosyntactic and prosodic words may
be traced back to Morais Barbosa (1965) and Mattoso Câmara (1972). Acknowledging the
mismatch between these two types of grammatical constructs, recent work has mainly
focused on (1) identifying phonological diagnostics for the prosodic word (henceforth, PW)
The Phonology–Syntax Interface
Raquel S. Santos and Marina Vigário1
8
126  Raquel S. Santos and Marina Vigário
and (2) defining the prosodic organization of morphosyntactic units at this level. In this
­
subsection we will focus on the former.
In both varieties of Portuguese, the presence of word stress and the (non‐)application of
phonological rules that are sensitive to it provide the major cues for the identification of the
PW.2
Examples include various processes that target unstressed vowels, such as neutraliza-
tions in BP involving pretonic (/ɛ/ > [e]; /ɔ/ > [o]; cf. (1a)) and post‐tonic final vowels (/e/ >
[i]; /o/ > [u]), the so‐called process of vowel reduction in EP (/e, ɛ/ > [ɨ]; /o, ɔ/ > [u]; /a/ >
[ɐ]; cf. (1b)), and the optional processes of prevocalic glide formation (cf. (1c)) and vowel
deletion to break a hiatus in both varieties.3
(1)  a. p[o]rteira
(porteira)PW
“gate”      
 
vs. p[ɔ́]rta (porta)PW
“door”
(BP)
b. p[u]rteira
(porteira)PW
“door keeperfem
”    vs. p[ɔ́]rta (porta)PW
“door”
(EP)
c. ad[j]ar
(adiar) PW
“to delay”     
vs. ad[í]o (adio) PW
“(I) delay”
(EP, BP)
Both varieties also have a number of assimilation rules that are circumscribed to the PW, as
illustrated in (2). These include vowel harmony (cf. (2a)) and nasalization of vowels pre-
ceding a nasal onset consonant in BP (this process occurs in all dialects if the target vowel is
stressed, as in (2b), and in some dialects also if it is unstressed, as in the first syllable of
banana (2b)); stressless e‐deletion in EP, which is (almost) obligatory in PW final position
(cf. (2c)); and the optional processes of vowel deletion (cf. (2d)), glide formation (cf. (2e)), and
syllable degemination (cf. (2f)) at the right edge of the PW in both varieties.
(2) a. p[e]PIno ~ p[i]PIno “cucumber”
b. baN[ɐ̃]na ~ b[ɐ̃]N[ɐ̃]na *baN[á]na “banana” vs. *VEl[ɐ̃] NOva “new candle” and
*RApid[ɐ̃]MENte (rapida)PW
(mente)PW
“rapidly”
c. bebe água > beb água    “(he) drinks water”
d. bela organização (bela)PW
(organização)PW
> bel[o]rganização “nice organization” and
ultra‐ocupado (ultra)PW
(ocupado)PW
> ultr[o]cupado “extra busy” vs. maometano
>*m[o]metano “Mohammedan”
e. iogurte  > [j]ogurte  “yogurt”
f. gato temeroso > ga temeroso “scared cat”
Nonsegmental phenomena may also cue the PW.4
Prominence related phenomena such as
initial stress, emphatic stress, and pitch accent, for instance, signal the presence of PW, as initial
and emphatic stress are assigned to PW initial syllables and, at least in EP, pitch accents can only
be associated with syllables bearing primary word stress. Furthermore, some ­deletion processes,
such as deletion under identity (as we will see in Section 3.5) and word clipping or truncation in
EP target the prosodic word. For example, in this variety clipping consists of the deletion of a
PW and thus cannot target only part of a PW, as illustrated by the contrast in (3) below.5
(3) a. TEleMÓvel (tele)PW
(móvel)PW
> móvel “mobile phone”
b. teleFOne (telefone)PW
        > *fone, *tele “telephone”
Finally, there are several phonotactic restrictions that apply to PWs in both varieties. For
example, no PW starts in [ɾ, ɲ, ʎ], while these segments may be syllable initial inside words,
as in a[ɾ]a[ɾ]a arara “macaw,” se[ɲ]or senhor “sir,” ca[ʎ]a calha “roof rack”).
The Phonology–Syntax Interface  127
2.2.  Clitic–host combinations and compound‐like groupings
As in many other languages, a number of functional words in Portuguese do not bear word
stress. Which words are clitics and which ones have the status of PWs is to a certain extent
language‐specific. Processes that apply in unstressed environments in Portuguese, such as
stressless vowel neutralization, glide formation, and deletion, as well as violations of pho-
notactic restrictions imposed on PWs (cf. (4)), show that weak personal pronouns, many
monosyllabic prepositions and complementizers, and definite articles are clitics (Bisol 2000,
Vigário 2003).
(4) p[u]r tela “by screen”	 vs. p[o]rtela  “Portela (proper name)” (BP)
de [dɨ]~ [d], da [dɐ] “of,” “of + thefem
”	 vs. dê [dé], dá [dá] “giveimp.
,” “givepres.
3p ‐sg”     (EP)
no alto [nua]~[nwa] “in themasc
high”	 vs. nu artístico [nua]/*[nwa] “artistic nude”  (BP, EP)
lhe [ʎɨ]  pronoun DAT-3p‐sg	 vs. *lhado	 non‐word (BP, EP)
Clitics display specific phonological behavior in each variety of Portuguese, depending on
the particular prosodic organization they establish with their hosts, which depends on their
position relative to the host (this issue is adressed in Section 3).
Unlike simplex words and most morphologically complex words, transparent com-
pounds, and some derived words are formed by more than one PW. The PW status of the
internal components of the latter category of words is shown, among other facts, by their
behavior with respect to processes that refer to the PW domain, such as word stress (cf.
(5a)), the impossibility for glide formation to affect stressed vowels (cf. (5b)), deletion
under identity (cf. (5c)), or resyllabification (cf. (5d)) (data from Bisol 2000, Schwindt 2000,
and Vigário 2003).
(5) a. PÓS‐acentuAL “post‐stressed,” agraDAvelMENte “pleasantly,” PORta‐banDEIras
“flag‐bearer,” FMI (Efe‐Eme‐I) “IMF”
vs. posPÔR “postpone,” visionaMENto “viewing,” portaGEIro “toll collector,”
efemiNAdo6
“effeminate”
b. b[í]‐anuAL “biannual,” b[í]o‐degraDÁvel “biodegradable”
vs. r[i]organizar or r[j]organizar “to reorganize,” b[i]ologia or b[j]ologia “biology”
c. aLEgreMENte ou TRIsteMENte> aLEgre ou TRIsteMENte “happily or sadly”
d. sub+locar [sub.lo]car ~ [su.bi.lo]car (BP) *[su.blo]car “sublease”
vs. sublime [su.bli]me * [sub.li]me *[su.bi.li]me “sublime”
Depending on the intrinsic properties of the morphemes or words involved and the type of
morphosyntactic construction they integrate, compound‐like internal elements may behave
phonologically in different ways. The prosodic organization displayed by this sort of words
when formed by more than one PW is discussed in Section 3.
2.3.  The phonological phrase
The phonological phrase (PhP) is the next higher level in the prosodic hierarchy. Like other
domains, PhP also has a prominent element, which in neutral utterances corresponds to its
rightmost PW. Both stress clash resolution phenomena and tone distribution are constrained
by PhP‐level prominence. For example, optional vowel deletion processes across words may
be blocked under certain stress conditions, as illustrated in (6), taken from Frota (2000). In
128  Raquel S. Santos and Marina Vigário
(6a) deletion is not possible because V2 bears PhP prominence.As for (6b), deletion is ­possible
because although V2 has word‐level stress, it is not the head of its PhP. Similar data are avail-
able for BP as well, as illustrated in (7) (from Bisol 2003).
(6) a. O dançaRIno Ama a bailarina russa *
dançarin[a]ma
“The dancer loves the Russian chorus girl”
b. O bailaRIno ANda sempre de limousine
preta
OK
bailarin[an]da
“The dancer always drives a black limousine”
(7) a. ele masTIga Ervas *mastig[εr]vas
“He chews herbs”
b. ele masTIga Ervas amargas OK
mastig[εr]vas
“He chews bitter herbs”
Vowel deletion and semivocalization are affected by stress clash configurations, although
the specific strategy employed to resolve stress clashes varies depending on the prosodic
configuration and the language variety (Tenani 2002). According to Frota (2000), in EP,
when the clashing sequence is part of the same PhP, the first syllable of the clashing pair is
lengthened (cf. (8a)), but there is no lengthening when a PhP boundary intervenes between
the clashing syllables (cf. (8b)).
(8) a. (O caFÉː LUso)ϕ contém cevada de boa qualidade
“The Lusitanian coffee contains barley of good quality”
b. (O caFÉ)ϕ (LUta)ϕ pelo prémio do produto mais qualificado
“The coffee contends for the award for the best product”
In BP, different prosodic domains also show different means to resolve internal stress clashes.
Within the PhP, (optional) stress shift is applied, as in (9a) vs. (9b) (Abousalah 1997). When
the stress clash occurs between PhPs, as in (9b), one clash‐avoiding strategy consists in
inserting a pause between the clashing syllables (Gravina and Fernandes‐Svartman 2013).7
The fact that stress shift is the preferred option not only in sentences such as (9a), but also in
(9c), where the adjective follows the nominal head, provides evidence for the possibility of
reestructuring non‐branching phonological phrases with the ­
preceding PhP in this variety.
(9) a. (dezeSSEIS HOmens)ϕ DEzesseis HOmens  “sixteen men”
b. (o daVI)ϕ (GOSta)ϕ * o DAvi GOSta    “Davi likes”
c. (caFÉ)ϕ (QUENte)ϕ CAfé QUENte    “hot coffee”
The different strategies employed to resolve clashes reflect different prosodic mappings for
the clashing stressed syllables. For instance, since optional stress shift only takes place within
PhPs in BP, it always prompts the reading in (10a) below. By contrast, the insertion of a pause
or the association of a pitch accent with each word involved in the clash prompts the reading
given in (10b), as these are processes that apply between PhPs (Gravina and Fernandes‐
Svartman, 2013; example taken from Guimarães, 1998).
(10)  o professor de balé russo  “The Russian ballet teacher”
a.  Russian ballet:    (o professor)ϕ (de baLÉ RUsso)ϕ BAlé RUsso   ~ baLÉ RUsso
b. Russian teacher:  (o professor de baLÉ)ϕ (RUsso)ϕ *BAlé RUsso
The Phonology–Syntax Interface  129
Tonal marking also makes reference to PhP in both varieties, although in different ways. In
BP, a phrasal accent (L‐) optionally marks a PhP boundary after a focalized element
(Fernandes 2007). In EP, pitch accents are optional in non‐nuclear positions and when they
occur in this position, they are usually only associated with the prominent element of the
PhP (Frota 2014).
2.4.  The intonational phrase
The intonational phrase (IP) defines the domain of intonational contours (minimally formed
by a nuclear pitch accent and a boundary tone) and of final lengthening, and constitutes the
loci for pause insertion (see Chapter 9, this volume). Like all other levels mentioned in this
chapter, IP neutral prominence is rightmost, a fact that is corroborated by the obligatory
presence of a pitch accent associated with the head of the IP, the final PhP, as well as stress
clash effects on vowel hiatus resolution (Frota 2000, Tenani 2002).
The IP is also the domain of an array of sandhi phenomena involving resyllabification
in both varieties of Portuguese. These include optional word-final deletion, vowel
degemination8
, and prevocalic gliding as ways of breaking a hiatus, syllable‐final frica-
tive voicing, and syllable degemination (cf. (11a-e), respectively) (Bisol 1992, et seq.,
Tenani 2002, for BP; Frota 2000, for EP).
(11)  a.  belo amigo “great friend, masc”
b. bel[a]miga “great friend, fem”
c. bel[w]amigo “great friend, masc”
d. boa[z] avaliações “good marks”
e. A gente tocou. “people played”
Besides their different sensitivity to stress clash configurations, EP and BP differ with regard
to the domain of sandhi phenomena and resyllabification.9
While in EP the domain is clearly
the IP (Frota 2014), in BP it appears that these phenomena are prosodically unbound.
The example in (12) below, taken from Tenani (2002), illustrates diphtongation and resyl-
labification across semantically unrelated utterances in BP, which are not allowed in EP.
(12)  O Pedro comprou pêssego. Alegaram falta de provas. >> pesseg[wa]legaram
“Pedro bought peaches. (They) alleged lack of proofs.”
3.  Construction of prosodic domains and the
syntax–phonology interface
Within Prosodic Phonology, domains at the PW‐level and above are built with reference
to syntactic information. Nevertheless, it is generally assumed that phonological
domains are distinct from syntactic ones in a number of fundamental ways: they are
composed of a limited number of constituents that occupy a fixed position within a
­
prosodic hierarchy and are organized in a way such that higher domains always contain
one or more domains of the immediate lower level (except for the syllable). The organi-
zational principles which account for the wellformedness of prosodic trees are known
as the Strict Layer Hypothesis (Nespor and Vogel 1986; Selkirk 1996). Work on Portuguese
phonology provides strong evidence for this type of prosodic organization. Nevertheless,
a number of questions regarding the ­
precise interaction between phonology and other
130  Raquel S. Santos and Marina Vigário
components of the grammar remain controversial: To what extent is syntactic structure
relevant for the specific organization of word and sentence prosody? What are the phono-
logical conditions imposed on the formation of prosodic constituents? Exactly which
domains compose the prosodic ­
hierarchy and which tree configurations are (im)possible?
In the following subsections, we address these questions.
3.1.  Syntax–phonology mapping and the construction
of prosodic domains
In this section we present the main features that have been proposed to account for the
construction of prosodic domains in Portuguese.
3.1.1.  Prosodic structure between the prosodic word
and the phonological phrase
Usually a morphosyntactic word in Portuguese forms a PW (fé “faith,” belo “beautifulmasc
,”
adorou “loved 3p‐sg.“). However, some morphosyntactic words, namely clitics (among
which complementizers, prepositions, and the weak personal pronouns), are prosodically
dependent in the sense that they do not form PWs by themselves. In other words, clitics are
syntactic words that occupy syntactic terminal nodes, but which are defectively prosodized,
since they do not form autonomous PWs. Conversely, some morphological words may
include more than one PW, as in the case of compounds and certain derived words (e.g.
sócio‐cultural “sociocultural,” guarda‐chuva “umbrella,” pós‐guerra “post‐war,” sinceramente
“sincerely,” sozinho “alone”). It is worth observing that (1) words belonging to open classes
always form (at least) one PW; (2) clitics always belong to closed classes, are highly fre-
quent, and have at most two syllables; and (3) some affixes are assigned lexical stress and
may form a PW independent from their bases. In what follows, we will focus on the (post‐
lexical) prosodization of clitics and the prosodization of syntactic words containing more
than one PW.
Because of the phonological properties of clitic–host combinations, it has been proposed
that clitics combine with their hosts to form a postlexical PW or, in some accounts, a clitic
group (CG). While in some studies the postlexical PW and CG coincide (Bisol 2000, Brisolara
2008), in others the CG is explicitly rejected, based on arguments against clitics being parsed
within a fixed domain of the prosodic hierarchy (Vigário 2003, Simioni 2008).
In EP, evidence points fairly clearly to the prosodic adjunction of proclitics to the host PW
and the incorporation of enclitics into the host PW, as depicted in (13a–b), respectively
(Vigário 2003).
(13)
a. Proclitics: b. Enclitics:
Prosodic adjuction to PW Prosodic incorporation into PW
PW
PW
PW
σ
de ontem “of yesterday” bebe-o “drink itmasc”
The Phonology–Syntax Interface  131
The process of front vowel deletion—a rule that applies (nearly always) at the right‐edge
of the PW in intonational phrase internal position—illustrates the main facts (see 14).
The ­
process of e‐deletion applies in (14a–c) but not in (14d–e), because only in the former
the non‐back vowel is in PW‐final position. Notice that in (14c) and (14e) the weak pro-
noun incorporates into the host PW, meaning that in (14c) the clitic final vowel becomes
PW final and deletes, and in (14e) the host final vowel is nolonger PW final, and there-
fore cannot delete. In turn, e‐deletion is not mandatory in (14f), indicating that the clitic
by itself does not pattern like a PW and is not enclitic to the previous PW (this and other
facts argue in favor of the proclitic nature of preverbal weak pronouns); here deletion
may optionally occur due to a reduction process typically found in highly frequent
words. In the examples below “x
” signals very infrequent, marked realizations; bold sig-
nals the target vowel.
(14)  a. DEve 0/x
[ɨ] “(he) owes”
b. DEve aconteCER 0/ x
[j]/ x
[ɨ] “(it) must happen”
c. DEve‐te aconteCER 0/ x
[j]/ x
[ɨ] “(it) must happen to you”
d. realiZAR *0/[i]/[j] “(to) accomplish”
e. DEve‐a *0/[j] “owes it 3p‐sg”
f. JÁ te aconteCEU 0/[j]/ x
[ɨ] “(it) has already happened to you”
Importantly, proclitics as well as the initial elements of their host behave like PW initial and
unlike PW non‐initial syllables in that they may bear emphatic stress and allow variable
­
realization of stressless vowels, as in ou organizações “or organizations.” Hence, these EP
data are only compatible with an analysis in which proclitics adjoin to the PW, instead of
attaching to a higher prosodic level (as in 15a, and unlike 15b).
(15)
a.
PW
PW
ou
σ
organizações
b.
* PhP
PW
ou
σ
organizações “or organizations”
For BP, all studies agree that proclitics and enclitics behave alike, but the evidence for where
and how clitics are prosodically structured is less clear. Bisol (2000), for instance, claims that
clitics (whether proclitic or enclitic) do not integrate the PW host, but rather adjoin to it in
an extended prosodic word (postlexical prosodic word) or a clitic group, based on the fact
that many clitics (e.g. de “of,” me “to me” or por “by”) optionally exhibit a high vowel ([i, u])
regardless of their position (as in m[e] fala ~ m[i] fala and fala‐m[e] ~ fala‐m[i] “talk to me”),
just like final weak syllables in lexical PWs (e.g. fale fal[e] ~ fal[i] “speak, imp”; árabe arab[e]
~ arab[i] “Arabic”).10
In addition, vowel elision can occur between a clitic and its host (e.g.
uma hotelaria > um[o]telaria “hotel management,” da hotelaria d[o]telaria “of thefem
hotel
management”), while elision does not occur inside the PW (e.g. *maometano > m[o]metano
“Mahomedan”). The fact that palatalization of plosives followed by [i, j] applies to clitics,
but not across PWs (e.g. da historia °K
[dʒ]istória “of the history,” but carta importante *car[tʃ]
i]mportante “important letter”) is seen as evidence that clitics are not adjoined to the PhP.
132  Raquel S. Santos and Marina Vigário
In turn, Toneli (2009) defends the view that clitics adjoin to the PW in BP, based on the
fact that proclitics, like in EP, may bear PW initial stress, which is assigned to stressless
­
syllables in PW initial position. Toneli also claims that when clitics are under focus, they
form independent PWs.
That clitics are inert with respect to stress location (e.g. víamos‐te/*viamós‐te “we used to
see you”) and may violate phonotactic restrictions on PWs is usually assumed to follow from
the view that stress assignment and phonotactic restrictions operate in the lexical phonology
only (Bisol 2000, Vigário 2003). Alternatively, Simioni (2008) suggests that BP clitics attach
directly to the PhP, and therefore do not interact with word‐stress and are not subject to the
phonotactic restrictions imposed on PWs (e.g. they may start in [ʎ]). We may note that this
analysis cannot account for the fact that proclitics pattern like PW initial, at least in EP, nor
can it be extended to EP enclitics, which behave like PW internal syllables with respect to the
postlexical phonology (although they are also inert with respect to primary word stress loca-
tion in the host).
The exact mechanism responsible for the prosodic organization of clitics with their hosts
has been investigated in Vigário (2003) for EP and Simioni (2008) for BP. In the former, the
mapping between lexical and postlexical PW boundaries plays an important role: it is pro-
posed that the lowest syntactic Lex° is mapped onto a PW and that only the left edge of the
lexical PW is projected postlexically; this is meant to account for the fact that in EP only
the left, but not the right boundary of lexical PWs is reflected postlexically (recall that in EP
the phonological evidence indicates that proclitics adjoin to the PW and enclitics incorporate
into the host PW). In turn, Simioni develops an OT analysis à la Selkirk (1996), with a
particular constraint ranking accounting for the attachment of both proclitics and enclitics
directly to the PhP.
Like clitics, compound‐like constructs also occupy terminal nodes of syntactic structures.
The prosodization of this type of expression has been subject to controversy, too. Admitting
that some recursion is allowed in prosody, Guimarães (1998), Schwindt (2008), among many
others, assume that the organization of compounds and other types of PW combinations
involves recursive prosodic words (e.g. ((porta)PW
(bandeiras)PW
)PW
“standardbearer”).
Departing from previous work, Vigário (2010) claims that the constituents of these prosodic
groupings form distinct domains instead of recursive prosodic words. It is argued that this
type of constructions forms an independent domain, distinct from both the PW and the PhP
(see Section 3.3 below), which is referred to as the prosodic word group (PWG) (instead of
CG, as in previous accounts within prosodic phonology).11
Evidence for the PWG in
Portuguese includes segmental and suprasegmental phenomena, briefly illustrated below.
As we have seen above, vowel deletion processes are possible across words as a means
for hiatus resolution, but are blocked under stress clash. Within compounds, PW‐final
deletion in EP is obligatorily blocked if V2 bears PWG prominence (corresponding to the
rightmost PW within PWG). This is exemplified in (16): in (16a) V2 bears PWG (but not
PhP) prominence, and PW‐final vowel deletion is blocked (in the case of e, it typically
surfaces as [j] in this context); in (16b), by contrast, V2 is not the head of the PWG and V1
may delete.
(16) a. SN (esse‐ene) complexo [ɛ́sj ɛ́n ] JS (jota‐esse) envelhecida [ʒɔ́tɐ ɛ́s ]
“complex NP (nominal phrase)” “aged JS (youth party organization)”
b. FMI (efe‐eme‐i) [ɛ́f ɛ́mj í] JSD (jota‐esse‐dê) [ʒɔ́t ɛ́s dé]
“IMF (International Monetary Fund)” “JSD (youth party organization)”
According to Vigário and Fernandes‐Svartman (2010), the PWG is a crucial domain for pitch
accent assignment in BP, because pitch accents are obligatory on the rightmost PW of ­complex
The Phonology–Syntax Interface  133
words containing more than one PW, whereas non‐final PWs only have to be pitch‐accented
if they are long.
The coincidence most often observed between the edges of syntactic terminal nodes (spe-
cifically, lexical X0
) and the edges of the PWG is attributed to the role played by alignment
constraints (McCarthy and Prince 1994) requiring that the right and left edges of a lexical X0
coincide with the right and left edges of the PWG, respectively. Under Vigário’s (2010)
approach, every syntactic lexical terminal node forms a PWG, even if it is formed of a single
PW (e.g. brinquedo “toy”). This constituent is also subject to size conditions, which are purely
phonological (see Section 3.2. below).
3.1.2.  The phonological phrase
We next consider the formation of the phonological phrase. The majority of studies on both
varieties of Portuguese adopt (or adapt) Nespor and Vogel’s (1986) basic algorithm for PhP
formation. According to Frota (2000), for instance, the phonological phrase in EP includes
the material within the maximal projection of a lexical syntactic head (Lexmax
), namely the
lexical head (Lex°) and the elements on the head’s nonrecursive side within Lexmax
. Non‐
branching phrases are grouped within the PhP that contains the previous lexical head.
Although this seems to be a phonological requirement, it is also constrained by syntactic
information, since only complements or modifiers of the previous lexical head may be
parsed within the PhP containing that head. Guimarães (1998) takes a somewhat different
approach to the construction of prosodic domains, by making use of some aspects of the
minimalist program in the syntax–phonology mapping he proposes. In his reanalysis, there
are two linearization algorithms: one that applies to lexical items and generates unordered
chains of lexical items (π chains) and another one that linearizes the π chains. In both Nespor
and Vogel’s system and Guimarães’ reanalysis, heads and specifiers are parsed into differ-
ent PhPs. However, such parsing encounters a number of problems with respect to BP.
Santos (1997), for instance, observes that stress shift is possible in a sentence like de leite, o
DAvi GOsta “Milk, Davi likes” in which o Davi cannot be restructured with gosta (compare
this sentence with o daVI GOSta de leite “Davi likes milk,” in which stress shift is not allowed).
In addition, Guimarães (1998) shows that stress shift may also take place when the subject
is a pronoun (as in voCÊ JOga futebol “You play football,” which can be produced as VOcê
JOga futebol).
3.1.3.  The intonational phrase
Let us now consider the syntax–phonology mapping at the level of IP (Frota 2000, Tenani
2002, Fernandes 2007). The IP includes all adjacent PhPs within a root sentence. PhPs in a
string not structurally attached to the sentence tree (e.g. parenthetical phrases, explicative
clauses, vocatives, topics) form IPs on their own, and so does any remaining sequence of
adjacent PhPs attached to the sentence tree. In an SVO sentence with a parenthetical inter-
vening ­
between S and VO, for instance, both S and VO form an IP. Long IPs are constrained
by phonological conditions, which may be responsible for the formation of shorter IPs, as we
will see in the next subsection. Importantly, however, these shorter IP must be obtained in
compliance with a further syntactic requirement: head–complement and modifier–modifyee
relations should not be broken.
Whereas in Standard European Portuguese (SEP) SVO sentences tend to be phrased as a
single IP, unless the subject is long, in the variety spoken in Braga, in the north of Portugal
(NEP), subjects very often form an IP irrespective of length considerations. Elordieta, Frota,
and Vigário (2005) propose that this difference follows from a difference in the syntax of subjects.
Specifically, it is suggested that in NEP (as in Spanish) subjects may syntactically attach
higher in the sentence than in SEP, being base‐generated as adjuncts to InflP or CP, instead of
134  Raquel S. Santos and Marina Vigário
being internal to InflP (or the Extended VP projection), as in SEP. Being more external in the
sentence, subjects in NEP tend therefore to form their own intonational phrase, like topics,
for instance, unlike in SEP.
3.2.  Purely phonological constraints on prosodic phrasing
at different levels (PWG, PhP, IP)
The prosodic constituents from the PWG‐level up are constrained by purely phonological
requirements, such as maximal or minimal weight or size.12
In EP, PWGs seem to be maximally composed of three PWs. Evidence for this includes
prominence and deletion processes (Vigário 2010). As we have seen above, PW‐final
e‐deletion is obligatorily blocked only when V2 bears PWG prominence. The examples in
(16) above show that PWGs formed of two or three PWs only block e‐deletion once. However,
as soon as a compound contains four PWs, pairs of PWs are grouped into two PWGs, each of
which with the prominent PW on the right. Once V2 bears PWG prominence, V1 deletion is
blocked.13
Notice that, if the four PWs were grouped into a single PWG, there would be no
explanation for V1 resisting deletion, like in other internal positions where V2 is not the
PWG head. Besides that, prominence relations are also perceived. The example in (17) below,
show the prominence relations at the PW and PWG level.
(17)  w s w s PWG‐level prominence
s s s s PW‐level prominence
MRPP (Eme‐Erre‐PÊ‐PÊ) (Em[j]‐Erre)PWG
‐(PÊ‐PÊ)PWG
At the PhP level one also observes minimality conditions on its size. When a lexical phrase is
a non‐branching modifier or a non‐branching complement of the previous Lex, it is grouped
with the PhP containing the previous Lex. Evidence from EP includes stress clash‐resolution
strategies as well as prominence and pitch accent assignment (Frota 2000). For example, it
was shown in Section 2.3 that lengthening is a strategy for stress clash resolution within a
PhP, but not across PhPs, as exemplified in (8). (8b) further shows that a PhP may contain just
one PW, which led Frota (2000) to propose that a PhP should contain more material than a
PW if possible. According to Sândalo and Truckenbrodt (2002), this requirement is overruled
in BP by the Principle of Uniformity, which favors PhPs of equal length. According to these
authors,theconstructionofPhPsinBPtakesintoconsiderationnotonlysyntacticinformation,
but also focus, eurythmic, and length effects. Length effects are taken into account for
explaining why stress shift is more acceptable in o caFÉ QUENte queima a boca “hot coffee
burns the mouth,” whose PhPs are of the same size, than in o caFÉ QUENte queima, whose
PhPs sizes are imbalanced. In the latter case, if each lexical word is the head of its own PhP,
this creates more balanced phrases, but it also entails that stress shift, which is a strategy
available only inside PhP, may no longer apply.
IPs are also subject to phonological conditions: long IPs tend to be divided and IP phras-
ing favors balanced phrases or else longer phrases at the rightmost position (Frota 2014).
There is evidence for a maximal optimal IP size in EP. According to Elordieta, Frota, and
Vigário (2005), while short SVO sentences usually form a single IP, subjects containing more
than 8 syllables tend to form an IP on their own. Furthermore, Frota’s (2000) findings suggest
that when syntax–phonology mapping requirements yield short IPs (e.g. when a parenthetical
is short), these IPs are not avoided, but a compound domain may be formed instead, grouping
a short IP with an adjacent IP, as in [[as alunas]I
[até onde sabemos]I
]I
[obtiveram boas avaliações]I
“The students, as far as we know, have got good marks.” We return to IP compounding in
Section 3.3. below.
The Phonology–Syntax Interface  135
As in other languages, speech rate may also be responsible for mismatches between
­
syntactic structure and prosodic structure, as the same sentence may be phrased differently,
depending on speech rate.
3.3.  On the geometry of prosodic trees
Among the most controversial issues in the syntax–phonology interface is the status of
recursivity. While recursivity is clearly a property of syntactic structures, phonology has
been considered to be non‐recursive since the early days of prosodic phonology (Selkirk
1984, Nespor and Vogel 1986). This was seen as one of the major differences between the two
structures, the former being deeper, with (potentially) unlimited depth, and the latter being
flatter and composed of a fixed number of levels, as defined by the Strict Layer Hypothesis
(SLH). In more recent work within optimality theory, the SLH has been reinterpreted as a set
of constraints, some of which are violable (Selkirk 1996). This has given way to proposals in
which adjuntion and compound structures violating *Recursion may surface. As we have
seen in previous sections, these structures involve proclitics (often argued to be adjunct to
PW—as in a alma (a (alma)PW
)PW
“the soul”), compound‐like elements with internal PWs (fre-
quently claimed to be grouped into a recursive PW—as in (ultra‐calmo (ultra)PW
‐(calmo)PW
)PW
“extra calm”), and short IPs inside longer sentences, under particular conditions.
As was argued earlier, the prosodization of clitics is usually taken to allow prosodic
­
configurations that violate restrictions otherwise respected in the construction of prosodic
domains, even in proposals where the CG is adopted, as in Bisol (2005). In the case of
­
compounding, often analyzed as involving balanced recursion such that the higher node
dominates two or more constituents of the same level, the possibility of PW recursion has
been explicitly argued against, as by Vigário (2010), who argues in favor of an additional
PWG domain. This author shows that several types of categorical phonological phenomena
from EP and other languages make reference to this domain, and that the PWG is subject to
size conditions that are not imposed on PWs. Another piece of evidence is especially telling
in showing that the relevant constituent does not correspond to a recursive PW. In languages
like Turkish and Dutch, the main rule for word stress refers to the right edge of the PW,
whereas within compounds, stress is assigned with reference to the left edge of the higher
node. Such different stress patterns would be unexpected in recursive PWs.
Unlike compound‐like groupings, the topmost node that includes compound IPs (IPmax
)
appears to display exactly the same kind of phonology as the internal IPs, although with more
salient traits. For example, IPmax
may display pause insertion, its preboundary final length-
ening is stronger, and its pitch range at the right‐edge is larger (see Frota 2012). Importantly,
prosodic rules circumscribed to the IP domain (e.g. resyllabification) apply not only inside the
internal IP but also across internal IPs, within IPmax
, as expected if the higher node is also an IP.
The phonology of PWGs and of compound IPs has been argued to point to the existence
of two distinct types of prosodic organizations. According to Frota (2012), there is a difference
between prosodic constituents and levels of phrasing. The former are defined by syntax‐to‐
phonology mapping relations and are cued by a particular set of phonological and phonetic
properties, whereas the latter involve recursion and groupings of the same prosodic cate-
gory and are cued by gradient differences in the strength of the same set of phonological and
phonetic properties.
3.4.  Phonological phenomena and the organization of grammar
In addition to syntax, phonology seems to relate to other grammatical components. For ­
instance,
lexical phonology, unlike postlexical phonology, may refer to morphological, as well as lexical
information (e.g. exceptions to rules must be lexically listed). In turn, postlexical processes
136  Raquel S. Santos and Marina Vigário
may be sensitive to combinations of words and are often optional and only make reference
to phonological information. As we have seen earlier, the division between lexical and
postlexical phonology is in fact crucial for most proposals on the prosodic organization of
clitics and compounds in Portuguese. For example, phonological phenomena in EP indicate
a similar prosodization of enclitics and suffixes, on the one hand, and proclitics and prefixes,
on the other; however, enclitics and proclitics differ from suffixes and prefixes in not inter-
acting with lexical phonological phenomena (see Vigário 2003).
Phrasal prosody alone may also signal meaning, that is, in some cases information that is
required for sentence interpretation comes from prosody alone. In languages like Portuguese,
contrastive focus may be signaled solely by prosodic means. This happens, for example,
when H*+L is assigned to a focused element, which becomes the head of IP, and tonal com-
pression follows. Here phonology marking appears not to be just a reflection of syntactic
structure, as in the case of topics, for example. Similarly, phonology alone may also signal
sentence types by means of particular tunes.14
3.5.  Other (non‐trivial) interactions between
syntax and prosody
While in general the relation between syntax and phonology seems largely confined to the
point in the grammar where prosodic domains are built, in a number of specific construc-
tions the two components seem to interact further. In coordinated structures in Portuguese,
for example, a PW may be deleted under conditions of phonological identiy (Vigário and
Frota 2002). The fact that deletion under identity targets PWs is shown by contrasts like those
in (18a); in turn, the relevance of coordination is demonstrated by examples like (18b), which
do not involve syntactic coordination and where deletion is impossible under the same
prosodic conditions.
(18) a. (alegre)PW
(mente)PW
ou (triste)PW
(mente)PW
vs. *(acampamento)PW
ou (acantonamento)PW
“happily or sadly” “camping or sheltering”
(mono)PW
(gâmico)PW
e (poli)PW
(gâmico)PW
vs. *(monografia)PW
e (biografia)PW
“monogamic and polygamic” “monography and biography”
b. *(certa)PW
(mente)PW
(inteligente)PW
(mente)PW
“certainly intelligently”
Another case of non‐trivial syntax–phonology interaction involves word‐order preferences
under prosodic conditions related to weight (size of prosodic constituents and prominence),
as illustrated in (19) below. Some particular syntactic constructions (e.g. topicalization,
­
parenthetical insertion, and heavy NP shift) suggest that the preference for a particular word
order on the basis of phonological weight is restricted to late syntactic operations (stylistic or
discourse related), still available when the syntax–phonology mapping takes place (Frota
and Vigário 2002).
(19) ??A Ana comprou o quadro do vencedor do concurso ao Pedro
A Ana comprou ao Pedro o quadro do vencedor do concurso.
“Ana bought from Pedro the painting by the winner of the contest”
Yet another case of complex interactions is illustrated by “syllabified intonation” in BP
(Nunes 2000). This phenomenon involves a specific change in the speech rate triggered by
certain determiners, which is used to signal an evaluative reading, as in O João dançou com
The Phonology–Syntax Interface  137
U‐MA‐me‐ni‐na‐no‐ba‐ile “João danced with a girl at the ball” (meaning a very beautiful girl).
Interestingly, such “syllabified intonation” must be maintained as far as the end of the IP.
According to Nunes (2000), the domain of application of this process is to be defined in
­
syntactic terms, namely, Spell Out domains.
Finally, it is worth mentioning the interesting issue of whether empty syntactic categories
can be computed by phonology. Nespor and Vogel (1986) and others argue against the idea
of empty syntactic categories playing a role in prosodic computations. However, Nunes and
Santos (2009) show that stress shift in BP cannot apply blindly across any type of empty syn-
tactic category. Specifically, traces of syntactic movement do not block stress retraction, but a
null pronominal (pro) does (regardless of the Case properties of the null elements), as illus-
trated in (19) below. Assuming Chomsky’s (1995) copy theory of movement, according to
which traces are deleted copies, the authors argue that the data in (20) can be accounted for
if copy deletion takes place before stress clash computation. In other words, traces have
already been deleted at the point where stress shift applies, whereas pro is still present and is
computed for adjacency purposes.
(20) a. [nem    a     unha]i
    a    Maria CORtou ti
HOje
“not even the fingernail, Maria cut today”
b. [a carta da Maria ]i
CHEgou ti
Ontem
“Maria’s letter arrived yesterday”
c. # [esse bolo]     a     Maria passou mal [island
depois que COmeu pro HOje]
“this cake, Maria felt sick after she ate today”
d. # esse bebê,  a  babá    CUIdou    pro ontem.
“this baby the nanny took care of yesterday”
4.  Concluding remarks
Issues related to the syntax–phonology interface in Portuguese have been extensively
studied in the past two decades, mainly within the framework of prosodic phonology.
In general, the focus has been on the description of Portuguese from a cross‐linguistic
perspective. The major contribution of Portuguese‐oriented studies has been their adding
to the cumulating evidence in favor of the model of prosodic phonology and the view
that the relation between phonology and other components of grammar is limited and
principled.
Since prosody provides a structure for the organization of speech and establishes a
principled interface with syntax and morphology, it plays a crucial role both in language
acquisition and in speech processing by children and adults. Owing to space limitations,
we have not addressed these issues in the present chapter. However, it is worth men-
tioning some of the matters that have attracted the attention of researchers working on
Portuguese in these domains: the role of prosody in early word segmentation and word
categorization; the effect of morphosyntactic information and the position within pro-
sodic domains on the emergence and development of coda segments; the grammatical
status of filler sounds in early speech; the role of prosodic information in speech processing
and syntactic disambiguation.
Finally, we would like to point out that there is very little research on the prosody of vari-
eties of Portuguese other than those spoken in Brazil and Portugal. Nevertheless, we believe
that work on other varieties will provide fruitful grounds for future research and contribute
to deepening our understanding of Portuguese grammar(s) and the possible sources of var-
iation in prosodic organization.
138  Raquel S. Santos and Marina Vigário
Notes
1	 This work has been partially supported by the Interactive Atlas of the Prosody of Portuguese
Project (PTDC/CLE‐LIN/119787/2010, Fundação para a Ciência e Tecnologia) and FAPESP
­
(process 2012/23900‐4). We are grateful to Leo Wetzels and Jairo Nunes for very helpful comments
in several stages of this work.
2	 For details and relevant discussion, see among others, Wetzels (1992), Bisol (2000), Schwindt (2000),
and Vigário (2003).
3	 When relevant, syllables bearing word stress will be represented with capital letters.
4	 See a.o. Vigário (2003), Fernandes (2007), Toneli (2014).
5	 Vowel Reduction and deletion provide evidence that in (3a) there are two PWs, while in (3b) there
is only one: in telefone all letters <e> are either pronounced as schwas or deleted, which means
that they do not bear stress. In turn, in telemóvel the first <e > is low, and stress is perceptible in the
first syllable. EP differs from many other languages, including BP, in that clipping targets the
whole PW.
6	 The underlined vowels undergo neutralization in stressless position in both varieties, the process
being obligatory in EP and optional in BP.
7	 AccordingtoTenani(2002),furthermore,inadditiontostressshift,BPalsousesbeatinsertionasastrategy
for hiatus resolution when the central vowels (a a) are involved, within and across PhPs, unlike in EP.
8	 In EP, syllable degemination is characterized as involving fusion between two vowels (cf. Frota
2000)—in (11b), for instance, the two medium central vowels merge into a low central vowel. In BP,
on the other hand, linguists disagree on the actual process that takes place, as the vowel does not
change in quality. For Bisol (1992), for example, the process deletes the first vowel, whereas for
Tenani (2002) there is fusion and optional shortening of the vowel.
9	 BP and EP also seem to differ with respect to the possibility of V2 semivocalization: while camisa
usada > camisa[w]sada “used shirt” is possible in BP, it has been described as marginal in EP (cf.
Bisol 1992 and Vigário 2003, respectively).
10	 See also Brisolara (2008), who shows that vowel height alternations in pronominal clitics do not
result from Vowel Harmony, but from the neutralization of stressless vowels.
11	 A fundamental difference distinguishes the Prosodic Word Group from the Clitic Group (Nespor
and Vogel 1986) and the Composite Group (Vogel 2009): the former, unlike the latter two, is
assumed to have no special status with respect to the prosodization of clitics.
12	 In many languages the PW is subject to minimality conditions (e.g. it cannot be shorter than a
binary foot). However, this is not the case in Portuguese, as words like li “(I) read” or nu “naked”
are relatively frequent (Bisol 2000).
13	 In the examples, “s” represents heads; “w” signals non‐heads.
14	 See Chapter 9, Intonation in European and Brazilian Portuguese.
References
Abousalah, E. (1997). Resoluções de choque de
acento no português brasileiro: elementos para
uma reflexão sobre a interface fonologiasintaxe.
MA thesis, Universidade Estadual de
Campinas.
Bisol, L. (1992). Sândi Vocálico Externo:
Degeminação e Elisão. Cadernos de Estudos
Lingüísticos, 23, pp. 83–101.
Bisol, L. (2000). O clítico e seu status prosódico.
Revista de Estudos da Linguagem, 9 (1), pp. 5–30.
Bisol, L. (2003). Sandhi in Brazilian Portuguese.
Probus, 15, pp. 117–200.
Bisol, L. (2005). O clítico e seu hospedeiro. Letras
de Hoje, 40 (3), pp. 163–184.
Brisolara, L. (2008). Os clíticos pronominais do
Português Brasileiro e sua prosodização. Ph.D.
dissertation, Pontifícia Universidade Católica
do Rio Grande do Sul.
Chomsky, N. (1995). The Minimalist Program.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
The Phonology–Syntax Interface  139
Elordieta, G., S. Frota, and M. Vigário (2005).
Subjects, objects and intonational phrasing in
Spanish and Portuguese. Studia Linguistica, 59
(2–3), pp. 110–143.
Fernandes, F. R. (2007). Ordem, focalização e
preenchimento em português: sintaxe e prosódia.
Ph.D. dissertation, Universidade Estadual de
Campinas.
Frota, S. (1995). Clashes and Prosodic Domains
in EP. Proceedings 19. Institute of Phonetic
Sciences, University of Amsterdam,
pp. 93–107.
Frota, S. (2000). Prosody and Focus in European
Portuguese. Phonological Phrasing and Intonation.
New York: Garland.
Frota, S. (2012). Prosodic structure, constituents
and their representations. In A. Cohn, C.
Fougeron, and M. Huffman (eds.), The
Oxford Handbook of Laboratory Phonology.
Oxford. Oxford University Press,
pp. 255–265.
Frota, S. (2014). The intonational phonology of
European Portuguese. In Sun‐Ah Jun (ed.),
Prosodic Typology II. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, pp. 6–42.
Frota, S. and M. Vigário (2002). Efeitos de peso
no Português Europeu. In M. H. Mateus and
C. N. Correia (eds.), Saberes no Tempo.
Homenagem a Maria Henriqueta Costa Campos.
Lisbon: Colibri, pp. 315–333.
Gravina, A. P. and F. R. Fernandes‐Svartman
(2013). Interface sintaxe‐fonologia:
desambiguação pela estrutura prosódica no
português brasileiro. Alfa: Revista de Linguística
(UNESP. Online), 57, pp. 639–668.
Guimarães, M. (1998) Repensando a Interface
Sintaxe‐Fonologia a partir do Axioma de
Correspondência Linear. MA thesis,
Universidade Estadual de Campinas.
Mattoso Câmara, J. Jr. (1972). The Portuguese
Language. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
McCarthy, J. J. and A. Prince (1994). Generalized
alignment. In G. Booij and J. van Marle (eds.),
Yearbook of Morphology 1993. Dordrecht: Kluwer
Academic, pp. 79–153.
Morais Barbosa, J. (1965). Etudes de phonologie
portugaise. Lisbon: Junta de Investigações do
Utramar [2nd edn., Évora: Universidade de
Évora, 1983].
Nespor, M. and I. Vogel (1986). Prosodic
phonology. Dordrecht: Foris. Republished 2007
by Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin.
Nunes, J. (2000). Entonação silabada no
português: uma análise minimalista. Paper
presented at 48th Meeting of the SBPC
(Sociedade Brasileira para o Progresso
da Ciência). Universidade de Brasília,
July 14, 2000.
Nunes, J. and R. S. Santos (2009). Stress shift as a
diagnosis for identifying empty categories in
Brazilian Portuguese. In J. Nunes (ed.),
Minimalist Essays in Brazilian Portuguese
Syntax. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 121–136.
Sândalo, F. and H. Truckenbrodt (2002). Some
notes on phonological phrasing in Brazilian
Portuguese. Delta, 18, pp. 1–30.
Santos, R. (1997). A fonologia fornecendo pistas
sobre a sintaxe: o caso dos objetos nulos.
Cadernos de Estudos Linguisticos, 34,
pp 169–179.
Schwindt, L. C. (2000). O prefixo no português
brasileiro: análise morfofonológica. Ph.D.
dissertation, Pontifícia Universidade Católica
do Rio Grande do Sul.
Schwindt, L. C. (2008). Revisitando o estatuto
prosódico e morfológico de palavras
prefixadas do PB em uma perspectiva de
restrições. Alfa, 52 (2), pp. 391–404.
Selkirk, E. (1984). Phonology and Syntax. The
Relation Between Sound and Structure.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Selkirk, E. (1996). The prosodic structure of
function words. In J. L. Morgan and K.
Demuth (eds.), Signal to Syntax: Bootstrapping
from Speech to Grammar in Early Acquisition.
Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum,
pp. 187–213.
Simioni, T. (2008). O clítico e seu lugar na
hierarquia prosódica em português brasileiro.
Alfa, 52 (2), pp. 431–446.
Tenani, L. (2002). Domínios prosódicos no
Português. Ph.D. dissertation, Universidade
Estadual de Campinas.
Toneli, Priscila (2009). A palavra prosódica no
Português Brasileiro: o estatuto prosódico das
palavras funcionais. MA thesis, Universidade
Estadual de Campinas.
Toneli, Priscila (2014). A palavra prosódica no
Português Brasileiro. Ph.D. dissertation,
Universidade Estadual de Campinas.
Vigário, M. (2003). The Prosodic Word in European
Portuguese. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Vigário, M. (2010). Prosodic structure between
the prosodic word and the phonological
phrase: recursive nodes or an independent
domain? The Linguistic Review, 27 (4), pp.
485–530.
Vigário, M. and F. Fernandes‐Svartman (2010).
A atribuição tonal em compostos no Português
do Brasil. In A. M. Brito, F. Silva, J. Veloso, and
140  Raquel S. Santos and Marina Vigário
A. Fiéis (eds.), XXV Encontro Nacional da
Associação Portuguesa de Linguística. Textos
seleccionados. Porto: Associação Portuguesa de
Linguística, pp. 769–786.
Vigário, M. and S. Frota (2002). Prosodic word
deletion in coordinate structures. Journal of
Portuguese Linguistics, 1 (2), pp. 241–264.
Vogel, I. (2009). The status of the clitic group. In J.
Grijzenhout and B. Kabak (eds.), Phonological
Domains. Universals and Deviations. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter, pp. 15–46.
Wetzels, L. (1992) Mid vowel neutralization in
Brazilian Portuguese. Cadernos de Estudos
Lingüísticos, 23, pp. 19–55.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1.  Introduction: Intonation and its functions in Portuguese
Intonation is the use of phonetic features, namely pitch, to express phrase‐level meanings in
ways that are linguistically structured (Gussenhoven 2007; Ladd 2008). The roles played by
intonation in language have long been described in terms of three main functions of into-
nation (e.g. Halliday 1967): demarcation, that is the chunking or phrasing of the speech
stream into intonation‐based units; highlighting, that is the placement of prominence within
an utterance; and the distinction of utterance types, i.e. statements, questions, imperatives,
­
vocatives. Grammaticalizations of all or some of these functions may be found in different
languages, with different realizations, and define the language‐specific phonology of intona-
tion. In this chapter, we describe the intonation system of Portuguese, concentrating on the
analysis of the three main functions of intonation. The framework adopted is the auto‐
segmental metrical theory of intonational phonology (e.g., Gussenhoven 2004; Jun 2005,
2014; Ladd 2008), along the lines of previous descriptions of the intonation of Brazilian and
European Portuguese (Viana 1987; Frota 1997, 2000, 2002a, 2014; Mata 1999; Frota and Vigário
2000, 2007; Tenani 2002; Fernandes 2007a, b; Moraes 2008; Serra 2009, inter alia).1
We begin by considering the chunking function of intonation in Section 2, where intona-
tional phrasing in Portuguese is described. Tonal marking of intonational phrases is dis-
cussed, as well as the distribution of tonal events within the intonational phrase. Other levels
of prosodic phrasing that are intonationally relevant are also discussed.
Section 3 addresses the highlighting function of intonation in Portuguese, namely the
strategies used to mark focus prosodically. Several strategies are discussed, like pitch accent
placement, pitch accent type, phrasing markers, expanded pitch range for the focal accent,
prefocal and postfocal deaccenting or pitch range compression.
Section 4 is devoted to the contribution of intonation to sentence type distinctions. The
nuclear contours of four main sentence types are described: statements, questions (wh‐
questions and yes–no questions), imperatives (commands and requests), and vocatives
(greeting call and insistent call). Together with a basic intonational inventory of pitch accents
and boundary tones, other key features of the intonation system of Portuguese are discussed,
namely the ways the language explores tonal alignment to convey meaning distinctions and
the preferred tune–text accommodation strategies.
Unless otherwise stated, the present chapter is based on the description of a single variety:
the Lisbon variety for European Portuguese (hereafter EP), and the Rio de Janeiro variety for
Brazilian Portuguese (hereafter BP). In Section 5, we provide a summary description of the
Intonation in European
and Brazilian Portuguese
Sónia Frota and João Antônio
de Moraes
9
142  Sónia Frota and João Antônio de Moraes
main dimensions of variation across varieties of Portuguese, covering the data available for
different European and Brazilian varieties.
Finally, Section 6 discusses the intonation of Portuguese within the Romance space, from
a typological perspective.
2.  Intonation and phrasing
One of the key functions of intonation is the division of the speech stream into prosodic
units. Intonation is one of the ways in which the prosodic structure of an utterance manifests
itself (together with timing patterns and variations in segmental variation), and thus pro-
vides relevant cues to the grouping/demarcation of the prosodic units that characterize
spoken utterances. Importantly, the organizational structure of spoken utterances is not
entirely predictable from their syntactic structure, depending on the phonological grammar
of the language and the particular choices made by the speaker among the possibilities avail-
able for a given utterance (Nespor and Vogel 2007; Wagner and Watson 2010). In this section,
we describe the language‐particular preferences in intonational grouping that characterize
European and Brazilian Portuguese, the size of intonational phrases, the distribution of tonal
events within the intonational phrase and the ways in which intonational boundaries are
realized. Although the intonational phrase is the prosodic unit under analysis, other levels of
prosodic phrasing that are intonationally relevant in Portuguese are also discussed.
The intonational phrase (IP) is the prosodic constituent that constitutes the domain for the
intonation contour (Nespor and Vogel 2007), in other words it necessarily contains one and
only one nuclear contour. In stress languages like English and Portuguese, the nuclear contour
is the melody on the nuclear syllable and subsequent post‐tonic syllable(s). In most Romance
languages nuclear prominence is rightmost within the IP (Nespor and Vogel 2007; Ladd 2008).
Beyond this general definition of the IP, which fully applies to Portuguese, European and
Brazilian Portuguese differ in important ways with respect to intonational phrases.
One of the main differences between EP and BP concerns the intonational characterization
of the IP. In EP, only the head of the IP needs to be pitch accented and only the right‐edge of the
IP requires tonal boundary marking (Frota 2000, 2014). In BP, almost every prosodic word is
pitch accented (Frota and Vigário 2000; Tenani 2002; Fernandes 2007b; Tenani and Fernandes‐
Svartman 2008; Vigário and Fernandes‐Svartman 2010). This is illustrated by the sparse pitch
accentuation of the rendition of the five prosodic word utterance in Figure 9.1 by an EP speaker
in contrast with the rich pitch accentuation of a similar utterance produced by a BP speaker.
Thus, in EP tonal events, pitch accents included, mostly occur near the edges of intona-
tional phrases, and phrase‐internal prosodic words are frequently unaccented. Tonal events
have therefore a demarcative function signalling intonational phrasing. In BP, by contrast,
tonal events tend to characterize prosodic words and cue prominent syllables. However, in
EP as in BP intonational phrase boundaries are usually signalled by a continuation rise
contour (a rising accent LH followed by a high boundary tone) if utterance‐internal, although
a low boundary tone can also be found (Frota 2000; Tenani 2002; Frota, d’Imperio, Elordieta,
Prieto, and Vigário 2007; Serra 2009).
The division of utterances into intonational phrases has been extensively studied for EP
on the basis of neutral declarative sentences containing a subject, a verb and an object, in that
linear order (Elordieta, Frota, and Vigário 2005; Frota and Vigário 2007). It was found that the
intonational phrasing of SVO in a single IP prevails, yielding relatively long phrases contain-
ing four or more prosodic words. Although parallel studies are not yet available for BP,
recent data from the Interactive Atlas of the Prosody of Portuguese Project (Frota 2012–2015)
suggest that phrasing preferences in BP promote shorter phrases in equivalent contexts, as
shown in Figure 9.2.
Intonation in European and Brazilian Portuguese  143
Portuguese has been described has having only one level of prosodic phrasing relevant
for intonational structure: the intonational phrase. This means that prosodic phrases smaller
than the intonational phrase do not exhibit tonal boundary marking (Frota 2000, 2002a;
Tenani 2002; Moraes 2008). However, unlike in EP, in some descriptions of BP (São Paulo
variety) narrow focus may be manifested by the presence of a low phrase boundary
Figure 9.1  F0 contour of the utterance A loura gravava uma melodia maravilhosa do lagareiro/
marinheiro (‘The blond girl recorded a wonderful song from the olive‐pressman/sailor’),
produced by an EP speaker (panel a) and a BP speaker (panel b).
0 0.5
<H*
1 1.5 2 2.5
300
(a)
260
220
180
F0
(Hz)
140
100
a loura gravava uma melodia maravilhosa do lagareiro
H+L* L%
4
0 0.5
L+H L+H L+H L+H
1 1.5 2 2.5 3
300
260
220
180
F0
(Hz)
140
100
a loura gravava uma melodia maravilhosa do marinheiro
H+L* L%
4
(b)
144  Sónia Frota and João Antônio de Moraes
associated to the right edge of the phonological phrase that contains the focused element
(Fernandes 2007a; Tenani and Fernandes‐Svartman 2008). In this pragmatic context, tonal
boundary marking may function as a demarcation cue in BP, signaling a level of prosodic
phrasing lower than the intonational phrase. Prosodic focus in Portuguese is the topic of the
following section.
3.  Intonation and focus
It is known that languages with word stress tend to have postlexical pitch accents (Jun 2005).
This generalization could be extended to include the likelihood of stress languages to gram-
maticalize the highlighting function of intonation. In these languages, prominence at the
intonational phrase level tends to be realized culminatively by means of a pitch accent,
which is the nuclear pitch accent within the prosodic phrase, and nuclear pitch accent loca-
tion reflects the intended focus of the utterance. Portuguese is a stress language that uses
intonation as a device to express focus.
Focus is here understood as the most important part of an utterance. There are several
theories of focus and various definitions of types of focus (e.g., Ladd 2008; Wagner and
Watson 2010). Two types of focus are usually distinguished: (1) narrow focus, which indi-
cates the contribution, in terms of new (or more relevant) information made in the utterance,
and (2) contrastive focus, which explicitly contradicts a previous assertion or presupposi-
tion. In the former, focus identifies the part of the answer that corresponds to the wh‐part of
a question; in the latter, focus leads to a corrective interpretation of a previous proposition.
The domain or size of the focus constituent may also vary, distinguishing narrow and con-
trastive focus from broad focus. In the narrow and contrastive focus cases the domain is
typically a single word or a short constituent. In broad focus cases a larger constituent or the
whole utterance is the focus.
0 0.5
L%
1 1.5 2 2.5
350
300
250
200
F0
(Hz)
150
100
a jovem de Lima gravava a serenata
L%
4
4
Figure 9.2  F0 contour of the utterance A jovem de Lima gravava a serenata (‘The young woman
from Lima recorded a serenate’), produced by a BP speaker.
Intonation in European and Brazilian Portuguese  145
In Portuguese, focus can be implemented by syntactic, morphological or prosodic devices,
or by a combination of them. For example, the inversion of the canonical word order can be
used as a mechanism to express contrastiveness, as in Elegante está você (canonical order Você
está elegante), rendered in English by a cleft sentence “It is you that is stylish.” Cleft structures
can also be used in Portuguese, as in the expression Eu é que agradeço (“I am the one that is
grateful,” implying me, not you). The same interpretation can be achieved by the assignment
of prosodic prominence to the utterance’s subject “Eu,” as in EU agradeço (“I thank you”). In
this section, we describe the strategies used in Portuguese to mark focus prosodically, con-
centrating on utterances with narrow and contrastive focus. For the intonational analysis of
Portuguese, and along the lines of previous work on EP and BP (Frota 2000, 2002b, 2014;
Frota and Vigário 2000; Tenani 2002; Fernandes 2007a, b; Moraes 2008; Frota et al. 2015), we
recognize two main types of tonal events: pitch accents, which may be simple or complex
(i.e., monotonal like L* or bitonal like L*+H), and boundary tones, peripherally associated to
intonational phrase edges and that may also be simple or complex events (e.g., L% or LH%).
3.1.  Focus in statements
Previous work on prosodic focus in statements shows that pitch accent placement is a robust
strategy to signal focus in Portuguese, but the choice of pitch accent may differ in EP and BP.
In EP, narrow focus, whether contrastive or not, is expressed by similar pitch contours: a
falling pitch accent with the peak on the stressed syllable of the focalized element immedi-
ately followed by a fall (Frota 1997, 2000, 2002b, 2014; Vigário 1998; Fernandes 2007b; Frota
et al. 2015). Figure 9.3 illustrates the focus contour in narrow and contrastive focus contexts
(panel a and panel b versus panel c), and in late and early focus position in the sentence
(panel a versus panel b and panel c).
The focus contour has been analyzed as showing an H*+L pitch accent, which contrasts
with the nuclear fall that characterizes neutral (broad focus) statements where the peak is
located in the pre‐nuclear syllable (H+L*, see Section 4). Importantly, narrow/contrastive
focus is also signaled by lengthening, whereas peak height was not found to be a robust cue
of focus across speakers (Frota 2000). The systematic contrast between H*+L and H+L*
revealed in production data was also found to play a role in perception. Frota (2012) ­
provides
experimental evidence that the difference in the alignment pattern of HL is enough to trigger
a perceptual change between a neutral and a narrow/contrastive focus interpretation.
Besides the presence of a special pitch accent as a strategy to signal focus, pitch range
compression is also a focus marker in statements with an early focus. The postnuclear stretch
shows a compressed pitch range, which enhances the nuclear prominence of the focused
element, as illustrated in Figure 9.3 (panels b and c). However, there is no deaccenting in the
postnuclear contour. A postnuclear accent on the last stressed syllable of the IP is usually
found, but with reduced range, as shown in Figure 9.3 (Frota 2000, 2002a, 2014). Prefocal
pitch range compression, unlike postfocal one, has not been documented in EP. The presence
of a narrow or contrastive focus in an utterance was also not found to impact on the prosodic
and intonational phrasing of that utterance that remains similar to its neutral counterpart
(Frota 2000, 2002b).
In BP, there seems not to be a single pitch accent type associated with the expression of
focus. In addition, some studies have reported that narrow and contrastive focus are con-
veyed by similar pitch contours (Truckenbrodt, Sândalo, and Abaurre 2009), while other
reported differences between the two types of foci (Moraes 2006).
Differently from EP, narrow focus in final position presents a low fall nuclear contour,
characterized by a F0 peak on the syllable preceding the final stressed syllabe of the utter-
ance (belonging or not to the same word) and a fall on the stressed syllable (Moraes 2008,
Truckenbrodt et al. 2009). This contour, illustrated in Figure 9.4 (panel a), is analysed as a
146  Sónia Frota and João Antônio de Moraes
Figure 9.3  F0 contour of the utterance As angolanas ofereceram especiarias aos jornalistas
(’The Angolan girls offered spices to the journalists’), with a narrow focus on ‘aos jornalistas’
(in response to ‘Whom did they give spices to?’), in the panel a, and with a narrow focus on ‘as
angolanas’ (in response to ‘Who offered spices to the journalists?’), in the panel b. F0 contour of
the utterance O pintor cantou uma manhã angelical, with a contrastive focus on ‘manhã’ (in
response to ‘Was it an angelic night that the artist sang?’), in the panel c.
0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5
350
300
250
200
F0
(Hz)
150
100
as angolanas ofereceram especiarias aos JORNALISTAS
L%
H*+L
4
(a)
0
0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5
300
260
220
180
F0
(Hz)
140
100
as ANGOLANAS ofereceram especiarias aos jornalistas
L%
H+L*
H*+L
4
(b)
0
Intonation in European and Brazilian Portuguese  147
H+L* pitch accent and does not differentiate a statement with a late narrow focus from a
neutral statement, which also has H+L* as the nuclear accent (see Section 4). If the final
focus is contrastive, the H+L* pitch accent can show expanded pitch range, as in Figure 9.4
(panel b). The contrastive focus pattern is thus characterized by a rise to an extra‐high level
on the prenuclear syllable and a fall to a low level on the stressed syllable of the focused
word. The focused word also presents an increase in duration and in intensity, mainly in the
stressed syllable, features which play an important role in the identification of this pattern
(Moraes 2008).
Unlike in Moraes (2008), where the Rio de Janeiro variety is described, in the description
by Truckenbrodt et al. (2009) of the São Paulo variety no F0 height differences are reported
between late narrow and contrastive focus, which are expressed by the H+L* nuclear accent.
These findings may suggest regional differences in the implementation of the contrastive
focus pattern, but further research is needed to clarify this point.
Multiple strategies are used in BP when the focus is early in the utterance. In early narrow‐
focus cases, both falling and rising accents have been reported. Truckenbrodt et al. (2009)
describe the presence of H+L*, L* H and H*+L, with inter‐speaker differences. In Fernandes
(2007b), two main strategies are described (H*+L and L*+H L–) with inter‐ and intra‐speaker
variation. Similar findings are reported in Tenani and Fernandes‐Svartman (2008), also on
the basis of data from the São Paulo variety. In early contrastive focus cases, several pitch
accents have also been reported. Moraes (2008) describes two variants used in Rio de Janeiro
that are differentiated by the presence of the peak on the prenuclear (H+L*) or the nuclear
syllable (H*+L). The second variant is illustrated in Figure 9.4 (panel c). It can be argued that,
at the pragmatic level, there is, in the Rio de Janeiro variety, a difference in meaning between
these two variants, with the prenuclear peak correlating with a “colder” or “professorial”
correction effect, while the peak in the stressed syllable signals a greater involvement of the
speaker.
0.5 1 1.5 2
350
300
250
200
F0
(Hz)
150
100
o pintor cantou uma MANHÃ angelical
L%
H*+L H+L*
H*
4
(c)
0
Figure 9.3  (continued)
148  Sónia Frota and João Antônio de Moraes
Figure 9.4  F0 contour of the utterance Francisco vendeu um Alfa Romeo (‘Francisco sold an Alfa
Romeo’), with narrow focus on ‘Alfa Romeu’ (in response to ‘What car Francisco sold yes-
terday?’), in the panel a, and with contrastive focus on ‘Alfa Romeu’ (in response to the previous
utterance ‘Francisco sold a Porsche’), in the panel b. The utterance O América venceu o Vasco
(‘América has beaten Vasco’), with contrastive focus on ‘América’ (in response to the previous
utterance ‘Fluminense (a soccer team) has beaten Vasco’), in the panel c.
0 0.5 1 1.5 2
300
260
220
180
F0
(Hz)
140
100
Francisco vendeu um Romeo
Alfa
L%
H+L*
4
(a)
0 0.5 1 1.5 2
400
(b)
340
280
220
F0
(Hz)
160
100
Francisco vendeu um ALFA ROMEO
L%
H+L*
4
Intonation in European and Brazilian Portuguese  149
By and large, unlike in EP, in BP pitch accent type is not a robust strategy to signal focus.
BP uses the EP focus accent H*+L, together with the neutral declarative accent H+L* and
with rising accents. In addition, expanded pitch range of H+L* and the presence of a low
tonal boundary marking the right edge of the phonological phrase that contains the focused
element have also been described. However, in BP as in EP, pitch range compression is a
focus marker in statements with an early focus, yielding the reduction of the final pitch
accent in postnuclear position (Fernandes 2007a, b; Truckenbrodt et al. 2009). Postfocal pitch
range compression is illustrated in Figure 9.4 (panel c).
In summary, pitch accent placement and postfocal pitch range compression are the
common prosodic strategies to signal focus in Portuguese. Besides these shared properties,
EP consistently uses a special pitch accent type, whereas BP is characterized by the use of
multiple prosodic strategies.
3.2.  Focus in questions
Prosodic focus in questions has been less studied than prosodic focus in statements. In yes–
no questions, a non‐neutral form of interrogation may arise when some information is
already shared by speaker and listener, and the speaker challenges, doubts, or asks about the
information that is shared. The piece of information that is challenged is the focus of the
question. For example, in the yes–no question Os rapazes compraram lâminas? (“Did the boys
buy slides?”), a focus on lâminas would express the meaning “I would like to know if they
have bought slides and not something different.”
In EP, the nuclear contour of yes–no questions with focus on a particular constituent
shows a pitch accent different from the one found in neutral yes–no questions: in focused
questions the nuclear syllable shows low‐rising pitch, and not the nuclear fall of neutral
yes–no questions (H+L*—see Section 4.2). The nuclear accent of focused questions has been
described as L*+H, and this particular accent occurs on the focused element irrespective of
its early or late position in the sentence. If the focus is final, a boundary fall follows; if the
0 0.5 1 1.5 2
350
300
250
200
F0
(Hz)
150
100
o AMÉRICA venceu o Vasco
L%
H+L*
H*+L
4
(c)
Figure 9.4  (continued)
150  Sónia Frota and João Antônio de Moraes
focus is early, a boundary rise marks the right‐edge of the question (Frota 2002a, 2014).
Figure 9.5 illustrates both a late and an early focus case.
Similarly to focus in statements, there is no deaccenting in the postnuclear contour in
yes–no questions with an early focus, as shown in Figure 9.5 (panel b).
Figure 9.5  F0 contour of the focused yes–no question Os rapazes compraram lâminas? (‘Did
the boys buy slides’?), with the focus on ‘lâminas’, produced by an EP speaker (panel a); F0
contour of the focused yes–no question O galã anda de Porsche? (‘Does the hero drive a
Porsche?’), with the focus on galã, produced by an EP speaker.
0 0.5 1 1.5
350
300
250
200
F0
(Hz)
150
100
os rapazes compraram LÂMINAS
HL%
L*+H
H*
4
(a)
0 0.5 1 1.5
350
310
270
230
F0
(Hz)
190
150
o GALÃ porsche
anda de
LH%
H+L*
L*+H
4
(b)
Intonation in European and Brazilian Portuguese  151
In BP, and differently from EP, the same nuclear melody is found in neutral yes–no ques-
tions and yes–no questions with focus on a particular constituent: an LHL melody. Figure 9.6
shows examples of focused yes–no questions with a late and an early nucleus. Although
there is a general agreement that the nuclear pitch accent is rising, different authors have
proposed different analyses for the accentual rise, namely L+H* (Moraes 2008 for the Rio
variety; Truckenbrodt et al. 2009 for the São Paulo variety) and L*+H (Crespo‐Sendra et al.
2014) for several BP varieties. The different analyses, however, may result from differences in
speech style, in additional pragmatic meanings, or in phonological interpretation of the data.
The accentual rise is followed by a fall, analyzed as an L% boundary. If the focus is early, the
LHL occurs on the nuclear element and at the edge of the utterance (Figure 9.6, panel b). This
suggests that the early nuclear rise is also followed by a low boundary tone, similarly to one
of the possible strategies of prosodic marking of early focus in statements (see Section 3.1).
Finally, the presence of the LHL melody postnuclearly indicates that, as in EP, there is no
deaccenting in yes–no questions with an early focus.
Despite important differences in the melodies of focused yes–no questions, the two vari-
eties of Portuguese employ accentual rises to signal focus and show no postnuclear
deaccenting.
4.  Intonation and utterance types
The distinction between utterance types is among the phrase‐level meanings conveyed by
intonation. Besides the demarcative function of chunking the speech stream into prosodic
units and the culminative function of highlighting important information, the melody of
speech can contrast paradigmatically to signal different sentence types. In Portuguese, these
contrasts are usually achieved by means of the nuclear contour, that is the pitch accent asso-
ciated with the nuclear syllable and any tonal events on subsequent post‐tonic syllable(s). In
this section, we describe the nuclear contours that characterize statements, questions (wh‐
questions and yes–no questions), imperatives (commands and requests), and vocatives
(initial call and insistent call). Together with a basic intonational inventory of pitch accents
and boundary tones, other key features of the intonation system of Portuguese are discussed,
namely the ways the language explores tonal alignment to convey meaning distinctions and
the preferred tune‐text accommodation strategies when the segmental string, by virtue of
not being long enough, imposes pressure on the realization of the tune.
4.1. Statements
In Portuguese, broad focus or neutral statements are characterized by a final fall through the
stressed syllable of the nuclear word, which is represented by an accentual low target imme-
diately preceded by a peak (H+L*). The accentual fall is followed by low pitch at the bottom
of the speaker’s range, or in other words by a low boundary tone (L%). The tune H+L* L% is
thus the nuclear contour of declarative intonation in Portuguese, as illustrated in Figure 9.7
(and also in Figures 9.1 and 9.2 above).
If the nuclear contour does not distinguish between European and Brazilian Portuguese
declarative intonation, the prenuclear stretch sets the two varieties of Portuguese apart. The
difference is clearly seen in longer utterances, and is due to the sparse pitch accentuation that
characterizes EP versus the rich pitch accentuation that characterizes BP already described in
Section 2 above. In EP, as shown in Figure 9.1, the prenuclear contour contains an initial high
tone and an accentless stretch up to the nuclear fall. In BP, by contrast, the prenuclear contour
shows a pitch accent per prosodic word. Non‐final stressed syllables typically exhibit a rising
melody, that has been described either as an L*+H or an L+H* accent (Tenani 2002; Fernandes
152  Sónia Frota and João Antônio de Moraes
2007a, b; Moraes 2008). Considering the variability in melodic shape of the prenuclear
stressed syllables, across and within speakers of the same variety (at least for Rio de Janeiro
and São Paulo), it seems more adequate in the present stage to leave the rising pitch accent
unspecified as to the starred tone (L+H). Further research is needed to clarify the format of
Figure 9.6  F0 contour of the focused yes–no question O professor de matemática foi visitar a
sobrinha? (‘Has the mathematics teacher visited her nephew?’, produced by a BP speaker with
the focus on ‘sobrinha’ (panel a), and with the focus on ‘de matemática’ (panel b).
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3
400
340
280
220
F0
(Hz)
160
100
o matemática
de
professor visitar
foi a SOBRINHA
L%
L+H
H+L*
H*
4
(a)
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5
200
170
140
110
F0
(Hz)
80
50
o professor de foi visitar
MATEMÁTICA a sobrinha
L+H L%
L+H L–
4
3
(b)
Intonation in European and Brazilian Portuguese  153
the prenuclear rising accent in BP. Importantly, BP conforms to the generalization that languages
with a dense pitch accent distribution tend to show the same type of prenuclear pitch accent
(as suggested in Jun 2005). Another feature that distinguishes between BP and EP is the
presence of accentual‐like tonal events in pre‐tonic syllables in BP. These tonal events, usu-
ally in the form of high or rising pitch, have been described in statements (whether neutral
or focalized) and other sentence types (Frota and Vigário 2000; Tenani 2002; Moraes 2003;
Vigário and Fernandes‐Svartman 2010; Frota et al. 2015). The number of syllables to the left
of the stressed syllable and the presence of secondary stress are among the conditions that
may govern the distribution of such accentual tones, but further research is required.
4.2. Questions
In this section, the intonation of two major types of questions is described: wh‐questions and
yes–no questions, as types of pragmatically neutral information‐seeking questions. In
Portuguese, wh‐questions are syntactically and lexically marked. The presence of a question
word identifies the utterance as a question. Question words typically appear at the beginning
of the sentence (although wh‐questions with in‐situ wh‐words are also possible). Here we
will only be concerned with the intonation of wh‐questions with the question word in sen-
tence initial position. Unlike wh‐questions, yes–no questions have the same surface syntactic
properties as declarative sentences and contain no lexical marker. Thus, Portuguese is one
among the large group of languages that signals the distinction between statements and
yes–no questions only by prosodic means.
4.2.1.  Wh‐questions
Descriptions of wh‐question intonation have pointed to similarities between wh‐questions
and statements. In Portuguese, both sentence types show the nuclear contour H+L* L%. In
the case of European Portuguese, the prenuclear contour shows a high plateau similar to that
0 0.5 1 1.5 2
350
300
250
200
F0
(Hz)
150
100
casaram
4
casaram
L%
H+L*
H+L* L%
4
Figure 9.7  F0 contour of the neutral statement Casaram (‘(They got) married”, as in an answer
to “What about John and Mary?”), produced by an EP speaker (left) and a BP speaker (right).
154  Sónia Frota and João Antônio de Moraes
found in statements, as illustrated in Figure 9.8 (panel a). The presence of a higher initial
pitch in questions relative to statements seems to be an optional feature. Another optional
feature is the presence of a final rise after the nuclear pitch accent H+L*, which seems to add
additional politeness to the question (Frota 2002a, 2014). In Brazilian Portuguese, unlike in
European Portuguese, the prenuclear contour seems to distinguish wh‐questions from state-
ments: wh‐questions are characterized by an extra‐high pitch in the wh‐word and a gradual fall
over the following syllables, until the last stressed syllable, as shown in Figure 9.8 (panel b).
Figure 9.8  Panel a: F0 contour of the wh‐question Quem pintou uma manhã âmbar? (‘Who
painted an amber morning?’), in EP; Panel b: F0 contour of the wh‐question Como ela jogava?
(‘How did she (use to) play?’), in BP.
0 0.5 1 1.5
400
340
280
220
F0
(Hz)
160
100
quem
H*
pintou uma manhã âmbar
L%
H+L*
4
(a)
0 0.5 1 1.5
400
340
280
220
F0
(Hz)
160
100
ela
como jogava
L%
H+L*
H+H*
4
(b)
Intonation in European and Brazilian Portuguese  155
This prenuclear accent contrasts with the default rising accent found in statements, and has
been represented as H+H* (Moraes 2008).
Given the high beginning of wh‐questions in BP and the following gradual fall, the pitch
level in the nuclear accent is usually lower than in statements. However, perceptual tests
with resynthesized stimuli in which the nuclear pitch contour of the statement was replaced
by that of the wh‐question and vice‐versa showed that this phonetic difference is not percep-
tually relevant for sentence type identification (Moraes 2008).
4.2.2.  Yes–no questions
Contrary to wh‐questions, the nuclear contour clearly distinguishes yes–no questions from
statements in Portuguese. Besides this common feature, the distinction is conveyed differ-
ently in EP and BP: in EP, interrogation is signaled by the boundary tone; in BP, it is conveyed
by a pitch accent contrast. Illustrative examples of neutral yes–no questions are provided in
Figure 9.9.
In EP, yes–no questions show an obligatory final rise as the distinctive feature that sets
them apart from statement and wh‐question intonation (Frota 2002a, 2014). The properties of
the final fall‐rise of the yes–no question tune show that it consists of an accentual fall (H+L*)
and a boundary rise (LH%), as exemplified in Figure 9.9 (panel a). In BP, by contrast, the
distinctive feature is the nuclear accent, which shows a rise through the final stressed syl-
lable with a late alignment of the F0 peak (Moraes 2008). In BP yes–no questions end with a
rise–fall contour that comprises an accentual rise (L+H) and a L% boundary (Figure  9.9
(panel b)). The accentual rise as been analyzed both as an L+H* accent (Moraes 2008) or an
L*+H accent (Crespo‐Sendra et al. 2014, Frota et al. 2015). The two varieties of Portuguese
thus explore different intonational markers to signal interrogation.
Yes–noquestionintonationprovidesafruitfulgroundtoexaminetune‐textaccommodation
strategies in Portuguese. Given the complex fall–rise (EP) or rise–fall (BP) nuclear contours,
in an utterance that ends in a word with final stress the segmental string has only one syl-
lable available for the realization of the complex tune. Languages are usually divided into
compression languages, i.e., those that compress the tune to fit the segmental string, and
truncation languages, i.e., those that truncate the tune to fit the segmental string (Ladd 2008).
In EP, the fall–rise contour is fully realized due to the extension of the segmental string to
cope with tonal realization (Frota 2000, 2014). This is achieved by extended lengthening of
the nuclear vowel or by insertion of an epenthetic vowel, as in Figure 9.10 (panel a). Therefore,
EP is neither a compression nor a truncation language.
BP seems to show tune–text accommodation strategies different from EP, allowing trun-
cation of the low boundary tone (Moraes and Colamarco 2008; Frota et al. 2015), as illus-
trated in Figure 9.10 (panel b). In yes–no questions in BP, unlike in EP, it is the tune that gets
accommodated to the text.
4.3. Imperatives
In Portuguese, as in most (if not all) Romance languages, imperative sentences are character-
ized by morphosyntactic markers that distinguish them from statements (namely, verb initial
position, use of the second person and imperative mood). In this section, the intonation of
imperative sentences that convey commands and requests is described.
4.3.1. Commands
The intonation of commands exhibits different features in EP and BP. In EP, commands typ-
ically show the nuclear accent of narrow focus declaratives (whether the nucleus is on the
156  Sónia Frota and João Antônio de Moraes
verb or on the object) or of focalized yes–no questions (if the nucleus is on the verb), followed
by a low boundary tone. In other words, commands are characterized by the use of focus
accents (H*+L or L*+H), but crucially not of the H+L* nuclear accent found in neutral state-
ments (Frota 2014). Differently, in BP the nuclear configuration of commands is the same of
neutral statements, that is H+L* L% (Moraes 2008). The typical EP and BP patterns are illus-
trated in Figure 9.11. Given that the most frequent nuclear configurations for commands in
Romance languages are either the broad‐focus or the narrow‐focus statements contours
(Frota and Prieto 2015), BP and EP respectively exemplify these two common trends. In the
Figure 9.9  F0 contour of the question Os rapazes compraram lâminas? (‘Did the boys buy
slides?’), produced by an EP speaker (panel a) and a BP speaker (panel b).
0 0.5 1 1.5
400
350
300
250
F0
(Hz)
200
150
os rapazes compraram lâminas?
LH%
H+L*
H*
4
(a)
0 0.5 1 1.5 2
450
380
310
240
F0
(Hz)
170
100
os rapazes compraram lâminas
L%
L+H
L+H
4
(b)
Intonation in European and Brazilian Portuguese  157
prenuclear stretch, commands are characterized by a high tone on the first stressed syllable
of the utterance.
The intonational properties of commands in Portuguese seem not to distinguish this
­
sentence‐type from statements or wh‐questions (some phonetic traits like peak height could
act as possible clues, but their consistency and efficacy has not been demonstrated). It is the
combination of the particular morphosyntax of these utterances with the intonational
­
features just described that may unambiguously signal the utterance as a command.
Figure 9.10  F0 contour of the yes–no question Ela foi ver o mar? (‘Has she gone to see the sea?’),
produced by an EP speaker (panel a), and a BP speaker (panel b).
0 0.5 1
400
340
280
220
F0
(Hz)
160
100
ela foi ver o mar
LH%
H+L*
H*
4
(a)
0 0.5 1
400
340
280
220
F0
(Hz)
160
100
ela foi ver mar
o
(L%)
L+H
4
(b)
158  Sónia Frota and João Antônio de Moraes
4.3.2. Requests
As in commands, European and Brazilian Portuguese also display different intonational pat-
terns in imperative sentences expressing requests. In EP, the presence of a low nuclear
contour (L* L%) characterizes a request, contrasting sharply with the falling (or rising, in the
case of an early nucleus) pattern found in commands. The prenuclear contour shows an
initial high tone on the first stressed syllable or at the left‐edge of the utterance if no stressed
Figure 9.11  Panel a: F0 contour of the utterance Dá‐me as lâminas (‘Give me the slides’),
produced as a command by an EP speaker; Panel b: F0 contour of the utterance Destranca a
gaveta (‘Unlock the drawer’), produced as a command by a BP speaker.
0 0.5 1
400
340
280
220
F0
(Hz)
160
100
dá-me as LÂMINAS
L%
H*+L
<H*
4
(a)
0 0.5 1.5
1
300
260
220
180
F0
(Hz)
140
100
destranca a GAVETA
L%
H+L*
H*
4
(b)
Intonation in European and Brazilian Portuguese  159
syllable is available (cf. Frota 2014). An example of the intonation contour of requests in EP
is provided in Figure 9.12 (panel a).
In BP, requests show a rise‐fall nuclear configuration that has been analyzed as L+H* L%
(Moraes 2008; Moraes and Colamarco 2008). This circumflex contour, illustrated in Figure 9.12
Figure 9.12  Panel a: F0 contour of the utterance Pinta uma manhã âmbar (‘Paint an amber
morning’), produced as a request by an EP speaker; Panel b: F0 contour of the utterance
Destranca a gaveta (‘Unlock the drawer’), produced as a request by a BP speaker.
0 0.5 1.5 2
1
500
420
340
260
F0
(Hz)
180
100
Pinta uma manhã
L%
L*
H*
4
âmbar
(a)
0 0.5 1.5
1
400
340
280
220
F0
(Hz)
160
100
destranca a gaveta
L%
L+H*
H+H*
4
(b)
160  Sónia Frota and João Antônio de Moraes
(panel b), contrasts with the nuclear fall (H+L* L%) found in commands. The first stressed
syllable displays a prenuclear accentual peak that is usually realized with particularly
high pitch.
The distinction between commands and requests in Portuguese is thus mainly conveyed
by the nuclear pitch accent (falling vs. low nucleus in EP; falling vs. rising nucleus in BP).
Another trait that is common to EP and BP is the lengthening of the nuclear syllable in the
request contour. Importantly, perception experiments have shown that native EP and BP
speakers are able to reliably identify commands and requests on the basis of their prosody
(Frota 2014; Moraes and Rilliard 2014).
4.4. Vocatives
Like in many European languages, calling contours in Portuguese show two main variants:
the vocative chant or sustained‐pitch variant and the low‐call variant (Ladd 2008; Moraes
and Silva 2011; Frota 2014; Frota and Prieto 2015). Interestingly, however, EP and BP use dif-
ferent variants of the calling contour to express similar pragmatic meanings.
4.4.1.  Vocative chant
The typical vocative chant, characterized by high pitch on the nuclear syllable followed by a
step down into the first postnuclear syllable after which the pitch level is sustained, is illus-
trated in Figure 9.13. This contour has been analyzed as consisting of an L+H* !H% melody,
where the leading tone may show variable realization (Frota 2014; Frota et al. 2015). The
chanted melody is accompanied by a characteristic duration pattern whereby the nuclear
syllable, and especially the final syllable, are lengthened.
The prosodic features of the vocative chant block vowel‐reduction patterns that otherwise
are present in the language. In EP, post‐tonic phonetic vowel reduction (or even vowel dele-
tion, as in the case of a word‐final [u]) is blocked and thus the final unstressed vowel is fully
realized, as shown in Figure 9.13 (see also Frota 2014). In BP, post‐tonic final mid vowels are
realized as high vowels. This change in vowel quality is blocked in the vocative chant, and
the final vowel is realized as a mid vowel (i.e., [o] does not become [u], as shown in
Figure 9.13). Furthermore, to comply with both the chanted melody and the lengthening
requirements, the nuclear syllable gets split up when there is no post‐tonic material, as in
João ([ˈʒwɐ̃.ɐ̃w̃]) and Zé ([ˈzɛ.ɛ] “Zé”) shown in Figure 9.14.
It can thus be concluded that the vocative chant contour is part of the intonation system
of Portuguese and is realized with very similar properties in EP and BP. However, the most
common pragmatic uses of this calling contour seem to distinguish between EP and BP. In
European Portuguese, the vocative chant is the calling contour that is typically used in the
context of a greeting call or an initial call. In Brazilian Portuguese, by contrast, the vocative
chant tends to be used in the context of an insistent call or when the person called is far away
and not paying attention. Overall, this pattern in BP is rare and felt as more marked (at least,
in the Rio de Janeiro variety). The most common calling contour in BP is the low call.
4.4.2.  Low call
The low‐call pattern is characterized by a nuclear rise immediately followed by falling pitch,
as shown in Figure 9.15. The difference between the low call and the vocative chant lies on
the boundary tone, and thus the low call melody is analyzed as L+H* L%, again with vari-
able realization of the leading low tone (e.g., Frota 2014, Frota et al. 2015). Furthermore,
unlike in the vocative chant, in the low call the boundary syllable is not lengthened, the
reduction of the final vowel is not blocked (Figure 9.15, panel a), and there is no split up of
the nuclear syllable in the absence of post‐tonic material (Figure 9.15, panel b).
Intonation in European and Brazilian Portuguese  161
Although the formal properties of the low call are strikingly similar in EP and BP, the
functional use of this contour differs: in EP, the low call conveys an insistent and impatient
call; in BP, it is the most frequent calling contour and is commonly used either as a greeting
call or an insistent call (with wider pitch range and higher intensity in the latter case).
0 0.5 1 1.5 2.5 3
2
400
340
280
220
F0
(Hz)
160
100
Maximiliano
4
Maximiliano
L+H* !H%
!H%
L+H*
4
Figure 9.13  F0 contour of the utterance Maximiliano (‘Maximiliano’) produced by an EP
speaker (left) and a BP speaker (right), illustrating the vocative chant.
0 0.5 1 1.5 2
450
380
310
240
F0
(Hz)
170
100
João
4
Zé
!H%
H*
!H%
H*
4
Figure 9.14  The calling contours João (‘John’), produced by an EP speaker (left), and Zé (‘Zé’),
produced by a BP speaker (right), illustrating the vocative chant.
162  Sónia Frota and João Antônio de Moraes
5.  Intonation across varieties of Portuguese
Studies of intonational variation within Portuguese, using a comparable and theoretically
informed framework of analysis, are recent developments in the field of the intonational
phonology of Portuguese (Vigário and Frota 2003; Frota and Vigário 2007; Fernandes 2007b;
Figure 9.15  The calling contours Maximiliano (‘Maximiliano’), produced by an EP speaker (panel a),
and Zé (‘Zé’), produced by a BP speaker (panel b), illustrating the low call.
0 0.5 1 1.5 2
450
(a)
390
330
270
F0
(Hz)
210
150
Maximiliano
L%
H*
4
0 0.5
450
370
290
210
F0
(Hz)
130
50
Zé
L%
H*
4
(b)
Intonation in European and Brazilian Portuguese  163
Vigário and Fernandes‐Svartman 2010; Cruz 2013; Cruz and Frota 2013; Crespo‐Sendra et al.
2014; Frota et al. 2015).
A systematic comparison between varieties of European Portuguese and varieties of
Brazilian Portuguese was conducted in Frota et al. (2015). Three main dimensions of varia-
tion were highlighted: the inventory of nuclear contours, intonational phrasing, and pitch
accent distribution. Variation in the intonational inventory revealed important systemic and
semantic differences across varieties. For example, yes–no questions, as described in
Section 4.2 above, have different contours in the Lisbon variety of European Portuguese and
the Rio de Janeiro variety of Brazilian Portuguese, the two varieties on which the present
chapter is based. Furthermore, the contour of yes–no questions may also differ across
varieties of EP (with southern varieties showing an all‐rising configuration instead of the
fall–rise found in the Lisbon variety) and across varieties of BP (with northern varieties
showing a high tonal boundary that contrasts with the low boundary found in Rio de Janeiro
and other central‐southern varieties). Variation is not only achieved through the presence
and/or use of different contours across varieties. It is also the case that the same contour may
be used with different meanings. A prominent example of this sort of difference are the
meanings expressed by the two variants of the calling contours, described in Section 4.4.
A second dimension of variation concerns intonational phrasing. As noted in Section 3, in
BP a low tonal boundary may mark the right edge of a prosodic domain smaller than the
intonational phrase in utterances with an early focus, whereas in EP only the intonational
phrase shows tonal boundary marking.
The third dimension of variation results from the ways pitch accents are distributed
within utterances. Besides the contrast between the sparse pitch accentuation that character-
izes the Lisbon variety of EP and the rich pitch accentuation that characterizes the Rio de
Janeiro variety of BP (described in Section 2), within EP and BP the distribution of tonal
events may also differ. Within BP, southern varieties tend to show a denser distribution of
tonal events. Within EP, it is the standard (Lisbon) variety that shows a sparser distribution
than other EP varieties.
Alongside the variation, a basic set of properties that characterize the intonational system
of Portuguese were identified in Frota et al. (2015): right‐headed prosodic phrases, absence
of postnuclear deaccenting (see also Section 3 above), and two main types of tonal events,
namely pitch accents and boundary tones, with the prevalence of bitonal accents and simple
boundaries.
6.  Portuguese intonation within Romance
A typological look at the intonation of Portuguese within the Romance space concludes this
chapter. In Portuguese, as in Romance languages in general, forms of grammaticalization of
the three main functions of intonation are found: demarcation or phrasing, highlighting or
prominence, and signaling different utterance types.
Portuguese is similar to most Romance languages in showing intonationally defined con-
stituents that are highly ranked in prosodic structure, namely the intonational phrase (the
exceptions are French and Occitan, which make also use of a lower‐level unit in their phras-
ing patterns, the accentual phrase— cf. Frota and Prieto 2015). However, as described in
Section 2, Brazilian and European Portuguese (the standard variety) crucially differ in the
domain for the distribution of pitch events: BP is like most other Romance languages in hav-
ing a low domain for pitch accentuation (in BP nearly every prosodic word gets a pitch
accent), whereas the standard variety of EP is an exception within Romance languages with
the intonational phrase as the domain for pitch accent distribution. Consequently, in BP
as in most Romance languages, but unlike in EP, the prenuclear contour shows a dense
164  Sónia Frota and João Antônio de Moraes
distribution of pitch events that consists of a regular alternating tonal pattern (Jun 2014;
Frota and Prieto 2015). In EP, by contrast, tonal events occur essentially at the edges of into-
national phrases, which underscores their demarcative function.
In most Romance languages, nuclear prominence is rightmost and Portuguese is no
exception to this general pattern. Portuguese, though, is a language that uses intonation as a
device to highlight important information, together with syntactic or morphological means
(see Section  3). Thus, changes in the placement of the nuclear accent, pitch accent type,
extended pitch range in the focal element, and postfocal pitch range compression can be
used as means to express focus in Portuguese (perhaps in a stronger and more flexible way
in EP than in BP), like in some Romance languages or West Germanic languages.
Intonational marking of sentence types and pragmatic meanings is commonly achieved
by the use of different nuclear configurations in Romance languages (Frota and Prieto 2015).
In Portuguese, this role is mainly taken by pitch accent contrasts, since both EP and BP make
a more restricted use of contrastive tonal boundaries, when compared to languages like
Catalan, Spanish, or Italian (Moraes 2008; Frota et al. 2015). In Portuguese, as in most
Romance languages, bitonal pitch accents are more productive in nuclear configurations
than monotonal accents.
On the one hand, it can be concluded that the intonation system of Portuguese exhibits
the main features that characterize the intonation of Romance languages. On the other hand,
it seems clear that Brazilian Portuguese intonation is more typically Romance‐like than
(Standard) European Portuguese intonation.
Acknowledgements
We are grateful to the research team of the InAPoP project, for preparing the figures in this
chapter. A set of the examples presented here were selected from the InAPoP speech data-
base. The preparation of this chapter was partially funded by the grant PTDC/CLE‐
LIN/119787/2010 (FCT/MEC, Portugal), awarded to the first author.
note
1	 Other work on the intonation of Portuguese within different frameworks of analysis includes
Cruz‐Ferreira 1998, Moraes 1998, and Lucente 2012.
References
Crespo‐Sendra, V., M. Cruz, J. Silva, and S. Frota
(2014). Asking questions across Portuguese
varieties. Talk given at the 6th International
Conference on Tone and Intonation in Europe.
Netherlands: University of Utrecht. http://
labfon.letras.ulisboa.pt/files/Crespo-
Sendraetal_TIE6.pdf, accessed November 2,
2015.
Cruz‐Ferreira, M. (1998). Intonation in European
Portuguese. In D. Hirst and A. Di Cristo (eds.),
Intonation Systems. A Survey of Twenty
Languages. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, pp. 167–178.
Cruz, M. (2013). Prosodic variation in EP:
phrasing, intonation and rhythm in central‐
southern varieties. Ph.D. dissertation,
Universidade de Lisboa.
Cruz, M. and S. Frota (2013). On the relation
between intonational phrasing and pitch
accent distribution. Evidence from European
Intonation in European and Brazilian Portuguese  165
Portuguese varieties. Proceedings of the 14th
Annual Conference of the International Speech
Communication Association (ISCA) – Interspeech
2013, pp. 300–304.
Elordieta, G., S. Frota, and M. Vigário (2005).
Subjects, objects and intonational phrasing in
Spanish and Portuguese. Studia Linguistica, 59
(2/3), pp. 110–143.
Fernandes, F. (2007a). Tonal association in neutral
and subject‐narrow‐focus sentences of
Brazilian Portuguese: a comparison with
European Portuguese. Journal of Portuguese
Linguistics, 5/6 (Special Issue Prosody in
Ibero‐Romance and related languages, ed. by
G. Elordieta and M. Vigário), pp. 91–115.
Fernandes, F. (2007b). Ordem, focalização e
preenchimento em Português: sintaxe e prosódia.
Ph.D. dissertation, State University of
Campinas, Brazil.
Frota, S. (1997). Association, alignment, and
meaning: the tonal sequence HL and focus in
European Portuguese. In A. Botinis, G.
Kouroupetroglou, and G. Carayiannis (eds.),
Intonation: Theory, Models and Applications –
Proceedings of an ESCA Workshop. Athens:
ESCA/University of Athens, pp. 127–130.
Frota, S. (2000). Prosody and Focus in European
Portuguese. Phonological Phrasing and Intonation.
New York: Garland/Routledge.
Frota, S. (2002a). Nuclear falls and rises in
European Portuguese: a phonological analysis
of declarative and question intonation. Probus,
14 (Special issue Intonation in Romance, ed. by
J. Ignacio Hualde), pp. 113–146.
Frota, S. (2002b). Tonal association and target
alignment in European Portuguese nuclear
falls. In C. Gussenhoven and N. Warner (eds.),
Laboratory Phonology 7. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter, pp. 387–418.
Frota, S. (2012). A focus intonational morpheme
in European Portuguese: production and
perception. In G. Elordieta and P. Prieto (eds.),
Prosody and Meaning. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter, pp. 163–196.
Frota, S. (coord.) (2012–2015). InAPoP ‐ Interactive
Atlas of the Prosody of Portuguese (Funded
by FCT, PTDC/CLE‐LIN/119787/2010).
http://labfon.letras.ulisboa.pt/InAPoP/,
accessed November 2, 2015.
Frota, S. (2014). The intonational phonology of
European Portuguese. In S.‐A. Jun (ed.),
Prosodic Typology II. The Phonology of Intonation
and Phrasing. Oxford: Oxford University Press,
pp. 6–42.
Frota, S., M. Cruz, F. Fernandes‐Svartman, G.
Collischonn, A. Fonseca, C. Serra, P. Oliveira,
and M. Vigário (2015). Intonational variation
in Portuguese: European and Brazilian
varieties. In S. Frota and P. Prieto (eds.),
Intonation in Romance. Oxford: Oxford
University Press, pp. 235–283.
Frota, S., M. D’Imperio, G. Elordieta, P. Prieto,
and M. Vigário (2007). The phonetics and
phonology of intonational phrasing in
Romance. In P. Prieto, J. Mascaró, and M.‐J.
Solé (eds.), Prosodic and Segmental Issues in
(Romance) Phonology. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins, pp. 131–153.
Frota, S. and P. Prieto (2015). Intonation in
romance: systemic similarities and differences.
In S. Frota and P. Prieto (eds.), Intonation in
Romance. Oxford: Oxford University Press,
pp. 392–418.
Frota, S. and M. Vigário (2000). Aspectos de
prosódia comparada: ritmo e entoação no PE e
no PB. In R. V. Castro and P. Barbosa (eds.),
Actas do XV Encontro da Associação Portuguesa
de Linguística, Vol. I. Coimbra: APL,
pp. 533–555.
Frota, S. and M. Vigário (2007). Intonational
phrasing in two varieties of European
Portuguese. In T. Riad and C. Gussenhoven
(eds.), Tones and Tunes, Vol. I. Berlin: Mouton
de Gruyter, pp. 265–291.
Gussenhoven, C. (2004). The Phonology of Tone and
Intonation. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Gussenhoven, C. (2007). Intonation. In P. de Lacy
(ed.), The Cambridge Handbook of Phonology.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
pp. 253–280.
Halliday, M. A. K. (1967). Intonation and Grammar
in British English. The Hague: Mouton.
Jun, S.‐A. (ed.) (2005). Prosodic Typology. The
Phonology of Intonation and Phrasing. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Jun, S.‐A. (ed.) (2014). Prosodic Typology II. The
Phonology of Intonation and Phrasing. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Ladd, D. R. (2008). Intonational Phonology. 2nd
edn. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lucente, L. (2012). Aspectos Dinâmicos da Fala e
da Entoação no Português Brasileiro. Ph.D.
dissertation, Universidade de Campinas.
Mata, A. I. (1999). Para o estudo da entoação em fala
espontânea e preparada no Português Europeu.
Ph.D. dissertation, University of Lisbon.
Moraes, J. A. (1998). Intonation in Brazilian
Portuguese. In D. Hirst and A. Di Cristo (eds.),
Intonation Systems: a Survey of Twenty
Languages. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, pp. 179–194.
166  Sónia Frota and João Antônio de Moraes
Moraes, J. A. (2003). Secondary stress in Brazilian
Portuguese: perceptual and acoustical
evidence. Proceedings of the XV International
Congress of Phonetic Sciences, Barcelona,
pp. 2063–2066.
Moraes, J. A. (2006). Variações em torno de tema
e rema. Cadernos do CNLF [Cadernos do IX
Congresso Nacional de Lingüística e Filologia], IX
(17), pp. 279–289.
Moraes, J. A. (2008). The pitch accents in
Brazilian Portuguese: analysis by synthesis. In
P. Barbosa, S. Madureira, and C. Reis (eds.),
Speech Prosody 2008: Fourth Conference on Speech
Prosody, pp. 389–397.
Moraes, J. A. and M. Colamarco (2008).
Accommodation of intonational patterns in
Brazilian Portuguese short utterances:
compression or truncation? In L. Bisol and
C. Brescancini (eds.), Contemporary Phonology in
Brazil. Cambridge: Cambridge Scholars, pp. 2–21.
Moraes, J. A. and A. Rilliard (2014). Illocution,
attitudes and prosody: A multimodal analysis.
In T. Raso and H. Mello (eds.), Spoken Corpora
and Linguistic Studies. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins, pp. 233–270.
Moraes, J. A. and H. Silva (2011). A entoação de
vocativos e apostos no Português do Brasil. In
L. Couto and C. R. Lopes (eds.), As Formas de
Tratamento em Português e em Espanhol; variação,
mudança e funções conversacionais. Niterói:
Editora da Universidade Federal Fluminense,
pp. 103–124.
Nespor, M. and I. Vogel (2007). Prosodic Phonology,
2nd edn. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Serra, C. (2009). Realização e percepção de
fronteiras prosódicas no Português do Brasil:
Fala espontânea e leitura. Ph.D. dissertation,
Federal University of Rio de Janeiro.
Tenani, L. E. (2002). Domínios prosódicos no
Português do Brasil: implicações para a
prosódia e para a aplicação de processos
fonológicos. Ph.D. dissertation, State
University of Campinas.
Tenani, L. E. and F. Fernandes‐Svartman (2008).
Prosodic phrasing and intonation in neutral
and subject‐narrow‐focus sentences of Brazilian
Portuguese. Speech Prosody 2008: Fourth
Conference on Speech Prosody, pp. 445–448.
Truckenbrodt, H., F. Sandalo, and M. B. Abaurre
(2009). Elements of Brazilian Portuguese
intonation. Journal of Portuguese Linguistics, 8,
pp. 75–114.
Viana, M. C. (1987). Para a síntese da entoação do
Português. Assistant researcher dissertation,
CLUL‐INIC.
Vigário, M. (1998). Aspectos da Prosódia do
Português Europeu: estruturas com advérbio de
exclusão e negação frásica. Braga: CEHUM.
Vigário, M. and F. Fernandes‐Svartman (2010).
A atribuição de acentos tonais em
compostos no Português do Brasil. In A. M.
Brito, F. Silva, J. Veloso, and A. Fiéis (eds.),
Textos Seleccionados – XXV Encontro da
Associação Portuguesa de Linguística, Porto:
Associação Portuguesa de Linguística,
pp. 769–786.
Vigário, M. and S. Frota (2003). The intonation of
Standard and Northern European Portuguese:
a comparative intonational phonology
approach. Journal of Portuguese Linguistics, 2 (2)
(Special issue Portuguese Phonology ed. by
Wetzels), pp. 115–137.
Wagner, M. and D. Watson (2010). Experimental
and theoretical advances in prosody: A review.
Language and Cognitive Processes, 25 (7/8/9),
pp. 905–945.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
Portuguese shares many morphological features with other Romance languages, such as
Castilian, Italian, or French, but it also displays properties that set it apart from the other
members of the Romance family. In this chapter, we will privilege the latter aspects. The resem-
blance with other romance languages and, at the same time, the specificity of Portuguese
morphology further echoes in the comparison of different national varieties, such as the European
(henceforth EP) and Brazilian Portuguese (henceforth BP) subsystems.
Affixation and compounding are the main word‐formation processes in Portuguese.1
We will present an overview of their main morphological and phonological properties and
also some border issues, indicating, when appropriate, contrasts between EP and BP (with
reference to the dialects of Lisbon and southern Brazilian variants). In addition, we will
discuss some types of word formation not addressed by the grammatical tradition. While
influential traditional studies such as Mattoso Câmara (1971) and Basílio (1987), for BP, or
Carvalho (1967) and Rio‐Torto (1998), for EP, are discussed where appropriate, the discussion
in this chapter is especially based on Villalva (1994), Gonçalves (2004), Gonçalves (2012), and
Villalva and Silvestre (2014).
In our exposition of the Portuguese word‐formation processes, we assume that words
(W), as morphological structures, are projections of the root (R), which is morphologically
specified by a thematic constituent2
(TC) that generates a stem (S). The stem is then morpho-
syntactically (MSS) specified.3
This is the underlying morphological structure of all simple
words:
(1)  [[[X]r
[Y]tc
]s
[Z]mss
]w
Roots are lexical units, specified for a large number of features (their phonological repre-
sentation and morphological, syntactic and semantic features, among others). One of these
features concerns the thematic class to which they belong. Verbs are assigned to a conjugation
class (first, second or third), a distinction that has no syntactic or semantic consequences—it
is relevant merely for inflection (the phonetics are of the EP variant):
(2) 1st C 2nd C 3rd C
infinitive canˈt[a]r “to sing” beˈb[e]r “to drink” fuˈg[i]r “to run away”
pres.ind. 3rds. ˈcant[ɐ] ˈbeb[ɨ] ˈfog[ɨ]
pres.subj.1st/3rd s.  ˈcant[ɨ] ˈbeb[ɐ] ˈfuj[ɐ]
past participle canˈt[a]do beˈb[i]do fuˈg[i]do
The Phonology and Morphology
of Word Formation
Alina Villalva and Carlos
Alexandre Gonçalves
10
168  Alina Villalva and Carlos Alexandre Gonçalves
Although this lexically determined distinction is not much more than a remnant of the
Latin conjugation system, derivation is still sensitive to it. Deverbal suffixes that select verb
stems specify a subclass of stems: infinitive stem (IST), present stem (PRST) and past stem
(PTST). First conjugation verbs neutralize this distinction, but the thematic vowel of second
and third conjugation inflected forms has different phonetic outputs:
(3) 1st C 2nd C 3rd C
IST apresenˈt[a]r “to present” absolˈv[e]r “to absolve” defiˈn[i]r “to define”
PRST apreˈsent[ɐ] “it presents” abˈsolv[ɨ] “it absolves” deˈfin[ɨ] “it defines”
PTST apresenˈt[a]do “presented” absolˈv[i]do “absolved” defiˈn[i]do “defined”
Deverbal suffixes are sensitive to this subclass feature:
(4) 1st C 2nd C 3rd C
IST adoˈç[ɐ]nte “sweetener” requeˈr[e]nte “petitioner” peˈd[i]nte “beggar”
PRST ignoˈr[ɐ]ncia “ignorance” inciˈd[e]ncia “incidence” emerˈg[e]ncia “emergency”
PTST dedic[ɐ]ˈção “dedication” absolv[i]ˈção “absolving” defin[i]ˈção “definition”
Nouns and adjectives split over a larger number of classes, also lexically determined,
which are related to the nature of the thematic vowel and to the gender value.4
Even
though final –o([u]) and final –a([ɐ]) have long been identified as gender morphemes, it is
easy to conclude that they do not have that status: –o ending words are typically mascu-
line, but masculine nouns may have many other endings. The same occurs with –a ending
words and feminine. In the following table, all possibilities are registered for nouns:
(5) Masculine Feminine Non‐Specified
‐o([u]) caˈval[u](s) “horse(s)” ˈtrib[u](s) “tribe(s)” solˈdad[u](s) “soldier(s)”
‐a ([ɐ]) proˈfet[ɐ](s) “prophet(s)” ˈvac[ɐ](s) “cow(s)” aˈtlet[ɐ](s) “athlete(s)”
‐e([ɨ, I]) EP: ˈpent[ɨ](s)
BP:ˈpent[I](s) “comb(s)”
EP: ˈpel[ɨ](s)
BP: ˈpel[I](s) “skin(s)”
EP: aˈgent[ɨ](s)
BP: aˈgent[I](s) “agent(s)”
‐Ø ([]/[ɨ, I]) EP: traˈtor[]([ɨ]s)
BP: tratoˈr[]([I]s) “tractor(s)”
EP: ˈpaz[]([ɨ]s)
BP: ˈpaz[](I]s) “peace(s)”
fisˈca[l]([j]s)
fisˈca[w]([j]s) “supervisor(s)”
athematic (╤) ˈpau(s) “stick(s)” ˈpá(s) “shovel(s)” refém(s) “hostage(s)”
The difference between ‐o stems and ‐a stems is quite obvious: there is a final [u] and a
final [ɐ], respectively in the words where they are present. The class of –e stems features the
thematic index [ɨ] in EP, [I] in BP. The class of –Ø stems features a thematic index that triggers
a high vowel ([ɨ] in EP, [I] in BP) with no phonetic realization in final position (singular),
except for [l] ending roots. These two classes are very similar and they might be considered
as one if all [l], [r] or [s] ending roots were –Ø stems, but this is not the case (ˈpele/paˈpel
“skin/paper”; folˈclore/ˈflor “folklore/flower”; ˈgás/ˈgaze “gas/gauze”).In EP, the end-
ings of words such as ˈpele and paˈpel are phonetically very similar in the singular ([ˈpɛl]/
[pɐˈpɛl]), but they differ in the plural ([ˈpɛlɨ∫]/[pɐˈpɛj∫]). The difference is easier to under-
stand if these two words are assigned to different thematic classes. If their underlying
representation is /pɛl+ɨ/ and /pɐpɛl+/, then the plural of /pɐpɛl+/ can be obtained by
semi‐vocalization of the final consonant of the root, but only if it is a –Ø root. Notice that
orthography is irrelevant: the majority of –e roots ends in a graphic <e>, but words such as
aval (pl. avales) “approval” or fel (pl. feles) “gall” are also –e stems. Athematic stems are easier
to recognize: they have neither a thematic index nor a trace of one.
The status of thematic classes is quite peculiar. They have no syntactic or semantic
­
relevance, and, from a phonological point of view, thematic indices (i.e. ‐a, ‐o, ‐e) are
The Phonology and Morphology of Word Formation  169
uninteresting elements, since they are always unstressed vowels that show up at the right
border of the word. Yet, thematic classes are morphologically relevant, both for inflection5
and for word formation. As we will see below, the choice of roots, stems (including subtypes
of stems for deverbal derivation) or words is part of the selectional constraints of affixes.
Complex words expand the structure in (1). In Portuguese, most word‐formation
processes occur in the root domain, and they may involve a root and an affix or several roots.
Processes involving a single root usually attach an affix, which can be a morphological predi-
cator (commonly known as derivational suffix) or a morphological modifier (a prefix or an
evaluative suffix). Those involving more than one root are morphological compounding
processes. This structural distinction requires a neat demarcation of roots and affixes. It also
requires the identification of the grammatical roles for word constituents.
1. Affixation
Affixation is traditionally described as involving suffixation (which is predominant in
Portuguese), or prefixation,6
but this topological description needs to be complemented by a
grammatical analysis. In fact, word‐formation affixes can be predicators, which means that
they are the head of the structure they generate, or modifiers. In Portuguese, all predicators
are suffixes (= derivational suffixes), all prefixes are modifiers, and some suffixes (= evalu-
ative suffixes) are modifiers.
1.1.  Derivational suffixation
In Portuguese, derived words are generated on the basis of derivational suffixes according
to their selectional and inherent properties. Selectional properties are the set of constraints
involving the base form. Base forms can be roots (adjective roots, as in (6a); noun roots, as in
(6b); verb roots, as in (6c)), stems (only verb stems are available, as in (6d–f)) or words (just
adjectives, as in (6g)). Inherent properties define the features of the output, which is always
a root that will be projected into a stem, first, and then to a word: derived forms can be
adjective, adverb, noun, or verb roots:
(6) a. [humanist]adjr
→  [[[humaˈnístic]adjr
o]adjs
]adj
“humanist→humanistic”
[ingenu]adjr
→ [[[ingenuiˈdad]nr
e]ns
]n
“naïve→naiveté”
[fragil]adjr
→ [[[fragiliˈz]vr
a]vs
r]v
“fragile→to weaken”
b. [gost]nr
→ [[[gosˈtos]adjr
o]adjs
]adj
“taste→tasty”
[arroz]nr
→ [[[arroˈzal]nr
]ns
]n
“rice→rice field”
[frut]nr
→ [[[frutifiˈc]vr
a]vs
r]v
“fruit→to fructify”
c. [mand]vr
→ [[[manˈdão]nr
]ns
]n
/[[[manˈdon]nr
]ans
]n
  “to boss→bossy”
d. [dança]vsinf
→ [[[danˈçant]adjr
e]adjs
]adj
“to dance→dancing”
[grava]vsinf
→ [[[gravaˈdor]nr
]ns
]n
“to engrave→engraver”
e. [concorda]vspres
→ [[[concorˈdânci]nr
a]ns
]n
“to agree→agreement”
f. [procura]vspast
→ [[[procuˈrável]adjr
]adjs
]adj
“to search→searchable”
[separa]vspast
→ [[[separaˈção]nr
]ns
]n
“to separate→separation”
g. [urgente]adj
→ [[[urˈgenteˈment]advr
e]advs
]adv
“urgent→urgently”
Selectional properties vary from suffix to suffix. They can make use of, at least, phonological/
prosodic properties of the base (see below the allomorphy of –ez ~ –eza, for instance),
syntactic properties (especially for deverbal suffixes that require information on the argument
structure of the base verb) and semantic properties (the collective noun forming suffix ‐agem
selects the root of count nouns: ˈfolha→foˈlhagem“leaf→foliage”.
170  Alina Villalva and Carlos Alexandre Gonçalves
Besides defining the syntactic category of the output, derivational suffixes also participate
in broad semantic categories. The existence of competing suffixes occurs inside these
categories:
(7) causative verbs:
[[escur]adjr
eˈc]vr
erv
“to darken”
[[agil]adjr
iˈz]vr
arv
“to hasten”
[[solid]adjr
ifiˈc]vr
arv
  “to solidify”
action nouns:
[[apresenta]vs
ˈção]nr
“presentation”
[[esqueci]vs
ˈment]nr
o “forgetfulness”
[[toleˈrâ]vs
nci]nr
a “tolerance”
subject nouns:
[[apresenta]vs
ˈdor]nr
    “presenter”
[[represenˈta]vs
nt]nr
e “representative”
Derivational processes available in EP and BP are virtually identical: they share the same
set of suffixes, and their behavior is quite similar. There is, however, a margin of contrasts
that is worth noting. It is quite common to find different suffixes competing within the same
morphosemantic category:
(8) EP: desenhaˈdor/BP: deseˈnhista “designer”
EP: fumaˈdor/BP: fuˈmante “smoker”
Thus, derived words in EP and BP are derived autonomously, yielding different results
within a given morphosemantic category. Another distinction is set by the mutation of some
affixes—for instance, in BP, the suffix –d(a), in the expression X–da ((dar uma) olhada “to take
a quick look”), forms brief action nouns. No such suffix exists in EP, although there is a
semantically equivalent suffix, which is –dela ((dar uma) olhadela), not used in BP.
1.2. Parasynthesis
Parasynthesis is a particular case of derivation, usually defined as a process of simultaneous
prefixation and suffixation. However, considering that sometimes no suffix intervenes and that
the prefix is an expletive element, this type of derivation shows a striking resemblance with
suffixation or conversion, except for the fact that it requires the presence of the expletive prefix:
(9) a.  [prefix[[ADJR]suffix]vr
]vr
[[[a[[mol]adjr
eˈc]vr
]vr
[e]]vs
[r]]v
“to soften”
[[[en[[rouqu]adjr
eˈc]vr
]vr
[e]]vs
[r]]v
  “to hoarsen”
[prefix[[ADJR]]vr
]vr
[[[a[[celeˈr]adjr
]vr
]vr
[a]]vs
[r]]v
“to accelerate”
[[[en[[riˈj]adjr
]vr
]vr
[a]]vs
[r]]v
“to harden”
b. [prefix[[NR]suffix]vr
]vr
[[[a[[pedr]nr
eˈj]vr
]vr
[a]]vs
[r]]v
	 “to stone”
[[[en[[raiv]nr
eˈc]vr
]vr
[e]]vs
[r]]v
	 “to enrage”
[prefix[[NR]]vr
]vr
[[[a[[carici]nr
]vr
]vr
[ˈa]]vs
[r]]v
	 “to caress”
[[[en[[garraˈf]nr
]vr
]vr
[a]]vs
[r]]v
	 “to bottle”
The Phonology and Morphology of Word Formation  171
Most parasynthetic forms are deadjectival (10a) or denominal verbs (10b). There are some
parasynthetic adjectives too (10c):
(10)  a.  es[[clar]adjr
eˈc]vr
er “to clarify”
b. a[[camˈp]nr
]vr
ar “to camp”
c. a[[laranˈj]nr
ad]adjr
o “orangy”
1.3. Conversion
Cases traditionally treated as back‐formation and “improper” derivation fit in this category,
since they both involve the recategorization of a base, without the intervention of affixes.
Conversion processes are not typical morphological processes, although they have several
features in common with derivational suffixation. We will mention three:
Conversion can operate on different morphological categories, namely roots (11a) and
fully inflected words (11b):
(11) a. [ataˈc]vr
ar→
[aˈtaqu]nr
e “to attack→attack”
b. [[[oˈlh]vr
a]vs
r]vinf→
[oˈlhar]nr
(es) “to see→look”
Conversion generates words that belong to the same morphosemantic classes as those that
are formed by derivation (cf. (7), above):
(12) causative verbs:	[limˈp]adjr
]vr
ar “to clean”
action nouns:	 [aˈtaqu]vr
]nr
e “attack”
subject nouns:	 [peˈnetra]vpi3rdsg
]ns
“intruder”
Conversion and derivation are usually in complementary distribution:7
(13) misˈtura vs. *misturaˈção “mix”
*ˈgrava vs. gravaˈção “recording”
melhoˈrar vs. *melhorifiˈcar “to improve”
*puˈrar vs. purifiˈcar “to purify”
2. Modification
Many affixation processes are of a modification kind. Morphological modifiers are adjuncts
that copy grammatical features from the base they are added to and they just change its
semantic value. This category includes all evaluative suffixation and all prefixation.
2.1.  Evaluative suffixation
Evaluative suffixation is one of the most interesting domains in Portuguese word formation.
Since it is a resource primarily used in spoken language, it is quite superficially studied in
schools and no standardization is available in reference grammars. Therefore, we can see the
true dynamics of these word‐formation processes.
Evaluative modifiers change the base they are added to according to a range of semantic
features related to different value judgments, the true content of which depends on pragmatic
circumstances.8
Evaluative modification applies almost unrestrictedly: these suffixes can
172  Alina Villalva and Carlos Alexandre Gonçalves
adjoin to all kinds of bases, either adjectival (14a), nominal (14b), adverbial bases (14c), or
even to interjections (14d):
(14) a. [[[maˈgr]inh]o/a] “thin+EVAL”
b. [[[profeˈssor]ˈzinh]o] “teacher+EVAL”
c. [[[ˈced]inh]o] “early+EVAL”
d. [[[adeuˈs]inh]o] “goodbye+EVAL”
Among the existing evaluative suffixes, the linguistic variants under consideration
prefer –inho(a) and –zinho(a).9
In EP, –inho and –zinho are not allomorphs of a single
suffix—they belong to two different series, with distinctive features: vowel‐initial
suffixes (henceforth V‐evaluatives) are adjoined to roots; [z]‐initial suffixes (henceforth
Z‐evaluatives) are adjoined to words. The distribution of these two sets of competing
suffixes is dialect‐specific and it is also prone to speaker’s preference, but some grammatical
constraints also apply.10
In the two varieties, the most obvious constraint is the impossibility to adjoin V‐evaluative
suffixes to athematic bases (i.e. roots that have identical forms for the root, the stem and
the singular word ([[[café]nr
[]ti
]ns
[]mss
]n
“coffee”). Athematic roots only allow for Z‐evaluative
suffixation, displaying, in the suffix, the unmarked thematic index (=ti) that agrees with
the gender of the base (15a). This is also the case for athematic roots with a stressless final
vowel (15b):
(15) a. [[[caˈfé]msc
ˈzinh][o]ti
]msc
*cafeˈinho “coffee+EVAL”
[[[irˈmã]fem
ˈzinh][a]ti
]fem
*irmãˈinha “sister+EVAL”
b. [[[ˈtáxi]msc
ˈzinh][o]ti
]msc
*táˈxinho “taxi+EVAL”
In some dialects of BP, ˈmãeˈzinha (“mother+EVAL”) may co‐occur with mãˈinha (or
ˈpaiˈzinho and paˈinho “father+EVAL+”), for instance. This may indicate that the constraint
that holds for EP does not hold for some dialects of BP. In southern dialects of PB, these
instances are felt as typical northeastern formations.
–Ø roots also show a speaker’s preference for Z‐evaluative suffixation (16a), which seems
to indicate that there is a large proximity between –Ø roots and athematic roots. This
proximity is eventually higher in BP than in EP (16b), which suggests that [l]‐final roots in BP
have become athematic.
(16) a. [[ˈdor]ˈzinha]    */?
[[doˈr]inha] “pain+EVAL”
[[ˈsal]ˈzinho]     */?
[[saˈl]inho] “salt+EVAL”
b. BP: *[[aneˈl]inho]/[[aˈnel]ˈzinho] “ring+EVAL”
EP: [[aneˈl]inho]/[[aˈnel]ˈzinho]
In EP, we often find cases of –Ø roots in free variation, which clearly illustrate that
V‐evaluative and Z‐evaluative suffixes attach to different bases: V‐evaluatives select a root;
Z‐evaluatives select a word. Notice that the stressed vowel of the base gets two different
phonetic realizations depending on the choice of the suffix:11
(17) caracoˈlinho/caraˈcolˈzinho “snail+EVAL”
casaˈlinho/caˈsalˈzinho “couple+EVAL”
In the case of the –e roots, chances for an equivalent distribution are even higher. It is
possible to find more instances of V‐evaluative and Z‐evaluative suffixation that select the
The Phonology and Morphology of Word Formation  173
same bases, in both varieties of Portuguese, as it is possible to find cases of apparently
random acceptance, or non‐acceptance of both, or just of one of them:
(18) biˈfinho
peiˈxinho
ˈbifeˈzinho
ˈpeixeˈzinho
“steak+EVAL”
“fish+EVAL”
chaˈvinha ˈchaveˈzinha “key+EVAL”
In ‐a and –o roots, distribution is also varied. Although it is not possible to find strict criteria,
data show that the preference for V‐evaluative suffixes lies in shorter highly frequent bases;
the preference for Z‐evaluative suffixes comes from longer and less frequent bases (which
include most proparoxytonic words):
(19) a. boˈquinha rosˈtinho
ˈbocaˈzinha ˈrostoˈzinho
“mouth+EVAL” “face+EVAL”
caˈrinha deˈdinho
?
ˈcaraˈzinha ?
ˈdedoˈzinho
“face+EVAL” “finger+EVAL”
b. ?
pupiˈlinha pescoˈcinho
puˈpilaˈzinha ?
pesˈcoçoˈzinho
“pupil+EVAL” “neck+EVAL”
c. ?
sobranceˈlhinha ?
crocodiˈlinho
sobranˈcelhaˈzinha crocoˈdiloˈzinho
“eyebrow+EVAL” “crocodile+EVAL”
d. ?
mediˈquinho ?
celuˈlinha
ˈmedicoˈzinho ˈcelulaˈzinha
“doctor+EVAL” “cell+EVAL”
Preference for Z‐evaluative suffixation12
may be explained by the fact that Z‐evaluative
suffixes facilitate the recognition of the base to which they associate. Notice that Z‐evaluative
suffixation triggers gender and number agreement between the evaluative word and
the base word, which can be clearly demonstrated when the base word has allomorphic
variation for number inflection (20a). When the base is an –a stem masculine root, or an ‐o stem
feminine root, Z‐evaluative suffixation triggers agreement in gender with the base and
exhibits the unmarked thematic vowel for gender: –o for the masculine and –a for the feminine.
V‐evaluative suffixation keeps the thematic vowel of the base (20b). Consequently, when the
base is an ‐a stem root non‐specified for gender, Z‐evaluatives disambiguate the gender
value, whereas V‐evaluatives do not (20c):
(20) a. [[[[caraˈcol]sg
ˈzinh]o]]sg
[[[[caraˈcoi]pl
ˈzinh]o]s]pl
[[[[ˈcão]sg
ˈzinh]o]]sg
[[[[ˈcãe]pl
ˈzinh]o]s]pl
b. [[[sisˈtema]msc
ˈzinh]o]msc
[[[sisteˈm]msc
inh]a]msc
“system+EVAL”
[[[ˈtribo]fem
ˈzinh]a]fem
[[[triˈb]fem
inh]o]fem
“tribe+EVAL”
c. [[[arˈtista]msc/fem
ˈzinh]o]msc
[[[artisˈt]msc/fem
inh]a]msc/fem
“artist+EVAL”
[[[arˈtista]msc/fem
ˈzinh]a]fem
2.2. Clipping
Clipping (or truncation) is quite productive in BP. It is a mechanism by which a word is
shortened without its lexical meaning being affected, but with frequent stylistic or pragmatic
nuances, which is why it is treated as a case of modification. It eliminates phonological
174  Alina Villalva and Carlos Alexandre Gonçalves
material at the right periphery of the base. Clippings may (21a) or may not (21b, 21c) affect
morphological constituents:
(21) a. proleˈtário >> proˈleta “proletarian”
comuˈnista coˈmuna “communist”
b. vagaˈbunda vaˈgaba “slut”
cerˈveja ˈcerva “beer”
c. bijuteˈria biˈju “jewelry”
refrigeˈrante reˈfri “soft drink”
The patterns exemplified above require access to morphological and prosodic information.
In (21a), we find words formed by a root base and the thematic index –a, a constituent unre-
lated to the gender of the base. In (21b), the base root is not fully present in the truncated
form, but, as in (21a), the clippings are stressed on the penultimate syllable, always forming
a trochee at the right edge of the shortened form. In these two groups, the affixation of the
thematic index (–a) always takes place, but not in (21c). Here, the two first syllables of the
base are kept, which form an iambic foot.
Bauer (1988: 33) questions the morphological status of such clippings because
the excluded parts are not clearly morphological. According to Fandrych (2008: 116),
clipping is unquestionably a process of word formation: the shortening “changes
records or styles compared to their complete counterparts.” This is indeed what is
observed in the examples (21a–b), the most common cases. This pattern of clipping can
also affect compounds:13
(22) ˈSão Gonˈç(alo)a “a district of Rio de Janeiro”
ˈgrã‐ˈf(ino)a “snobbish”
ˈfree‐ˈl(ancer)a “freelancer”
2.3. Prefixation
Like evaluative suffixes, modifiers that are left‐adjoined to a head do not interfere with the
grammatical properties of the words in which they occur:
(23) ˈapto→
[iˈn]apto “fit→unfit”
faˈzer→
[des]faˈzer “do→undo”
maˈrido→
[ex]maˈrido “husband→ex‐husband”
The range of semantic values expressed by prefixes is wider than for evaluative suffixes.
Prefixation can also be evaluative ([ˈsuper]interesˈsante “super‐interesting,” [ˈmicro]computaˈ
dor “microcomputer”), but there are prefixes of negation ([in]eˈquívoco “unequivocal”),
opposition ([des]monˈtar “dismount”), repetition ([re]enconˈtrar “meet again”) and spatial
([ˈsub]ˈsolo “subsoil”) or temporal location ([ˈpós]operaˈtório “post‐surgery”).
Regardless of the semantic diversity found amongst prefixes, it is important to remark
that the set of units usually called prefixes may have very different properties. The heteroge-
neity of these units can be analyzed according to a number of criteria showing that some
behave like typical affixes, while others look like independent roots.14
The first criterion is related to the category of the base to which they may attach: some
prefixes attach exclusively to roots or stems (24a), while others, especially those that can be
coordinated with other prefixes, attach to words or even to phrases (24b).
The Phonology and Morphology of Word Formation  175
(24) a. [[[in][apt]]iˈdão] “inaptitude”
[[[des][arm]a]]ˈmento] “disarmament”
[[[re][aprecia]]ˈção] “re‐appreciation”
b. [[ˈpré][camˈpanha]] “pre‐campaign”
[[ˈpré][camˈpanha eleitoˈral]] “pre‐electoral campaign”
[[ˈpré e ˈpós][camˈpanha (eleitoˈral)]] “pre‐ and post‐(electoral) campaign”
Prefixes that attach to roots or stems (typically in–, des– and re–) are unstressed units;
those that adjoin to words or syntactic expressions (such as pós–, pré–, ex–, and sub–) are
independent prosodic words (cf. Schwindt 2000). The latter type is formed by paroxytones
with two syllables (ˈcontra–, anˈti–, ˈmega–, and ˈsuper–) or stressed monosyllables (ˈpró–,
ˈex–, and ˈpré–).
One issue that must be raised in relation to this distinction concerns prefixes that have
stressed and unstressed variants, like ˈpré–/pre– or ˈpós–/pos–. For instance, in (25a) the
prefix is unstressed ([prɨ] in EP, [pre] in BP); in (25b) the prefix is stressed ([ˈprɛ] in both
varieties):
(25) a. [[pre][ˈtexto]] “excuse”
[[pre][sˈsentir]] “to sense”
b. [[ˈpré][proˈjeto]] “pre‐project”
[[ˈpré][daˈtar]] “to predate”
There is an obvious difference of formal and semantic transparency between words in
(25a) and those in (25b): the former are opaque and can be seen as genuine cases of
lexicalization—preˈtexto, for example, means “excuse,” which is not related to texto (“text”)
nor to a temporal location value of the prefix. Thus, stressed prefixes become unstressed
when the words get lexicalized: either for semantic reasons (presˈsentir “to sense”) or for
structural reasons, when the prefix is adjoined to a neoclassical bound root (premaˈturo
“premature”).
A second criterion that is relevant to isolate prefixes concerns their (in)existence as auton-
omous words. Many of these forms are derived from Greek or Latin prepositions and adverbs,
which have undergone a process of grammaticalization already in the old languages. In some
cases, these prefixes only occur in lexicalized words ([a]ssuˈmir “to assume,” [con]suˈmir “to
consume,” [pre]suˈmir “to presume,” [re]suˈmir, “to summarize”) and therefore their historical
origin is irrelevant for their synchronic classification.
However, Portuguese follows the model of the classical languages by using prepositions
and adverbs to build modified words:
(26) [[ˈante][ˈcâmara]] “antechamber”
[[sem][aˈbrigo]]/[[sem][ˈteto]] “homeless”
[[ˈnão][agresˈsão]] “non‐aggression”
Also available for this type of modification are neoclassical forms, which may have served
as prefixes in old languages, and which are again available in contemporary Portuguese (as
in many other modern languages):
(27) a. [[ˈhiper][aˈtivo]] “hyperactive”
[[ˈsobre][doˈtado]] “overly gifted”
b. [[ˈhemi][atroˈfia]] “semi‐atrophy”
[[ˈmeio][irˈmão]] “half‐brother”
176  Alina Villalva and Carlos Alexandre Gonçalves
The third criterion distinguishes forms that can only occur as left adjuncts from those that
can themselves be the head of a complex word. The first class are prefixes (28a), the second
one are roots (28b):
(28) a. [[ˈmega][manifestaˈção]] “huge demonstration”
b. [[[pat][[o][loˈg]]]ia] “pathology”
[[[cardi][[o][paˈt]]]ia] “heart disease”
Thus, both unstressed forms adjoined to roots or stems and stressed forms adjoined to words
or phrases have a similar behavior, which raises the question of whether it is possible to find
independent grammatical evidence for their different categorization.
2.4.  Productive phonology in affixation
Root‐ and stem‐based derived and modified words behave like simple words with respect to
stress assignment: they always form a single stress domain. Consequently, in these cases,
there is an isomorphism between morphological and prosodic words. Looking at the effects
of unstressed vowel reduction processes in EP and BP helps to sustain this claim:
In EP, all low and mid vowels, before and after stressed syllables, undergo reduction and
centralization:
(29) ˈv[ɛ]la v[ɨ]ˈleiro “sail/sailboat”
ˈb[e]rço b[ɨ]rˈçário “cradle/nursery”
ˈb[a]rco b[ɐ]rˈqueiro “boat/boatman”
ˈs[ɔ]l s[u]ˈlar “sun/solar”
In BP, only mid vowels are concerned: lower mid vowels of the base alternate with their
corresponding upper mid vowels when they occur in a pre‐stress position:
(30) ˈp[ɔ]rta p[o]rˈteiro/p[o]rtaˈria “door/doorman/hallway”
ˈv[ɛ]la v[e]ˈleiro/v[e]leˈjar “sail/sailboat/to sail”
Root based evaluative words behave differently. In EP, mid vowels and low central vowels
are always reduced (31a); palatal and velar low vowels are preferably not reduced, although
reduction may occur (31b):
(31) a. ˈd[e]do *d[e]ˈdinho/ d[ɨ]ˈdinho “finger(+EVAL)”
ˈb[o]lo *b[o]ˈlinho/ b[u]ˈlinho “cake(+EVAL)”
ˈc[a]sa *c[a]ˈsinha c[ɐ]ˈsinha “house(+EVAL)”
b. ˈf[ɛ]sta f[ɛ]sˈtinha f[ɨ]sˈtinha “party(+EVAL)”
ˈb[ɔ]la b[ɔ]ˈlinha ?
b[u]ˈlinha “ball(+EVAL)”
In evaluative words all vowels keep their underlying quality in BP. Compare the mid
vowel quality of the examples below with their correspondents in derived words:
(32) ˈp[ɔ]rta p[ɔ]rˈtinha “door(+EVAL)”
p[o]rˈteiro/p[o]rtaˈria “doorman/hallway”
ˈv[ɛ]la v[ɛ]ˈlinha “sail(+EVAL)”
v[e]ˈleiro/v[e]leˈjar “sailboat/to sail”
Word‐based suffixed words form two stress domains, which means that the isomorphism
between morphological and prosodic words is broken: one morphological word projects into
The Phonology and Morphology of Word Formation  177
two prosodic words. In derivation, only the adverb‐forming suffix –mente has this capacity:
it is added to an adjective (in the singular form, and it must be feminine if variable for
gender). In EP, two vowels keep their underlying quality: the stressed vowel of the base and
the stressed vowel of the suffix:
(33) ˈc[ɛ]rta ˈc[ɛ]rtaˈmente  c[ɨ]rˈteza
“certain”  “certainly”   “certainty”
aˈm[a]vel aˈm[a]velˈmente am[ɐ]biliˈdade
“kind” “kindly” “kindness”
veˈl[ɔ]z veˈl[ɔ]zˈmente vel[u]ciˈdade
“speedy” “speedily” “speed”
In BP, mid vowels in the first prosodic word keep their underlying lower mid quality
(34a, b) and phonetic nasal vowels, which typically only emerge under primary stress in the
southern Brazilian dialects, maintain their nasality (34c):
(34) a. aˈl[ɛ]gre	 aˈl[ɛ]greˈmente	 al[e]ˈgria
“happy”	“happily”	 “happiness”
b. ˈf[ɔ]rte	 ˈf[ɔ]rteˈmente	 f[o]rtaleˈcer
“strong”	“strongly”	 “strengthen”
c. uˈn[ɐ̃]nime	 uˈn[ɐ̃]nimeˈmente	 un[a]nimiˈdade
“unanimous”	“unanimously”	 “unanimity”
Word‐based evaluatives behave like derived‐word‐based words. These suffixes also
project an independent prosodic word. In EP, the base stressed vowel keeps its underlying
quality:
(35) proˈbl[e]ma proˈbl[e]maˈzinho “problem(+EVAL)”
probl[ɨ]ˈmático “problematic”
coˈlh[ɛ]r coˈlh[ɛ]rˈzinha “spoon(+EVAL)”
colh[ɨ]ˈrada “spoonful”
In BP, phonetic nasal vowels, which typically only emerge under primary stress in the
southern Brazilian dialects, also maintain their nasality:
(36) ˈch[ɐ̃]ma ˈch[ɐ̃]maˈzinha “flame(+EVAL)”
ch[a]musˈcar “to scorch”
Prefixation does not interfere with stress assignment, but the quality of prefix vowels
presents some specificities. In EP, unstressed vowels in some prefixes are reduced, like all
other unstressed vowels:
(37) a. d[ɨ]sfaˈzer “to undo”
d[ɨ]sˈcrer “to disbelieve”
b. r[ɨ]liˈgar	 “to reconnect”
r[ɨ]ˈver	 “to see again”
Reduction fails to apply with prefixes such as n[ɛ]o‐(ˈneo‐naˈzista “neo‐Nazi”), pr[ɛ]‐ (ˈpré‐
condiˈção “pre‐condition”) or p[ɔ]s‐ (ˈpós‐operaˈtório “post‐surgery”).15
This contrast can be
related to different properties of the prefix: prefixes such as d[ɨ]s– or r[ɨ]– do not project an
independent prosodic word, whereas prefixes such as n[ɛ]o–, pr[ɛ]– or p[ɔ]s– do. Alternatively,
178  Alina Villalva and Carlos Alexandre Gonçalves
we claim that this behavior follows from a selectional property of the prefixes, which may also
attach to roots or to words: when they attach to roots they expand the prosodic word of the base
(d[ɨ]s–, r[ɨ]); when they attach to words they project a new prosodic word (n[ɛ]o–, pr[ɛ]–, p[ɔ]s–).
Notice that, in BP, re– and pre–, unlike des–, do not undergo vowel harmony. It leads to the
raising of unstressed mid vowels, under the influence of a following stressed high vowel,
similar to what happens with unprefixed forms such as peˈpino (“cucumber”), preˈguiça
(“laziness”) or senˈtir (“to feel”)—they may be pronounced with [i] in the initial syllable (see
Bisol and Veloso, Chapter 5 in this volume, for details). For instance, in BP, phonetic forms
such as *r[i]viˈsita (“revisit”), *r[i]ˈtinto (“re‐dye”) and *r[i]ˈvisto (“revised”) do not occur, nor
do *pr[i]ˈver (“to preview”) e *pr[i]sˈsinto (“I sense”), which suggests the existence of some
morphological conditioning for the application of this phonological rule. Moreover, the
raising of the stressed vowel does not occur in hiatus (*r[i]abasteˈcer “to refill”;*r[i]uˈsar “to
reuse”), and the vowels in these prefixes are less likely to deletion when the following vowel
is identical (r[e]‐[e]xpliˈcar “re‐explain,” r[e]‐[e]laboˈrar “re‐elaborate”).16
Despite being
unstressed, this prefix has a high degree of morphological integrity, since it resists several
processes that affect the unstressed vocalism.
Finally, we mention the neutralization of mid vowels in stressed syllables. Suffixes like –ico
and –il form dactylic (38a) and spondaic feet (38b), respectively. Stressed mid vowels in these
derivatives always display lower mid qualities ([ɛ, ɔ]), which is also the pattern for non‐
derived words with the same prosodic structure (38c). The productivity of the process is
shown by the fact that loans adapt to these models (ˈW[ɔ]shington; ˈsh[ɔ]pping). These facts
prove that lowering is a phonological rule in Portuguese (cf.Wetzels (1992).
(38) a. esqueˈl[e]to	 esqueˈl[ɛ]tico	 caˈl[o]r	 caˈl[ɔ]rico
“skeleton”	 “skeletal”	“heat”	 “caloric”
ˈnúm[e]ro	 nuˈm[ɛ]rico	BP:meˈtáf[o]ra	 metaˈf[ɔ]rico
ˈnúm[ɨ]ro	 nuˈm[ɛ]rico	EP: meˈtáf[u]ra	 metaˈf[ɔ]rico
“number”	 “numerical”	“metaphor”	 “metaphorical”
b. BP: proj[e]ˈtar	 proˈj[ɛ]til	 ˈd[o]ce	 ˈd[ɔ]cil
EP: proj[ɛ]ˈtar	 proˈj[ɛ]til	“sweet”	 “docile”
“to project” “projectile”
c. ˈp[ɛ]tala	 ˈf [ɔ]sforo	 ˈr[ɛ]plica	 ˈc[ɔ]cegas
“petal”	 “match”	“replica”	 “tickles”
2.5.  Affixal allomorphy
Some derivational suffixes have one or more allomorphs. In some cases, like –al ~ –ar, for
instance, it was inherited from Latin: –ar occurs due to a dissimilation when the nominal
base contains /l/:17
(39) a. [[acidenˈt]al] “accidental”
[[horizonˈt]al] “horizontal”
b. [[celuˈl]ar] “cellular”
[[molecuˈl]ar] “molecular”
c. [[elemenˈt]ar] “basic”
[[nucle]ˈar] “core”
Another case of allomorphy (which does not have a Latin origin) concerns the suffix
–ez ~ –eza,18
that forms deadjectival quality nouns:
(40) ˈvelh(o) veˈlhice ~ veˈlhez “old/old age”
The Phonology and Morphology of Word Formation  179
Contemporary formation of quality nouns prefers another suffix (i.e. –idade), which means
that –ez ~ –eza is not used to form new words. Nevertheless, available data indicate that their
distribution has a prosodic basis, which is related to their thematic status: –ez forms –Ø stem
nouns, such as timiˈdez “shyness,” –eza forms ‐a stem nouns, like maˈgreza “slimness.” The
allomorph distribution is sensitive to the number of syllables in the base:19
–eza selects shorter
bases (typically monosyllable roots) such as friˈeza(“coldness”), and ‐ez selects longer bases
(roots with two or more syllables), like aciˈdez(“acidity”).
Prefixes can also have allomorphic variation. The prefix in–, for instance, has three
allomorphs: [i.n], [i] e [ĩ]:
(41) [i]leˈgal “illegal” [ĩ]posˈsível “impossible” [i.ˈn]apto “unfit”
[i]moˈral “immoral” [ĩ]ˈcerto “uncertain” [i.n]experiˈente “inexperienced”
[i]rreˈal “unreal” [ĩ]ˈjusto “unfair” [i.ˈn]útil “useless”
These alternations are the same in EP and BP: [i] occurs before sonorant consonants, [ĩ] is
chosen before a base‐initial non‐sonorant, whereas the sequence [in] is found before a vowel‐
initial base.
Some derivational suffixes trigger the application of morphophonological rules that affect
the phonetic shape of the output, such as the lenition of velars (42a) or haplology20
(42b):
(42) a. fiˈlólo[g]o  filoloˈ[ʒ]ia	“philologist/philology”
hisˈtóri[k]o  historiˈ[s]ismo	“historic/historicism”
b. cariˈdade cari(da)ˈdoso “charity/charitable”
ˈmínima se(mi)ˈ(mí)nima “half note/quarter note”
In the first case (cf. Lee 1995), velar plosives become fricatives before suffixes initiated by
the vowel /i/, like –ia, –ista, and –ismo. In morphological haplology, two identical or phonet-
ically similar syllables are reduced to one, usually the right one (cf. Gonçalves 2011).
3. Compounding
Affixation requires the presence of an affix, compounding combines roots or words: the
combination of roots yields a morphological structure (a morphological compound); the
combination of words yields lexical units that have a hybrid morphosyntactic structure
(morphosyntactic compounds) or they are lexicalized phrases (syntactic compounds).
We have just seen that the difference between compounding and affixation suggests that
there is a clear‐cut distinction between affixes and roots (or even words), which, in fact, does
not exist. We will nevertheless present a characterization of roots that helps to set them apart
from affixes.
3.1. Roots
In Portuguese, some roots occur in simple and in complex words, as [metr] in [ˈmetr]o “meter,”
[[[ˈmétr]ic]o] “metric” and [[[meˈtr][ónom]]o] “metronome”; other roots only occur in com-
plex words, as ([fratr] in [[[fratr][i][ʹcid]]a] “fratricide”). Derivational suffixes (like ‐ção) and
modifier affixes (like des‐) can only occur in complex words (ligaˈção “connection”; desliˈgar
“to disconnect”). Thus, it is easy to distinguish roots (that may occur in both simple and com-
plex words) from affixes (that cannot occur as simple words); it is harder to set apart roots
that occur only in complex words, like affixes.
180  Alina Villalva and Carlos Alexandre Gonçalves
Roots that are present in simple word are roots by definition. Simple words make their
inherent properties (such as word‐class and subcategories (43a)) visible. These roots can also
occur in words formed by derivation or modification (43b):
(43) a. [[[ˈbol]nr‐a, fem
a]ns
]n
	“ball”
[[[ˈbol]nr‐o, msc
o]ns
]n
	“cake”
[[[geˈr]c1 vr
a]vs
r]v
	 “to generate”
[[[geˈr]c3 vr
i]vs
r]v
	 “to manage”
b. [[[[boˈl]nr
ad]nr
a]ns
]n
“hit with a ball”
[[[[boˈl]nr
inh]nr
o]ns
]n
“small cake”
[[[[ger]vr
aˈdor]nr
]ns
]n
  “manager”
[[[[geˈr]vr
ent]nr
e]ns
]n
“manager”
Roots that cannot occur in simple words are generally loans from classical languages
that are particularly productive to form technical terms. These roots occur mainly in
morphological compounds (44a), but they can also be selected by neoclassical suffixes
(44b). Usually, they have an imprecise meaning, and they are underspecified for word‐
class and thematic membership. They depend on other constituents to become a member
of a word‐class (44c):
(44) a. [[[top][o][loˈg]]ia] “topology”
b. [[[ˈtóp][ic]]o] “topic”
c. [[[bi][o][loˈg]]ia]n
“biology”
[[[bi][o][ˈlóg]]ico]adj
  “biologic”
Many of these roots can take any of the available positions (45a), but there are roots that
can only be in the initial position (45b) and others that can only occur in final position (45c):
(45) a. [antroˈp]ólogo “anthropologist”
fil[anˈtrop]o “philanthropist”
b. [hom]oˈnímia “homonymy”
c. herbi[ˈcid]a “herbicide”
In the previous section, we established that roots that occur only as initial constituents,
like hom– (a loan from Greek, meaning “equal”) and prefixes are better described, indis-
tinctly, as modifiers. The classification of units like antrop (a loan from Greek, meaning
“man”) as roots, rather than affixes, derives from their availability in both initial and final
position. Finally, roots that can only occur in the final position of morphological compounds,
such as –cid (a loan from Latin, meaning “kill”) are different from derivational suffixes,
because they do not define the word‐class of their output,21
and they are different from
evaluative suffixes because they are heads.
3.2.  Morphological compounds
Morphological compounds may have a modification or a coordination structure.
Modification structures are the result of left adjunction of a root (the modifier) to another
root (the head):
(46) [[pat]modifier
o[loˈg]head
]ia “pathology”
[[enˈcefal]modifier
o[paˈt]head
]ia “encephalopathy”
The Phonology and Morphology of Word Formation  181
In coordination structures, both roots are heads:
(47) [[ˈcrani]o[enceˈfál]]ico “cranioencephalic”
Usually, the boundary between roots is marked by the binding vowel –o–, unless it
precedes a member of a (lexically determined) small set of Latinate roots, and only in
modification structures. In this case, the binding vowel is ‐i–:
(48) hom[i]ˈcida “homicide”
frut[i]culˈtura “fruit production”
verˈm[i]fugo “vermifuge”
ampl[i]ˈforme “ampliform”
carˈn[i]voro “carnivore”
The binding vowel may be absent in modification structures (not in coordination
structures). This absence occurs when the right‐hand root begins with a vowel:22
(49) dem[]agoˈgia “demagogy”
ˈsul[]ameriˈcano “South American”
From a morphological point of view, these compounds are tripartite structures (root‐
binding vowel‐root). Since the choice of the binding vowel is sensitive to the kind of
structure (modification vs. coordination) and to a lexical feature of the right‐hand root,
the binding vowel is a morphological specifier of the right‐hand root. From a phonological/
prosodic point of view, morphological compounds project two prosodic words and the
binding vowel is the final vowel of the first prosodic word.
The phonetic realization of the binding vowel is quite interesting in itself and it is also
quite revealing. Binding vowels are usually in an unstressed position—that changes
whenever the right‐hand root’s only vowel cannot be stressed and no derivational suffix is
present: In BP the stressed mid vowel is lower mid in these words(dactylic lowering):
(50) auˈt[ó]grafo “autograph”
bibliˈ[ó]filo “bibliophile”
psiˈc[ó]logo “psychologist”
verˈm[í]fugo “vermifuge”
These cases are irrelevant for the analysis of the quality of the binding vowel. On the
contrary, the quality of the binding vowel ‐o‐ when it is in a non‐stressed position is worth a
note. In EP, this vowel resists to unstressed vowel reduction, surfacing as [ɔ] (51a), unless the
word is lexicalized, which means that it becomes a single prosodic word (51b). In BP, the
binding vowel tends to be surfacing as [u] (55a). In lexicalized instances, the binding vowel
also surfaces as a different vowel ([o]): (looks as if the underlying value is lower mid in
EP and upper mid in BP).
(51) EP: BP:
a. pˈsic[ɔ]linˈguística pˈsic[u]linˈguística “psycholinguistics”
ˈaut[ɔ]sustenˈtável ˈaut[u]sustenˈtável “self‐sustained”
ˈmicr[ɔ]ˈclima ˈmicr[u]ˈclima “microclimate”
b. fil[u]soˈfia fil[o]soˈfia “philosophy”
aut[u]graˈfar aut[o]graˈfar “to autograph”
micr[u]sˈcópio micr[o]sˈcópio “microscope”
182  Alina Villalva and Carlos Alexandre Gonçalves
Some morphological compounds use clips from other morphological compounds. As
neoclassical loans, they convey their original meaning (52a), but as clips they bring the
overall meaning of the compounds from where they originated (52b):
(52) a. ˈfotosˈsíntese “photosynthesis”
fotograˈfia “photography”
ˈautorreˈtrato “self portrait”
autoˈmóvel “car”
biograˈfia “biography”
bioloˈgia “biology”
econoˈmia “economy”
ecoloˈgia “ecology”
b. foto(ˈgrafia)+jornaˈlista “photo+journalist”
ˈfotojornaˈlista “photographic journalist”
auto(ˈmóvel)+esˈtrada “car+road”
ˈautoesˈtrada “freeway”
bio(loˈgia)+degraˈdável “biology+degradable”
ˈbiodegraˈdável “biodegradable”
eco(loˈgia)+tuˈrismo “ecology+tourism”
ˈecotuˈrismo “ecological tourism”
Clips such as agro–, bio–, eco–, eletro–, or foto– become new roots by merging the binding
vowel with the neoclassical root. Consequently, they have a different behavior: for instance,
when they precede a vowel‐initial root, the final –o is not deleted:
(53) foto(graˈfia)+avenˈtura “photo+adventure”
ˈfotoavenˈtura “photographic adventure”
eco(loˈgia)+alˈdeia “ecology+village”
ˈecoalˈdeia “ecological village”
Clips often become words. That is the case of foto (“photo”) and micro (“microphone”). BP
has many more examples:
(54) Meus irmãos são ˈhéteros. (=ˈhetero[ssexuˈai]s)
“My brothers are heterosexuals”
3.3.  Morphosyntactic compounds
Morphosyntactic compounds result from the right adjunction of a noun to a noun (55a), the
coordination of nouns (55b) or, less frequently, of adjectives (55c) or even of verbs (55d), and
the reanalysis of a verb phrase (55e):
(55) a. ˈmãe‐coˈruja “doting mother”
b. leiˈtor‐gravaˈdor “player‐recorder”
c. ˈsurdo‐ˈmudo “deaf‐mute”
d. ˈleva‐e‐ˈtraz “gossiper”
e. ˈquebra‐ˈnozes “nutcracker”
Modification structures like those in (55a) and (56) are head‐initial: the head noun deter-
mines the gender and the number of the compound. The modifier noun remains invariable:
(56) a. [[caˈfé(s)]n_msc_sg/pl
conˈcerto]N_msc_sg
“coffee concert = cabaret(s)”
b. [[esˈcola(s)]n_fem_sg/pl
moˈdelo]n_fem_sg
“school model = model school(s)”
The Phonology and Morphology of Word Formation  183
These compounds are interpreted as modification structures: the compound is a
hyponym of its head: caˈfé‐conˈcerto is a “type of coffee house”; esˈcola moˈdelo is a
“type of school.”
In coordination structures like (57b) and (57c), both constituents are heads. Therefore,
they both inflect in number (57a). For animated nouns (57b) or adjectives (57c), gender
agreement is also required. In the case of coordination of inanimate nouns with discordant
values of gender, the gender is masculine (57d), which is the unmarked value:
(57) a. [leiˈtor(es)]n_msc_sg
[gravaˈdor(es)]n_msc_sg
“player‐recorder(s)”
b. [nadaˈdor/a(s)]n_msc/fem_sg/pl
[salvaˈdor/a(s)]n_msc/fem_sg/pl
“lifeguard(s)”
c. [ˈdoce(s)]adj_sg
[aˈmargo/a(s)]adj_msc_sg
“bittersweet”
d. [ˈbar(es)]n_msc_sg
[discoˈteca(s)]n_fem_sg
]n_msc_sg
“disco‐bar(s)”
The meaning of coordinated compounds is not always easy to establish, since it may be
additive (58a), sequential (58b), or reciprocal (58c):
(58) a. leiˈtor‐gravaˈdor “reader‐recorder = device that plays and records”
b. ouˈtono‐inˈverno “autumn‐winter”
c. aˈluno‐profesˈsor “student‐teacher = relationship between student and teacher”
Note that the line between modification structure and coordination structure may be
difficult to draw: in some cases they may be interpreted as reciprocal modification (59a). This
difficulty is noticeable in the hesitation of speakers regarding number inflection (59b):
(59) a. soˈfá‐ˈcama “sofa‐bed” = sofa that serves as a bed or a sofa that
serves as a bed and a bed that serves as a sofa
b. soˈfás‐ˈcamas vs. soˈfás‐ˈcama
Another type of morphosyntactic compounding is based on structures very similar to
VPs. They are formed by the third‐person singular indicative present form of a (typically)
transitive verb; and by a (generally) plural noun, which is the head of the direct object of that
verb. Usually, this compounding process generates a masculine subject‐noun:
(60) ˈguarda‐ˈcostas ‘guards‐back = bodyguard’
ˈquebra‐caˈbeça(s) ‘breaks‐heads = puzzle’
A final type of morphosyntactic compounding combines two verbs to form, again, a mas-
culine noun. Two subtypes must be distinguished. The first corresponds to the coordination
of two different verb forms (Vi
Vj
). Usually, these compounds occur only in the singular form
and their meaning is quite transparent:
(61) BP: ˈbate‐enˈtope ‘hits‐clogs = hit‐clog’
EP ˈsobe‐e‐ˈdesce ‘goes up‐and‐comes down = see saw’
BP/EP: ˈleva‐e‐ˈtraz ‘takes‐and‐brings = intriguer’
The second subtype, much more common in BP than in EP, involves reduplication of the
verb to form a Vi
Vi
compound. These forms can convey two meanings: an action (62a) or an
object (62b). In some cases, both meanings can be observed in the same word (62c):
(62) a. ˈcorre‐ˈcorre ‘run‐run’
b. ˈpisca‐ˈpisca ‘blinks‐blinks = blinker’
c. ˈpula‐ˈpula ‘jumps‐jumps =act of jumping repeatedly/a toy in the playground”
184  Alina Villalva and Carlos Alexandre Gonçalves
The bases of Vi
Vi
compounds are generally disyllabic. There are also a few cases like
aˈgarra‐aˈgarra (“grabs‐grabs”), with three syllables that always start with an onsetless syllable.
Since the reduplication of the verb base is governed by prosodic conditions, the final syllables
are always open, except when the verb is monosyllabic (ˈsai‐ˈsai “leaves‐leaves” = “one goes
out”). Finally, the main morphological characteristic of this type of formation is the selection
of the third‐person singular indicative present: we assume that this is the unmarked form of
the verb paradigm, which allows the reinterpretation of the verb as a noun.
3.4.  Syntactic compounds
Syntactic compounding is not a morphological word formation process—it is a process of
lexicalization of phrases. Reference grammars usually list a number of different cases, such
as the following:
(63) N‐P‐N [[N][P
[N]NP
]PP
]NP
caˈminho de ˈferro “road‐of‐iron = railroad”
N‐ADJ [[N][ADJ]ADJP
]NP
ˈcofre ˈforte “safe‐strong = safe”
ADJ‐N [[ADJ]ADJP
[N]]NP
ˈalta tempoˈrada “high season”
These word sequences display typical syntactic properties, regarding number inflection
(64a) and gender contrasts, when available (64b):
(64) a. caˈminho(s) deˈferro “railroad(s)”
ˈcofre(s) ˈforte(s) “safe(s)”
b. arquiˈteto/a de interiˈores “interior (m/f) designer”
priˈmeiro/a miˈnistro/a “prime minister (m/f)”
What motivates the treatment of these sequences as lexical units is their semantics,
which is not compositional. Another property that distinguishes these lexicalized phrases
from genuine syntactic phrases is the fact that the extraction of a single constituent is
ungrammatical:
(65) *caminhos de [ferro velho] “[old iron] roads”
*esse é um [cofre quê]? “this is a [safe what]?”
*[primeiro e único] ministro “prime and only minister”
*dos dois[caminhosi
[]j
], prefiro o [[]i
[de ferro]j
] “of both ways, I prefer the iron one”
3.5.  Other types of compounding?
Anon‐concatenative morphological process often associated with compounding is blending.
Although there are two words that serve as input for a third form (as in compounding),
blends are different, because they are produced by the intersection of bases instead
of concatenation, as in crenˈtino (ˈcrente+creˈtino, “religious+fool” = “false religious”) and
lixeraˈtura (ˈlixo+literaˈtura, “garbage+literature” = “shoddy literature”). The deleted material
is not predictable.
From a phonological perspective, blends are single prosodic words. The output
form preserves the largest possible number of identical segments of the input forms, as in
apertaˈmento “small apartment” (aˈperto+apartaˈtamento “clench+apartment”). As a result,
the transition of the first of the input forms to the second coincides with an identical
segment or syllable (ˈsaco+picoˈlé “bag+popsicle” = sacoˈlé “popsicle in a bag”; ˈpai+ˈmãe
“father+mother”=ˈpãe “caring father”).
The Phonology and Morphology of Word Formation  185
3.6.  Emergence of new morphological constituents
The emergence of a new productive word‐formation process may happen when speakers
start using a loan to make new words, or because speakers reinterpret an existing
morpheme or part of a morpheme with a new meaning. In the first case, the use of forma-
tives such as cyber–, wiki–, and e–, which, combined with native bases, form words like
ˈcyber‐aˈvó (“cyber‐grandmother”), ˈwiki‐ˈaves (“wiki‐birds”) and e‐profesˈsor (“e‐professor”).
In the second case, the phenomenon can be seen as a kind of folk etymology: words
without any internal structure may be reinterpreted as compounds or affixing forms that
consist of two parts, like maˈdrasta (“stepmother”) and patroˈcínio (“sponsorship”). They
are intentionally misanalyzed as má (“bad”) plus drasta to form a new meaning: “a bad
stepmother”23
and ˈpa(i) (“father”) plus trocínio(“sponsored by the father”). This strategy
gives rise to forms such as:
(66) a. ˈsograˈdrasta “stepmother‐in‐law”
irˈmãˈdrasta “step‐sister”
b. ˈtiotroˈcínio “sponsored by an uncle”
ˈmãetroˈcínio “sponsored by the mother”
These particles are usually called splinters, which are elements that occur at the edge of
the word, the same way affixes do, but, because of their meanings, they correspond to
roots. Therefore, splinters form a separate class, situated somewhere between roots
and affixes. Thus, clipping and blending play an important role in the morphology of
Portuguese, as they can produce splinters, not being, therefore, interpreted as exclusively
non‐morphemically.
4. Conclusion
The study of Portuguese morphology largely benefits from the fact that (at least) two sub-
systems can be easily compared: contrasts between EP and BP often offer the possibility
to consolidate analyses independently outlined or, inversely, show how closely related
languages may be different and ask for different analyses for certain subsystems of the
grammar.
The vowel system in EP, which facilitates the identification of unstressed reduced vowels,
is particularly relevant to establish that suffixes may attach to roots, stems or words, and it is
also required to understand the structure of morphological compounds.
The description of processes that involve non‐concatenative morphology or structural
mutations clearly benefit from the livelihood they have in BP. In this variety, process like
reduplication, blending and clipping are most commonly employed, which enables us to say
that this is one of the main aspects that differentiate the two varieties described here.
Notes
1	 We will discuss the formation of nouns, adjectives and verbs and –mente adverbs. In all examples,
the stress mark (ˈ) precedes the stressed syllable. Moreover, these syllables are written in bold.
2	 Thematic constituents (thematic vowels for verbs and thematic indexes for all other classes) are
morphological specifiers.
3	 Morphosyntactic specifiers (= MSS) are inflectional suffixes.
186  Alina Villalva and Carlos Alexandre Gonçalves
4	 Alongside masculine (= MSC) and feminine (= FEM), we will consider a third value (non‐specified)
that is assigned to bases that will be syntactically specified:
aˈtletassub
“athletes”
osmsc
aˈtletasmsc
asfem
aˈtletasfem
5	 Consider, for instance, the above‐mentioned inflection of ˈpele (“skin”) and paˈpel (“paper”). The
relevance of thematic classes for inflection is also obvious in the phonetic outputs of words ending
in the diphthong [aw]. In BP, words ending in <l>, as caˈnal (“channel”), are pronounced the same
way as words ending in <u>, as deˈgrau (“step”). In the plural, however, they differ considerably,
since the plural of the latter, which is a projection of an athematic root, is obtained by the adjunction
of the suffix –s (deˈgraus, “steps”), while the plural of the former is obtained by semi‐vocalization
of the final consonant of the –Ø root, /l/, to receive the plural suffix (caˈnais “channels”).
6	 Traditional accounts do not usually mention infixation.
7	 There is a limited number of pairs of words formed by conversion and derivation from a same
base, but generally they are not semantically equivalent (ˈperda “loss” and perdiˈção “perdition”;
celeˈbrar “to celebrate” and celebriˈzar “to make famous”).
8	 The examples presented in this section are usually called diminutive suffixes. Their semantic role may
be related to size, but it may also convey other meanings: caˈsinha (the ‘diminutive’ from ˈcasa “house”)
may refer a “small house”, a “lovely house”, a “cherished house”, an “old house” an “ugly house”, or
other, depending on pragmatics. It may even be used as a rhetoric resource. This is why the tag ‘eval-
uative’ (including augmentative and superlative as well) seems more appropriate—it includes mor-
phological devices that allow the speaker to convey an opinion about a lexical unit, from its inside.
9	 Portuguese southern dialects prefer ‐it(o/a) (liˈvrito “book+EVAL”), and –zit(o/a) (ˈcãoˈzito
“dog+EVAL”).
10	 Other analyses are available, (see Bisol 2010, for instance, which considers –inho and –zinho
allomorphs of the same morpheme). We follow the proposal of Villalva (1994, 2008, 2009).
11	 In BP,–Ø roots that may combine with –inho are those ending in <r>, although few examples
are  found: colheˈrinha/colherˈzinha “spoon+EVAL”, devagaˈrinho/devagarˈzinho “slowly”. Other
instances are lexicalized words (colaˈrinho “collar”+EVAL = foam of beer’).
12	 This preference has been demonstrated by the results of usage surveys (Villalva 2009).
13	 In EP, there are cases of truncation, like aˈnarca (“anarchist”), which have a clear pejorative or
derogatory value, but their prevalence in EP is smaller than in BP. Evidently, this is because in EP
word‐shortening is generally obtained by reducing unstressed vowels.
14	 Most authors (e.g. Basílio 1987, Sandmann 1989) consider prefixation a derivational process. Some
others (e.g. Mattoso Câmara 1971, Macambira 1978) argue that there are no substantial differences
between prefixed and compound words; other still (e.g. Villalva 1994, Gonçalves 2012) argue that
prefixation is midway between derivation and compounding. Our claim here is that prefixation is
neither derivation nor compounding—it is a process of morphological modification that can make
use of prefixes or roots.
15	 In words such as n[j]oloˈgismo (“neologism”), pr[ɨ]ssentiˈmento (“feeling”), or p[u]sˈpor(“to post-
pone”), the prefix vowel is reduced as a result of lexicalization.
16	 In EP, these hiatus are avoided by glide formation (r[j]abasteˈcer “to refill”, r[j]uˈsar “to re‐use”),
and the vowels in these prefixes are less likely to deletion when the following vowel is iden-
tical (r[j]‐[ɐj]xpliˈcar “to re‐explain”, r[j]‐[e]laboˈrar ‘to re‐elaborate’).
17	 Words such as colegiˈal (“collegial”), coloniˈal (“colonial”) and coloquiˈal (“colloquial”) do not
respect the –ar ~ –al allomorphy. This is probably due to the fact that they are Latinate words
recently introduced in the Portuguese lexicon.
18	 This suffix is etymologically related to the suffixes –ice (doiˈdice “insanity”), and –ície (imunˈdicie
“filth”), but these behave as different suffixes, not as allomorphs, in Portuguese.
19	 This suffix is no longer productive. Consequently, all the derivatives tend to be lexicalized.
Therefore, we find the same base with both allomorphs (duˈrez, duˈreza “hardiness”), although
usually only one of them is currently used. Some counter‐examples, such as ruˈdez (“rudeness”) or
aspeˈreza (“roughness”), can also be found.
The Phonology and Morphology of Word Formation  187
20	 Haplology cases are quite rare and most of them are quite old.
21	 The word‐class of herbiˈcida (adjective/noun) is a property of the structure.
22	 The binding vowel is not deleted when the first root ends in a vowel (bi+log “life+knowledge” =
bi[o]logia “biology”; ge+graf “earth+write” = ge[ó]grafo “geographer”). There is a considerable
number of morphological compounds that do not fit in the above‐described pattern. Either because
of a preference for the most usual binding vowel (parc[ó]metro ‘parkmeter’) or for different reasons,
which may be etymological, in some cases, contrastive, in some other, since most of these words
are loans that can be found in many European languages.
23	 In BP, a loving stepmother is named mãeˈdrastra (ˈmãe+maˈdrastra “mother+stepmother”), another
lexical blend.
References
Basílio, M. (1987). Teoria Lexical. São Paulo: Ática.
Bauer, L. (1988). Introducing Linguistic
Morphology. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University
Press.
Bisol, L. (2010). O diminutivo e suas demandas.
DELTA, 26 (1), pp. 59–85.
Carvalho, H. de (1967). Teoria da Linguagem.
Natureza do Fenómeno Linguístico e Análise das
Línguas. Coimbra: Atlântida.
Fandrych, I. (2008). Submorphemic elements in
the formation of acronyms, blends and
clippings. Lexis – E‐Journal in English
Lexicology, 2.
Gonçalves, C. A. V. (2004). Usos morfológicos: os
processos marginais de formação de palavras
em português. Gragoatá, 21, pp. 219–242.
Gonçalves, C. A. V. (2011). Iniciação aos Estudos
Morfológicos. São Paulo: Contexto.
Gonçalves, C. A. V. (2012). Atuais tendências
em formação de palavras no português
brasileiro. Signum. Estudos de Linguagem, 15,
pp. 169–199.
Lee, S. H. (1995). Fonologia e Morfologia Lexical do
Português. Ph.D. disseration, UNICAMP.
Macambira, J. R. (1978). Português Estrutural, 2nd
edn. São Paulo: Pioneira.
Mattoso Câmara Jr., J. (1971). Problemas de
Lingüística Descritiva. Petrópolis: Vozes.
Rio‐Torto, G. (1998). Morfologia Derivacional.
Teoria e Aplicação ao Português. Porto: Porto
Editora.
Sandmann, A. J. (1989). Morfologia Geral. São
Paulo: Contexto.
Schwindt, L. C. (2000). O Prefixo no Português
Brasileiro: Análise Morfofonológica. Ph.D.
dissertation, Pontifícia Universidade Católica
do Rio Grande do Sul.
Villalva, A. (1994). Estruturas Morfológicas.
Unidades e Hierarquias nas Palavras do Português.
Lisbon: FCG‐FCT.
Villalva, A. (2008). Morfologia do Português.
Lisbon: Universidade Aberta.
Villalva, A. (2009). Sobre a formação dos
chamados diminutivos em Português
Europeu. In Actas do 25° Encontro da Associação
Portuguesa de Linguística, pp. 787–793.
Villalva, A. and J. P. Silvestre (2014). Introdução ao
Estudo do Léxico. Descrição e Análise do
Português. Petrópolis: Vozes.
Wetzels, W. L. (1992). Mid vowel neutralization
in Brazilian Portuguese. Cadernos de Estudos
Lingüísticos, 23, pp. 19–55.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
In this chapter we describe the morphology of nominal and verbal inflection of Portuguese
and the way it interacts with phonology. Considering the regularity characteristic of
inflectional processes, one does not expect to find significant differences between Brazilian
and European Portuguese in this area. Nevertheless, our account of this topic provides an
overview of some relevant studies produced by authors of the two varieties. Where rele-
vant, the aspects that differentiate between them will be discussed.
1.  Nominal inflection
Among the non‐verbs of Portuguese, articles, nouns, adjectives, numerals, and pronouns
represent the categories that can be inflected. For reasons of limited space we will focus in
this chapter on the inflection of nouns and verbs.
Portuguese nouns belong to one of two grammatical gender classes, masculine or
feminine, of which the feminine is considered the marked class. Nouns are also subject to
pluralization with the –s suffix. Unlike adjectives and determiners, inflection for nouns is not
the product of agreement; they trigger agreement by transferring their gender and number
features to adjectives and determiners under conditions established by syntax.
(1)  a. [[o]article masc. sg
[menino]noun masc. sg
[esperto]adjective masc. sg
]NP
“the smart boy”
b. [[as]article fem. pl
[meninas]noun fem. pl
[espertas]adjective fem. pl
]NP
“the smart girls”
A suffix –a can be added to nominal stems to mark them as feminine nouns, while the –s
suffix marks them for plurality. This seemingly simple inflectional system, however, has
some significant phonological repercussions, which is the subject of this section.
1.1. Gender
Portuguese nouns divide into two grammatical gender classes, masculine and feminine, not
necessarily associated with biological gender, not even in the case of animate referents, as is
shown by the example O agente de viagens foi atencioso “The travel agent was courteous,” where
agente can refer to a man or a woman, but requires masculine agreement with the adjective.1
The Morphology and Phonology
of Inflection
Luiz Carlos Schwindt
and W. Leo Wetzels
11
The Morphology and Phonology of Inflection  189
With regard to gender marking, nouns can be classified in three groups: marked variable
gender (2), unmarked variable gender (3), and invariable gender (4).
(2) a. menino/menina “boy”/“girl”
b. leão/leoa “lion”/“lioness”
c. presidente/presidenta “president (male)”/“president (female)”
(3) a. dentista masc/fem “dentist”
b. cliente masc/fem “customer”
c. soprano masc/fem “soprano”
(4) a. problema masc “problem”
b. tribo fem “tribe”
c. dente masc “tooth”
d. lente fem “lens”
The words in (2) represent the most productive pattern of biological gender inflection in
Portuguese. Most speakers, including children during language acquisition, associate nouns
with animate referents that end in –a with females and those ending in –o with males.2
Câmara Jr.(1970) interpreted this opposition privatively, with the feminine marker –a in
opposition with ø in the masculine, the latter representing the unmarked gender. Although
the examples in (2a, b) suggest an equipollent opposition, the linguistic tradition rejected the
equipollent analysis with the following arguments: (i) –a contrasts with both –o and –e, as
shown in (2c); (ii) –e attaches also to invariable gender nouns, masculine or feminine, as can
be seen in (4c, d). The nouns in (3) have the same form for both the masculine and the
feminine but are realized with two different genders, as is revealed by the agreement process
in sentences like a/o dentista esperta/o “the smart dentist fem/masc.” As for nouns ending
in –e, while most of them allow the formation of a corresponding feminine form ending in –a,
such as a presidenta “the president fem,” some are more recalcitrant, such as cliente “cus-
tomer” (3b), for which the form clienta sounds strange for most BP speakers. While nouns
with variable gender ending in –e are capable of referring to both the masculine or the
feminine, when the suffix –a is added, reference is exclusively to the feminine gender, show-
ing the existence of an independent feminine marker. Examples such as (3c), which are two‐
gendered nouns ending in –o, are very rare; when they occur, they often show de‐adjectival
properties, i.e. the sentence ela é uma soprano “she is a soprano” can be paraphrased by means
of a structure like ela é uma cantora do tipo soprano “she is a singer of the soprano type.” This
favors the strong association of –o with the masculine gender.
The nouns in (4), although they carry gender information transmitted by agreement, do
not admit any change of gender. Unlike the examples in (2) and (3), these nouns have no
association with biological gender, but refer to objects or abstract entities. They also have an
unpredictable class marker, as they can end in –a, –o, or –e, and there is no systematic relation
between grammatical gender and the class marker. Whereas the great majority of the a‐final
words in this class have feminine gender, some are masculine. Interestingly, in this category,
examples of words with feminine gender ending in –o are also extremely rare.
1.1.1.  Other mechanisms for forming feminine nouns
Although the addition of the suffix –a is the main expedient for biological gender inflection
in Portuguese, the language also makes use of other strategies, which often involve the
modification of the base to which the feminine suffix attaches, resulting in root allomorphy, as
in (5a, b) below, or in the addition of a derivational extension before the feminine marker,
as in (5c, d). These extensions are not synchronously transparent for native speakers, making
this type of biological gender expression very restricted.
190  Luiz Carlos Schwindt and W. Leo Wetzels
(5) Masculine/Feminine with root allomorphy
a. frei/freira “friar”/“nun”
b. judeu/judia “Jew”/“Jewess”
c. rei/rainha “king”/“queen”
d. príncipe/princesa “prince”/ “princess”
The fact that these changes in the nominal root happen only from the masculine to the
feminine supports the hypothesis of the masculine being unmarked in the language.
Finally, Portuguese equally has noun pairs with opposite biological gender
involving suppletion (cf. homem/mulher “man”/“woman”; genro/nora “son‐in‐law”/
“daughter‐in‐law”).
1.1.2.  Formal class markers –e, –o, –a and their relation to gender
Like other Romance languages, such as Spanish and Italian, for example, Portuguese non‐
verbs preferably end in vowels. There has been some discussion about whether this property
finds its main motivation in morphology or in phonology, since this vowel, although tradition-
ally described as a morpheme, acts at the same time to prevent illegal codas in the language.
Câmara Jr. (1970) classified these final vowels as thematic vowels because of their relation with
gender, separating them into three classes: Class 1, nouns ending in –a, class 2, nouns ending
in –o, and class 3 nouns ending in –e. Mateus and d’Andrade (2000: 68), on the other hand, use
the term “thematic vowels” only for verbs, referring to the final vowels in nouns and adjectives
as “class markers,” for different reasons, including the fact that the choice for one of them as
the final segment in nouns is not obligatory, because consonant‐final words also exist. As a
matter of fact, Portuguese nouns may be classified in three groups: (1) nouns ending in an
unstressed vowel or nasal diphthong, usually /a/, /o/, /e/, or /aũ/; (2) nouns ending in one
of the consonants /l, R, S/3
(the latter spelled <s> or <z>); or (3) nouns ending in any of the
seven vowels that make up the stressed vowel system or in an oral diphthong.
(6)  Gender in nouns and its relation to word endings
Group I: Nouns ending in an unstressed vowel or nasal diphthong
a. menina fem “girl”
b. casa fem “house”
c. menino masc “boy”
d. muro masc “wall”
e. irmão masc “brother”
f. ponte fem “bridge”
Group II: Nouns ending in a consonant
g. animal masc “animal”
h. mar masc “sea”
i. luz fem “light”
Group III: Nouns ending in a stressed vowel or oral diphthong (athematic)
j. javali masc “wild boar”
k. urubu masc “vulture”
l. guichê masc “booth”
m. camelô masc “street vendor”
n. cipó masc “liana”
o. café masc “coffee”
p. alvará masc “business license”
q. mingau masc “porridge”
The Morphology and Phonology of Inflection  191
Let us consider the classification proposed in (6) and discuss its implications for gender
formation.
(i)	 The words of Group I receive a class marker –a, –o, or –e, which attaches to the nominal root,
preparing it to receive the gender and number inflections. When the feminine suffix –a is
added to the nominal theme to create feminine gender, the phonological process of
vowel deletion in hiatus is applied (e.g. /menino+a/ → [meˈnĩna]; /presidente+a/ →
[presiˈdẽn
ta], /turista+a/ → [tuˈrista]). The lexical representation of nouns ending in a nasal
diphthong represents a more controversial analytical issue. The classic hypothesis con-
siders that words like irmão [iɾmãw̃] “brother” have an underlying form /irmaN+o/,
which would also explain the appearance of /o/ (> [w]) in the plural form irmãos, for
example. Such an analysis assigns these words to the class of thematic nouns, which,
at some abstract level of representation, end in one of the class markers. These words mostly
realize their feminine correspondent with the –a suffix, generally nasalized and attaching
directly to the root (irmão “brother” ~ irmã “sister”). In some cases, however, the feminine
suffix is oral and ­
preceded by /o/ (patrão “master” ~ patroa “mistress”).
(ii)	 Words of Group II generally have a single gender, mostly masculine. When these words
allow gender switching, the simple addition of –a occurs, as in professor ~ professora
“teacher masc/fem.” Traditionally, most of the Group II words were also analyzed as
thematic, with an underlying vowel final –e (cf. /animale/ “animal”). This analysis
explains the surfacing of the plural form with a [js] ending (cf. animais “animals”).
Below, when we discuss number inflection, we will challenge the classification of irmão
and animal type nouns as members of the thematic class.
(iii)	 The words of the third group are athematic, i.e. the stressed final vowels as well as the
oral diphthongs are considered part of the root. They usually belong to the masculine
gender class, although a small number of feminine words exist. An athematic noun can
only rarely have two genders, as the word o/a xará “the namesake‐masc/fem.” Words
ending in stressed vowels are usually of indigenous origin, mostly Tupi, or African, or
they are Gallicisms, bypassing the general trochaic accent pattern of Portuguese
non‐verbs.
The discussion so far permits the conclusion that Portuguese nouns generally end in a
class marker. We have also seen that, at the surface, there exists homophony with respect to
the final vowel –a, which can represent a class marker, as in casa “house” or a feminine suffix,
as in menina “girl” (</menino+a/). Other authors would admit the same homophony for
word‐final unstressed –o, treating it as an exponent of a class marker (muro “wall”) merged
with the masculine suffix (/menin+o,a/).4
1.2. Number
Portuguese nouns may receive plural inflection. As with gender, plural inflection is sub-
ject to agreement under the appropriate syntactic conditions. There are some words with
collective meaning with singular inflection expressing the notion of plurality (e.g. o povo
“the people”).
The opposite also exists: there is a small number of words that always realize the plural
suffix while referring to a unitary semantic concept (e.g. as férias “the vacation”).
Unlike gender, the inflectional nature of number is unchallenged, although the phonology
involved to account for the correspondence between singular and plural forms is in some
cases more intricate, without general agreement among specialists regarding the precise way
in which they are phonologically related. In the words in (7), the adjunction of the plural suf-
fix to words ending in a stressed or unstressed vowel is straightforward: the –s suffix is
added to the final vowel, which may represent the class marker, the feminine suffix, or the
final segment of the root.
192  Luiz Carlos Schwindt and W. Leo Wetzels
(7) Plural nouns ending in simple vowel (atonic and tonic)
a. crianç+a+s “children” g. tricô+s “knittings”
b. menin+a+s “girls” h. bebê+s “babies”
c. livr+o+s “books” i. urubú+s “vultures”
d. garot+o+s “boys” j. colibri+s “hummingbirds”
e. agent+e+s “agents”
f. president+e+s “presidents”
The words ending in the stressed nasal diphthong [ãw̃] are less regular in the way they
form their plurals. There is a small group that just adds –s, following the general pattern,
as shown in (8b) below. This is also the way in which the rare words with an unstressed
word‐final nasal diphthong form their plural órgão ~ órgãos “organ.” Another set, also few
in number, realize their plural ending as [ãj̃s], as shown in (8c). In most cases, this sequence
is the synchronic remnant of the Latin forms ending in –anem The majority of words
ending in stressed [ãw̃], however, realizes their plural ending as [õ�s], shown in (8a). This
alternation, prevalent in words historically derived from Latin nouns ending in –onem,
is the most widespread, including also words historically derived from Latin nouns with
different endings.
(8) Pluralization of words ending in [ãw̃]
singular plural
a. leão leões “lion(s)”
b. mão mãos “hand(s)”
c. cão cães “dog(s)”
The literature presents different analyses for this pattern. As we have seen, the traditional
approach posits an underlying class marker in these words, as is /leoN+e/ “lion.” The
singular and plural forms are derived by a set of rules illustrated with the following deriva-
tion (adapted from the discussion in Wetzels (1997) and Bisol (1998)).
(9) Singular [ãw̃] ~ plural [õj̃s]: traditional analysis
a. accent león+e león+e+s
b. nasalization leṍn+e leṍn+e+s
c. deletion of the nasal consonant leṍ+e leṍ+e
d. deletion of the class marker leṍ n.a.
e. glide insertion leṍw n.a.
f. delabialization of /o/ leã́w n.a.
g. glide formation n.a. leṍjs
h. spreading of the nasal feature leã́w̃ leṍj̃s
One of the arguments commonly advanced in favor of the hypothesis of an underlying nasal
consonant is the fact that /n/ often emerges when a derivational suffix is attached to words
with a final nasal vowel, as in leão “lion” ~ leonino “leonine.” Nevertheless, Wetzels (1997)
questions this argument, in view of the significant number of Portuguese words that contain
the word final sequence Vn{o,a,e}# in which this consonant does not delete in the forms of
the singular (compare leão with panetone *[paneˈtãw̃] “panettone,” irmão with decano *[deˈkãw̃]
“dean,” irmã with banana *[baˈnã]) as predicted by the derivation (9c) or, for irmão and irmã,
some variant thereof. In addition, the hypothesis of an underlying class marker that subse-
quently must be deleted as well as the insertion of the labial glide in the singular forms lack
independent motivation.
There are several possibilities to account for the surface alternation [ãw̃] ~ [õj̃s] more
directly. A phonological solution could involve assimilation by way of a double flop
The Morphology and Phonology of Inflection  193
affecting the place features of the last two segments, in which process the [coronal] feature
of the suffix /–S/ spreads to the preceding /ũ/, which in turn passes its [labial] feature to
the preceding /a/:
(10) /a S/
˜
V V C
+
V-place V-place C-place
dorsal
[ õ s]
ı̃
labial coronal
u5
This analysis faces the problem of marking the (few) words of the type (8b, c) as excep-
tional with regard to the second spreading operation (cão/cães “dog(s)”), or both operations
(mão(s) “hand(s)”). An alternative analysis, with the same set of exceptions, could perhaps
relate the change /aũ/ > [õw̃] to a similar process of assimilation that occurs in verb‐final
diphthongs (cf. the perfective paradigm of the verb falar “speak”: falei, falaste, falou, falamos,
falastes, falaram). It is equally possible to posit different underlying structures for cão and leão:
/kaũ+s/ and /leoũ+s/. To derive the plural forms, only coronal place assimilation would
be sufficient: /kaĩ+s/ and /leoĩ+s/. Moreover, the feminine leoa “lioness” could easily
be derived by truncation /leoũ+a/ > /leoa/. A rule of neutralization: /oũ/ > /aũ/ would
account for the singular leão [leãw̃], since at the surface there is no contrast between [ãw̃] and
[õw̃] representing lexical nasal diphthongs.6
The very few words like mão that form their
plural in –ãos remain exceptional with regard to the coronal assimilation rule. Obviously, a
more radical solution, although not necessarily the best one given the relatively high produc-
tivity of the [ãũ] ~ [õj̃s] pattern,7
would involve the lexicalization of the /aũ/ ~ /oĩ/ or /aũ/
~ /aĩ/ allomorphs, subcategorized for number. Clearly, in order to decide between the
available alternatives more in‐depth knowledge of the overall phonological grammar of
Portuguese is necessary, which would also involve the relation between the lexical base
and derived words like leão “lion” ~ leonino “leonine,” caminhão “truck” ~ caminhoneiro “truck
driver,” etc.
The words ending in one of the consonants /R, S, l/ also deserve special attention. Words
ending in R and S in stressed syllables necessarily require the presence of a vowel between
the root and the plural suffix.
(11) Plural of final‐stressed nouns ending in R and S
a. ator ~ atores “actor(s)”
b. rapaz ~ rapazes “boy(s)”
Regardless of the morphological status given to this vowel, be it an abstract class marker
or part of a plural allomorph, –S/–eS, the main motivation for its emergence seems to be
phonological. That is, it serves to prevent the emergence of ill formed coda clusters in
Portuguese *rs,8
*ss.9
In the few nouns ending in unstressed /VR/ or /VS/, alternative
strategies are available: in the case of *rs, although epenthesis remains the default repair
(cf. revólver > revólveres “revolver(s)”), it is not uncommon to hear revólvers in BP; in the
case of *ss, degemination, instead of epenthesis, is obligatory (cf. dois lápis/*lápises “two
pencils”).
194  Luiz Carlos Schwindt and W. Leo Wetzels
Words closed by /l/ have a plural correspondent in which –S is preceded by an oral
diphthong [Vjs], as in (12a–c). When V represents stressed [í], the sequence [ís] surfaces, as
shown in (12d).
(12) Plural of nouns ending in /l/
a. móvel ~ móveis “furniture(s)”
b. anel ~ anéis “ring(s)”
c. réptil ~ répteis “reptile(s)”
d. funil ~ funis “funnel(s)”
To account for the [l] ~ [j] alternation several analyses have been proposed. One is similar
to the treatment of words ending in R and S, such that an epenthetic vowel is added between
underlying /l/ and the plural suffix.Another analysis is suggested by Mateus and d’Andrade
(2000), who propose the semivocalization of the lateral consonant, which is moved to occupy
the final position in the nucleus of a newly added syllable triggered by the addition of –S
(cf. footnote 9). The situation is somewhat more complex in those dialects of BP where
syllable‐final /l/ is subject to semivocalization independently of plural formation: ane[w]
~ ane[js] “ring(s).”10
In these dialects, which represent the great majority of BP speakers, the
necessity for the projection of an empty nucleus is unmotivated for this word type. Instead,
the plural form can be derived by a general rule of coda vocalization and assimilation of the
glide to the coronal place of the plural suffix /anɛl/ > /anɛw/ > /anɛj+s/, which echoes
the discussion of the [ãw̃]/[õj̃s] alternation discussed above.
1.3.  Labial mid‐vowel alternations and noun inflection
In a large group of nouns containing a stressed labial mid‐vowel, when inflected with the
feminine or the plural suffix, an alternation exists between an upper and a lower mid vowel,
as in (13 c, f) below. In nouns showing this alternation, the upper mid‐vowel appears in the
masculine singular form, the lower mid‐vowel in the feminine and plural forms. Other
nouns maintain their underlying value throughout, as in (13 a, b, d, e).
(13) Gender and number with umlaut in the root
a. l[o]bo ~ l[o]ba “wolf male/female” [o]masc
~ [o]fem
b. c[ɔ]po ~ c[ɔ]pa “cup”/“glass”11
[ɔ]masc
 ~ [ɔ]fem
c. p[o]rco ~ p[ɔ]rca “pig male/female” [o]masc
~ [ɔ]fem
d. m[o]ço ~ m[o]ços “young man/men” [o]sg
~ [o]pl
e. v[ɔ]to ~ v[ɔ]tos “vote(s)” [ɔ]sg
 ~ [ɔ]pl
f. [o]sso ~ [ɔ]ssos “bone(s)” [o]sg
~ [ɔ]pl
In discussing this phenomenon, Câmara Jr. (1970) noted that the lower mid variants of the
alternating nouns manifest the synchronic reflex of Latin short ŏ, as in Lt. pŏrcum “pig.” This
led him to propose an analysis considering the lower mid‐vowel of the plural (and feminine)
as basic (in his words the “theoretic” form) for the alternating forms, qualifying the alternating
vowel quality as a submorphemic phenomenon, because redundant with the gender and
number markers. Such an analysis is supported synchronically by the fact that the pattern
[ɔ]masc,sg
→ [o] fem., pl.
is not attested. From a generative perspective, Miranda (2000) proposes
that the underlying vowel in words such as (13 b, c, e, f) is /ɔ/, which allows the formulation
of an assimilation rule that raises the lower mid‐vowel to upper‐mid in the masculine
singular form, which ends in /o/. Independent of the analysis adopted, there seems to be no
strong reason for considering the feminine or plural suffix as triggers for this vowel shift in
modern Portuguese.
The Morphology and Phonology of Inflection  195
1.4.  Evaluative suffixes
Portuguese words can vary in degree, as expressed by the use of diminutive and augmenta-
tive suffixes, such as –inho/–zinho and –ão, to cite the most common ones.12
(14) diminutive augmentative
a. prato “dish” pratinho pratão
b. livro “book” livrinho livrão
c. tela “screen” telinha telão
d. bola “ball” bolinha bolão
Words with evaluative affixes not always express an evaluative meaning, but can be used in
aeuphemisticsense(gordinho“alittlefat,”whichcouldalsorefertosomeoneobese).Diminutives
and augmentatives may lexicalize with a pejorative meaning, as one observes in the word
mulherzinha, literally “small woman,” meaning “insignificant woman,” or sapatão, literally
sapato grande “big shoe,” meaning “lesbian” in BP. For this reason, and for not exercising some
contextual effect on surrounding words in syntax, evaluative suffixation is traditionally treated
as derivation. However, different from other derivational processes, evaluative suffixation is
very productive, without any obvious gaps, and in this respect looks more like inflection. Also,
especially in the case of -(z)inho, when there are competing suffixes, an alternative form with this
suffix is always possible (e.g. tabuleta ~ tabuinha/tabuazinha “small wooden board”).
This ambiguous behavior of evaluative suffixation in Portuguese, even if it is an insuf-
ficient reason to treat it as inflection, provides some evidence for an approach that distin-
guishes contextual inflection from inherent inflection (cf. Booij, 1993, 1996), or which
conceives of different types of affixation as a continuum from prototypical derivational to
prototypical inflectional (see Hooper,1976; Stephany, 1982).
2.  Verbal inflection
2.1.  Morphological structure of the verb
The morphology of the Portuguese verb is somewhat less transparent and the corresponding
phonology more intricate than what we have seen for the noun.13
Most scholars adopt the
morphological structure in (15) below, proposed by Câmara Jr., as underlying the verbal
paradigm of Portuguese.
(15) Morphological structure of Portuguese finite verb forms
[Root + Theme]Stem + Tense/Aspect/Mood/+ Person/Number
Portuguese distinguishes three theme classes, subclassified with reference to their different
theme vowels: /a, e, i/. The language expresses three different moods, of which the indicative
and subjunctive combine with tense and aspect categories in the way shown below.
Present
Past Perfect
Pluperfect
Indicative
Subjunctive Past
Present
Future
Past (Conditional)
2-sg
Imperative 2-pl
1-pl
Imperfect
Future
Present
196  Luiz Carlos Schwindt and W. Leo Wetzels
Tense, aspect, and mood (TAM), as well as person and number (PN) are usually expressed
as part of a single suffix. Inflectional suffixes can have zero realizations. The existence of six
different PN categories are part of the linguistic conscience of most native speakers (1/2/3‐
sg, 1/2/3‐pl), although the 2‐pl form has become non‐standard in EP and BP, being replaced
by the 3‐pl form: vós falais > vocês falam “you‐pl speak.” Moreover, in BP, the 2‐sg form is
replaced by the 3‐sg form in most parts of Brazil: tu falas > você fala “you‐sg speak.” Below,
the complete set of inflected verb forms are illustrated for the three conjugation classes with
the verbs falar “speak,” bater “hit,” and partir “leave,” with comments when useful.
(16)  Morphology of the verb
a. Indicative Mood
a.1. Present
a‐theme e‐theme i‐theme
fal]root
a]theme
+ ø]tam
+ o]pn
bat]root
e]theme
+ ø]tam
+ o]pn
part]root
i]theme
+ ø]tam
+ o]pn
fal]root
a]theme
+ ø]tam
+ s]pn
bat]root
e]theme
+ ø]tam
+ s]pn
part]root
i]theme
+ ø]tam
+ s]pn
fal]root
a]theme
+ ø]tam
+ ø]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
+ ø]tam
+ mos]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
+ ø]tam
+ is]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
+ ø]tam
+ ũ14
]pn
… …
The present indicative forms are unmarked for TAM, while the 3‐sg is unmarked for PN.
Theme vowels are assumed to be part of the underlying representation of all verb forms,
although they do not always appear at the surface. Before non‐high vowels, as in the 1‐sg
forms of the present indicative and in all the forms of the present subjunctive (see below),
theme vowels do not surface, but are deleted by a truncation process that will be discussed
in Section 2.2.
a.2. Past imperfect
fal]root
a]theme
va]tam
+ ø]pn
bat]root
i]theme
a]tam
+ ø]pn
part]root
i]theme
a]tam
+ ø]pn
fal]root
a]theme
va]tam
+ s]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
va]tam
+ ø]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
va]tam
+ mos]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
ve]tam
+ is]pn
bat]root
i]theme
e]tam
+ is]pn
part]root
i]theme
e]tam
+ is]pn
fal]root
a]theme
va]tam
+   ũ]pn
… …
The distinction between the /e/ and /i/ class markers is neutralized in the imperfect.15
The past imperfect TAM suffix varies according to the different theme classes: /va/ vs. /a/,
as illustrated. Alternatively, one may represent the TAM allomorph /a/ as /ia/, assuming a
phonological rule which merges the high vowel of the suffix with the theme vowel, as pro-
posed by Câmara Jr. (1970) and Mateus and d’Andrade (2000). The variant /(v)e/ in the 2‐pl
is recurring and can be described by a morphologically conditioned rule which raises /a/ to
/e/ before tautosyllabic /i/. The 1/3‐sg forms have no person marker.
a.3. Past Perfect
fal]root
e]theme
+ ø]tam
  + i]pn
bat]root
i]theme
  + ø]tam
+ i]pn
part]root
i]theme
+ ø]tam
+ i]pn
fal]root
a]theme
+ ø]tam
  + ste]p
+ ø]sg
bat]root
e]theme
+ ø]tam
+ ste]p
+ ø]sg
fal]root
o]theme
+ ø]tam
  + u]pn
fal]root
a]theme
+ ø]tam
+ mos]pn
fal]root
a]theme
+ ø]tam
  + ste]p
+ s]pl
fal]root
a]theme
+ ra]tam
+ ũ ]pn
The Morphology and Phonology of Inflection  197
The past perfect is unmarked for TAM, except for the 3‐pl form, in all three conjugations.16
It contains the only instance in which person and number can be analyzed as separate
morphemes, but only for the second person, with the 2‐sg being unmarked. The merger of
the themes /e/ and /i/ occurs in the 1sg. In the same form, a PN suffix /i/ is assumed, moti-
vated by the overt presence of that suffix in the a‐class. Consequently, a rule of merger must
be posited, reducing /ii/ to /i/. In the first conjugation, the theme /a/ assimilates to the
tautosyllabic glides /i/ in the 1sg, surfacing as /e/ in BP ([faléj]), as [ɐ] in EP ([falɐɐ́j]) and to
/o/ in the 3‐sg, which merges with the PN suffix in EP [faló], but BP [falów].
a.4. Past Pluperfect
fal]root
a]theme
+ ra]tam
+ ø]pn
bat]root
e]theme
ra]tam
+ ø]pn
part]root
i]theme
ra]tam
+ ø]pn
fal]root
a]theme
+ ra]tam
+ s]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
+ ra]tam
+ ø]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
+ ra]tam
+ mos]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
+ re]tam
+ is]pn
…      
re]tam
…     
  
re]tam
fal]root
a]theme
+ ra]tam
+ ũ]pn
… …
The simple forms of the past pluperfect are not used in spoken BP. Instead, they are
replaced by the equivalent compound forms: tinha falado “I had said,” tinhas falado “you had
said,” etc. Similar to the imperfect, 1/3‐sg forms are unmarked for PN in the pluperfect. The
TAM morpheme /ra/ has a variant /re/ in the three theme classes, which is accounted for
by the now familiar raising rule.
a.5. Present Future
fal]root
a]theme
  + re]tam
+ i]pn
bat]root
e]theme
+ re]tam
+ i]pn
part]root
i]theme
re]tam
+ i]pn
fal]root
a]theme
  + ra]tam
+ s]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
  + ra]tam
+ ø]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
  + re]tam
+ mos]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
  + re]tam
+ is]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
  + ra]tam
+ ũ]pn
… …
The pluperfect and present future forms are distinguished by stress, which is located on
the theme in the pluperfect, while it occurs on the TAM morpheme in the future. The 3‐sg
form is unmarked. The /re/ variant of the TAM suffix not only occurs in syllables closed by
/i/, but also in the 1‐pl form.
a.6. Past Future
fal]root
a]theme
+ ria]tam
+ ø]pn
bat]root
e]theme
ria]tam
ø]pn
part]root
i]theme
  ria]tam
ø]pn
fal]root
a]theme
+ ria]tam
+ s]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
+ ria]tam
+ ø]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
+ ria]tam
+ mos]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
+ rie]tam
+ is]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
+ ria]tam
+ ũ]pn
… …
The 1/3‐sg forms are unmarked. The /rie/ variant of the TAM suffix is due to raising. In
EP, but not in BP, the forms of the future can be affected by what is called “mesóclisis,” a pro-
cess by which clitic object pronouns are inserted in the sequence …]theme
r__ V́, i.e. to the left
of the main stress: falar‐te‐ˈemos “we will speak to you,” falar‐nos‐ˈia “3‐sg would speak to us.”
This process shows that the internal structure proposed above for the future tenses could be
different in EP, with a supplementary word boundary following /r/: fal]root
a]theme
+ r # ia]tam
+ ø]pn
, as proposed by Mateus and d’Andrade, (2000: 81).
198  Luiz Carlos Schwindt and W. Leo Wetzels
(17)  Subjunctive Mood
a.1. Present
fal]root
a]theme
+ e]tam
+ ø]pn
bat]root
e]theme
+ a]tam
+ ø]pn
part]root
i]theme
+ a]tam
+ ø]pn
fal]root
a ]theme
+ e]tam
+ s]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
+ e]tam
+ ø]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
+ e]tam
+ mos]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
+ e]tam
+ is]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
+ e]tam
+ ũ]pn
… …
The 1/3‐sg forms are unmarked for PN in all the forms of the subjunctive mood, present,
past, and future. The present subjunctive is the only paradigm in which the theme vowel
is lacking for all persons. Arguments for its underlying presence will be given below.
Unexpectedly, no raising happens in the 2‐pl forms of the /e/ and /i/ themes: batais,
partais.
a.2. Past
fal]root
a]theme
+ se]tam
+ ø]pn
bat]root
e]theme
+ se]tam
+ ø]pn
part]root
i]theme
+ se]tam
+ ø]pn
fal]root
a]theme
+ se]tam
+ s]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
+ se]tam
+ ø]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
+ se]tam
+ mos]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
+ se]tam
+ is]pn
… …
fal]root
a]theme
+ se]tam
+ ũ]pn
… …
The forms of the future subjunctive are identical with those of the impersonal infinitive:
falar–1‐sg, falares–2‐sg, falar–3‐sg, falarmos–1‐pl, falardes–2‐pl, falarem–3‐pl, and similarly for
the /e/ and /i/ conjugations.
(18)  Imperative Mood
affirmative
proximal
2-pl affirmative falai
fala
distal
2-sg negative não fales
affirmative/negative fale/não fale
distal
proximal/distal
negative
affirmative/negative falem/não falem
não faleis
1-pl proximal/distal affirmative/negative falemos/(não) falemos
The distinction between proximal and distal 2‐sg imperative forms is made systematically
only in Portugal.17
In Brazil, the use of the affirmative imperative associated with the indica-
tive (fala) or the subjunctive (fale) form appears to depend mainly on non‐linguistic parame-
ters like geographical region (northeast vs. south, southeast, and center‐west) and, within a
given region, “state capital” vs. “interior.” Moreover, a complex of other factors, syntactic
and pragmatic, intervene in the use of the indicative or subjunctive forms, also in dialects
with a predominant use of either one of the alternative forms. For example, it was shown
that the indicative form is used preferentially with some verbs in all variants of BP and that
the usage of the indicative vs. subjunctive forms relates to the dialogue vs. non‐dialogue
discourse, among other factors. In negative sentences with preverbal negation, the use of the
imperative associated with the subjunctive form is more frequent, without a direct relation
The Morphology and Phonology of Inflection  199
with the type of pronoun (tu vs. você) in use, contrary to what is traditionally assumed (see
Scherre, 2007 and 2012, for extensive discussion).
In some dialects of northern Portugal, 2‐pl imperative forms are used, printed in italic in
(18), that are elsewhere only found in literary and liturgical texts, in Portugal and in Brazil.
2.2.  The Phonology of inflected verbs
As for the phonology of verb inflection, the problem that has received most attention in
the recent literature concerns the alternations involving root‐final mid‐vowels, analyzed
in Harris (1974), Mateus (1975), Lopez (1979), Redenbarger (1981), and Quicoli (1990),
amongst others. The verbs below containing root‐final mid‐vowels illustrate the alterna-
tions under discussion (when stress is not marked on the root vowel, it falls on the
thematic vowel).
(19) secar morar beber mover seguir cobrir
“dry” “live” “drink” “move” “follow” “cover”
PrInd
s[ɛ́]co m[ɔ́]ro b[é]bo m[ó]vo s[í]go c[ú]bro
s[ɛ́]cas m[ɔ́]ras b[ɛ́]bes m[ɔ́]ves s[ɛ́]ges c[ɔ́]bres
s[ɛ́]ca m[ɔ́]ra b[ɛ́]be m[ɔ́]ve s[ɛ́]ge c[ɔ́]bre
s[e]camos m[o]ramos b[e]bemos m[o]vemos s[e]gimos c[o]brimos
s[e]cais m[o]rais b[e]beis m[o]veis s[e]gis c[o]bris
s[ɛ́]cam m[ɔ́]ram b[ɛ́]bem m[ɔ́]vem s[ɛ́]gem c[ɔ́]brem
PrSub
s[ɛ́]que m[ɔ́]re b[é]ba m[ó]va s[í]ga c[ú]bra
s[ɛ́]ques m[ɔ́]res b[é]bas m[ó]vas s[í]gas c[ú]bras
s[ɛ́]que m[ɔ́]re b[é]ba m[ó]va s[í]ga c[ú ]bra
s[e]quemos m[o]remos b[e]bamos m[o]vamos s[i]gamos c[u]bramos
s[e]cais m[o]reis b[e]bais m[o]vais s[i]gais c[u]brais
s[ɛ́]quem m[ɔ́]rem b[é]bam m[ó]vam s[í]gam c[ú]bram
In (20) the underlying and derived vowel qualities are illustrated with the 1 sg pres. ind.
forms for the verbs in (19).18
(20) ɛ + a > ɛ /sɛk+a+o/ [sɛ́ku] seco
ɔ + a > ɔ /mɔr+a+o/ [mɔ́ru] moro
ɛ + e > e /bɛb+e+o/ [bébu] bebo
ɔ + e > o /mɔv+e+o/ [móvu] movo
ɛ + i > i /sɛg+i+o/ [sígu] sigo
ɔ + i > u /kɔbr+i+o/ [kúbru] cubro
Most authors dealing with the phonology of mid‐vowels in the Portuguese verb agree
that their varying surface shape can be predicted by three generalizations that apply in com-
plementary contexts. One general rule predicts that non‐final unstressed mid‐vowels are
upper‐mid, which accounts for the systematic occurrence of [e, o] in unstressed syllables,
marked in grey in (19). Another rule requires that stressed mid‐vowels are lower‐mid in
verbs (henceforth MiVoLo), unless overruled by a rule of Vowel Harmony (VH) by which the
aperture features of the theme vowel are transferred to the preceding mid‐vowel in those
forms where the theme‐vowel is itself deleted.
200  Luiz Carlos Schwindt and W. Leo Wetzels
To see the effect of MiVoLo, compare the words given in (21a) with those in (21b) (all verbs
represent 3 sg present indicative forms):
(21) a. Noun b. Verb
dem[ɔ́]ra “delay” dem[ɔ́]ra “delay”
esc[ó]va “brush” esc[ɔ́]va “brush”
conv[ɛ́]rsa  “conversation” conv[ɛ́]rsa  “talk”
ap[é]lo “appeal” ap[ɛ́]la “appeal”
Whereas in non‐verbs upper and lower mid‐vowels are contrastive under stress, in verbs,
only lower mid‐vowels occur in stressed syllables.
In the process of VH, the aperture features of the theme vowel are spread to a root‐final
mid‐vowel, when the former is followed by a non‐high vowel. The underlying sequences
that trigger VH in verbs are given in (22).
(22)  Triggering environment for VH
1 sg. pres. ind.
root
...V C0 + {(a),e,i} +
Aperture
[–open1]
pres. subj.
none + o
{e,a} + ...
[+open2]
p/n-marker
theme t/m/a-marker
+ + +
The [±openx
] features in (22) refer to a modeling of vowel height distinctions as proposed
in Clements (1991)
(23)
aperture: i/u e/o ɛ/ɔ a
open1
– – – +
open2
– + + +
open3
– – + +
In the system given in (23), the class of mid‐vowels is defined as [–open1
, +open2
] and
further differentiated on the [open3] tier as either upper‐mid [–open3
] or lower‐mid
[+open3
]. While VH targets the class of mid‐vowels, it applies only in the subset of the
verb forms in which the theme vowel is followed by a non‐high vowel: either the 1 sg pre-
sent indicative suffix –o, or one of the subjunctive morphemes –e (1st conjugation), or –a
(2nd and 3rd conjugations). Interestingly, the triggering environment for VH is identical
to the one in which Vowel Truncation (VoTr) applies. It is precisely because of this
The Morphology and Phonology of Inflection  201
duplication of contexts, that VH was accounted for indirectly in Wetzels (1992, 1995) as
a stability effect of the aperture node with concomitant deletion of its host, i.e. the theme
vowel. This phenomenon of feature stability under deletion is common in tone languages,
when tones remain stable under deletion of the tone‐bearing segment, or in languages
like French, where the nasal feature is stable under deletion of the nasal consonant (com-
pare masc. bon [bõ] with fem. bonne [bɔn] “good”). Similarly, in the case of Portuguese, the
deleted theme vowel leaves its aperture features behind, so that they may be realized on
the preceding mid‐vowel.
While the target for VH is clearly the class of mid‐vowels, it is less obvious whether
all the theme vowels function as triggers. While the upper‐mid quality of unstressed
mid‐vowels is independently explained by a general constraint that disallows lower
mid‐vowels in atonic positions, all the stressed forms of the first conjugation verbs secar
and morar in (19) contain lower mid‐vowels, including the forms for which the
corresponding ones in the 2nd and 3rd conjugation verbs undergo VH. On the assump-
tion that the lower‐mid quality represents the default value for stressed mid‐vowels in
verbs, the lower mid‐vowels in first conjugation verbs can be explained either as the
combined result of VH and MiVoLo or by MiVoLo alone. Confronted with these alterna-
tives, different scholars made different choices. Harris (1974) derives all the lower‐mid
vowels in first conjugation verbs with MiVoLo. Wetzels (1995), Mateus and d’Andrade
(2000), and Carvalho (2004) opt for a generalized VH rule. Wetzels (1992) defines the
class of theme vowels triggering VH as [‐open3
], i.e. only –e, –i, trigger VH, while follow-
ing Harris (1974) in explaining all the first conjugation lower mid‐vowels as the result of
MiVoLo. A number of arguments support the lowering option. First, this hypothesis
­
dispenses with the need to refer to structure preservation to explain why VH triggered
by /a/ does not create low coronal or low labio‐dorsal vowels. Furthermore, the fact
that all cases of non‐assimilatory neutralization of stressed mid‐vowels yield lower mid‐
vowels suggests the lower‐ mid value as the unmarked one for stressed mid‐vowels in
general, as discussed in Wetzels (1992, 2010). Finally, VH in the 2/3 conjugations have
some unexpected exceptions, especially in words that are rarely used, such as the defec-
tive verbs19
explodir “explode,” emergir “emerge,” etc., in which the root mid‐vowel is
often not raised to [i,u], or in the verb querer “want,” with a lower mid‐vowel in the 1 sg
present indicative: qu[ɛ́]ro “I want.” On the other hand, exceptions to MiVoLo can always
be explained by productive rules of phonology, such as mid‐vowel raising before nasal
consonants, which, for many, but not all, Brazilian speakers takes precedence over
MiVoLo: t[ṍ]ma “(s)he takes,” engr[ẽ́]na “it engages.” Another rule raises mid‐vowels in
diphthongs (l[ów]vo “I praise”) and yet another one bans lower mid‐vowels in hiatus:
cor[ó]o “I crown.” Interestingly, for some speakers of BP, MiVoLo takes precedence over
PreNasal Raising and, again for some speakers, monophthongization of [ej] > [e] and
[ow] > [o] feeds MiVoLo: r[ɔ́]ba “(s)he steals” from the verb roubar, or pen[ɛ́]ra “(s)he
sifts” from peneirar, while the mid‐vowel remains upper mid in the corresponding
nouns, also when monophthongized r[ó(w)]bo “theft,” pen[é(j)]ra “sift.” Despite being
restricted to verbs, MiVoLo appears to be a productive rule of Portuguese phonology.20
The hypothesis that all lower mid‐vowels are derived by MiVoLo can explain the asym-
metry in the absence vs. presence of unsystematic exceptions to VH in the a‐class as
compared to the e‐ and i‐classes.
It was observed earlier that VH only applies to root‐final mid‐vowels in those verb forms
in which the theme vowel is truncated before a nuclear vowel, which is either the 1 sg PN
suffix –o in the present indicative or one of the present subjunctive TAM suffixes {e, a} (cf. 22).
The rule in (24) is adapted from Wetzels (1995).
202  Luiz Carlos Schwindt and W. Leo Wetzels
(24) Truncation-cum-Aperture Stability
[[X V] theme + V... ]verb Condition: Target is unstressed
Ø
[–open3]
Aperture
The right vowel, which triggers truncation, is not specified as non‐high, since it is assumed
that VoTr interacts with falling diphthong formation in such forms as the 2‐pl. present indic-
ative meteis/mete+is/ > [metéjs] or the 3‐sg perfect meteu/mete+u/ > [metéw], of the verb
meter “put” (Wetzels 1995, endnotes 2, 3).21
While there are reasons to believe that VoTr is not
restricted to verbs, the fact that the dissociation of the aperture node is specific for the verbal
domain makes it necessary to restrict the scope of rule (24) accordingly. Notice also that the
vowel triggering VoTr does not need to refer to any specific morpheme. While the theme
vowel is truncated, the aperture node of the /e/ and /i/ themes is left behind and is subse-
quently associated with a root‐final mid‐vowel by VH.
In Wetzels (1995) the ordering between MiVoLo, VoTr, and VH was obtained by assuming
that the different phonological rules follow the morphological built up of the verb. MiVoLo
applies to verbal themes and VoTr‐cum‐VH applies as soon as inflectional suffixes are added.
VH associates the aperture node set afloat by VoTr with a mid‐vowel to its left, indepen-
dently of that vowel surfacing as stressed, as in [síga] (</segi+a/)”(that) he follows” or
unstressed, as in [sigámos] (</segi+a+mos) “(that) we follow.”
A different approach to the surface variation of underlying mid‐vowels in verbs is taken
by Carvalho (2004). This author proposes a templatic representation for Portuguese verbs,
the last two syllables of which have the structure in (25) below, adapted from Carvalho
(2004: 23):
(25)
rt
X V (C) C V
rt
rt
σ σ
In (25), “rt” stands for the root node as part of the feature representation of the lexically
specified segments, while the left б represents the last syllable of the verbal root, which may
be light or heavy. The right syllable is light and has its nucleus unspecified. The empty nucleus
is either filled by one of the theme vowels /a, e, i/ or by a vowel of the set /–o, –a, –e/, of
which /–o/ is the 1sg present indicative suffix and /–e/ (1st conjugation) or /‐a/ (2/3 conju-
gations) the present subjunctive markers. The theme vowels, the 1sg present indicative suffix,
and the present subjunctive suffixes are floating, i.e. they are lexically represented without a
skeletal anchor. Since, presumably, each verbal theme is lexicalized with one of the floating
theme vowels, if the 1 sg suffix or one of the subjunctive markers is inserted at the melodic
tier, the type of structure is created as illustrated in (26), with the verbs comprometer “guar-
antee” and dormir “sleep” (for clarity, theme vowels are in boldface):
The Morphology and Phonology of Inflection  203
(26)
c. /dɔrm{o, a}/
C V C C V
d r m
i o/a
k N
C V C C C V C V C V
o o o
o/a
e
a. /koNpromɛt{o,a}/
p r m t
ɛ
[kõmprométu/a]
ɔ
[dúrm{u,a}]
d. /dɔrmi/
C V C C V
d r m
i
k N
C V C C C V] C V C V
e
b. /koNpromɛte/
p r m t
ɛ
ɔ
[dɔrmi]
[kõmpromɛti]
o
The forms comprometo/comprometa in (26a) represent the 1sg present indicative and the
1/3sg present subjunctive, respectively. Both forms comprise a floating vowel morpheme,
which is linked to the rightmost V‐position of the template via a directionality parameter
that maps floating vowels onto their skeletal anchors from right to left, as indicated by the
dotted association line. The same parameter links the theme vowel to the empty V position
in the 3sg present indicative compromete in (26b). In (26a,c), after {o, a} association has taken
place, there is no empty V‐position left to accommodate the theme vowel, which is therefore
associated with the last vowel of the root. However, as the output forms in (26a,c) show, the
theme vowel does not substitute the root vowel, since assimilation exclusively involves the
aperture features. Therefore, depending on whether or not the theme vowel can be attached
to an empty skeletal slot, it is represented at the melodic tier either as a fully specified vowel
segment or by its corresponding aperture features alone. According to Carvalho, this must
be so because “… there are no front rounded vowels in EP, … only the theme vowel’s height
feature is compatible with both root vowels” (2004: 25). In other words, in order to avoid
ungrammatical *[dýrmu/a] instead of [dúrmu/a] for the verb dormir “sleep” or *[mǿvu/a]
instead of [móvu/a] for mover “move,” when the morphological structure contains one of
the floating vowel morphemes to the right of the theme vowel, the latter is represented only
by its aperture features. According to Carvalho (2004) the templatic approach to VH should
be preferred for its greater explanatory power over the derivational analysis proposed by
Wetzels (1995).
Although a proper assessment of Carvalho’s proposal, which is not worked out in great
detail, is difficult to achieve, a number of problems of the templatic approach are apparent.
Independent evidence for templatic morphology is lacking in Portuguese, a language in
which the vocalic, consonantal, and skeletal tiers have no independent lexical or morpho-
syntactic meanings, as they do in the Semitic languages. Also, the proposed association
parameter must be considered language‐specific, because its directionality is marked and
because it functions not only as a mechanism mapping segments to empty skeletal positions,
but also as a linking device attaching floating aperture nodes to underlyingly specified posi-
tions. Moreover, VH exclusively targets final mid‐vowel in verb roots. Although this target
condition is not expressed in the structures in (26) above to which the association parameter
204  Luiz Carlos Schwindt and W. Leo Wetzels
applies, it must be there, since, for example, /vive+o/ (compare viver “live”) does not
become *[vévu] “I live,” but [vívu]. One must furthermore raise the question of how the
grammar decides whether the theme vowel is represented by its fully specified root segment
or by its aperture features alone. As Carvalho claims, this choice can be derived from struc-
ture preservation, but it is hard to see how: why do /kompromɛte+{o,a}/ and /dɔrmi+{o, a}/
not become [kompromét{o,a}] and [dórm{o, a}], both with an upper mid‐vowel, as a
consequence of the spreading of the [–open3
] feature alone?22
Or why do these forms not surface
as [kompromét{o,a}] and [dírm{o, a}], with the theme vowel substituting the mid‐vowel?
Both these operations are structure preserving, besides the one that actually occurs, which
involves the spreading of the aperture node. Obviously, the grammar must contain an
explicit statement expressing that in the relevant forms all and only the aperture features of
the theme vowel are transferred to the root‐final mid‐vowel.
Carvalho’s skepticism regarding the analysis in Wetzels (1995) concerns the use of
morphological categories in the statement of rule (24) and the fact that the trigger vowels of
VoTr are non‐high, while the target must be unstressed, which restrictions make the rule
even more stipulative. In Wetzels (1992: 134) it was proposed for Portuguese non‐verbs that
roots are lexicalized with their theme vowels, which hypothesis would entail the existence of
a rule which deletes unstressed vowels in hiatus outside of the verb domain: facada “knifing”
from faca “knife” /faka+ada/ > [fakáda]23
. Notice also that, even if the proposed lexicaliza-
tion of non‐verbal themes, which is controversial, turns out to be incorrect, MiVoLo in verbs
shows that productive rules can be limited to a specific lexical category. Furthermore, the fact
that VoTr interacts with diphthongization could easily be seen as independent plausibility
for the existence of VoTr, which together with diphthongization militates against hiatus in
complementary contexts. Finally, the fact that VoTr targets unstressed vowels is almost a pre-
dictable characteristic of truncation rules cross‐linguistically.24
A number of proposals describing the changes that underlying mid‐vowels undergo in
verbs were proposed in the framework of Optimality Theory (OT). One OT account of these
facts is proposed by Lee (2003). Within the OT tradition, which explains phonological pat-
terns with recourse to a language‐specific ranking of universal constraints, Lee accounts for
what is traditionally treated as truncation by a high ranking of the Onset constraint which
requires syllables to have onsets. Strategies used by languages to repair illicit vowel
sequences involve truncation, C‐epenthesis, diphthongization, or coalescence. According to
Lee, the vowel alternations in the Portuguese verb are best understood as a case of vowel
coalescence, in which two underlying vowels /V1
V2
/ are represented by a single surface
vowel [V1,2
] containing elements of both /V1
V2
/. Lee’s proposal can be globally described by
the figure in (27) below:
(27)
V1,2 (repair: coalescence)
protected by faithfulness
V1(C)]rootV2]theme +V3
constraint violation: Onset
High‐ranked Onset forces the elimination of the hiatus between the theme vowel V2
and
the relevant 1 sg present indicative and the present subjunctive suffixes represented by V3
.
Another active constraint accounts for the fact that an underlying suffix surfaces unaltered,
assuring that vowel coalescence affects V1
and V2
. A Max[F] constraint protects the features
The Morphology and Phonology of Inflection  205
[+atr] and [+high] of the theme vowels –i, –e from deletion: /dɔ1
rmi2
+o/ →[dú1,2
rmo]
(→[dúrmu] by word‐final vowel neutralization).
One unexpected aspect of Lee’s analysis is the idea that coalescence may involve vowels
that are not immediately adjacent. This view of the phenomenon requires some principled
mechanism to avoid the surfacing of the aperture features of the theme vowel on a differ-
ent vowel than the final root vowel. Expectedly, other instances of coalescence in Portuguese
involve strictly adjacent vowels such as, for example, the one discussed above for the past
perfect form bati “I hit” from /bat]root
i]theme
+ø]tam
+i]pn
/ or /bat]root
e]theme
+ø]tam
+i]pn
/ (see
(16.a.3) above). In these forms, coalescence involves strictly adjacent /ii/ or /ei/.
A rather different explanation of the vowel alternations under discussion is proposed in
Schwindt (2007). In Schwindt’s analysis a general Agree constraint requires the last vowel of the
verb root to agree in height with the underlying theme vowel. This constraint competes with two
conjoined constraints: Low&Trunc]theme
requires verb forms to surface without a theme vowel
when their last root vowel is low, while StressRoot&Ident‐IO]stem
penalizes unstressed verb
roots that change the lexical specification of the root vowel, expressing the generalization that
MiVoLo and VH are restricted to accented vowels. The conjoined constraints are unordered and
together dominate Agree, as shown below. To facilitate easy reading, we have in (28) indicated
partial, and therefore irrelevant, violation of conjoined constraints between parentheses.
(28)
/beb+e+o/
1sg.pr.ind.
Stress‐Root&Ident‐IO]stem
Low&Trunc]theme
Agree
a. bébo	 ☺ (*Low)
b. bɛ́bo (*IO) *!
/beb+e+ø/
1sg.pres.ind.
c. bébe *!
d. bɛ́be	 ☺ (*IO) (*Trunc) *
/seg+i+o/
1sg.pres.ind.
e. sígo	 ☺ (*IO) (*Low)
f. ségo (*Low) *!
g. sɛ́go (*IO) *!
/seg+i+mos/
1pl.pres.ind.
h. segímos	 ☺ (*Str‐Rt) * *
i. sigímos *! *
The constraint Stress‐Root&Ident‐IO]stem
penalizes in unstressed roots the surface occur-
rence of features or feature values without an identical underlying correspondent, where the
underlying specification of the mid‐vowel is assumed to be upper‐mid, such as it appears in
the unstressed root vowel of the infinitive (beber “drink,” seguir “follow”). This can be observed
in the (fatally) penalized candidate (28i), in which the root vowel is not upper‐mid on top of
being stressless. The activity of the constraint Low&Trunc]theme
can be seen by comparing the
forms in (28c–d), both surfacing with the theme vowel, of which it eliminates the one with the
upper‐mid root vowel. All the forms that do not violate the conjoined constraints are passed
206  Luiz Carlos Schwindt and W. Leo Wetzels
on to Agree, which favors the candidates in which the root vowel agrees in height with the
underlying theme vowel (28a, c, e, i). In order to account for VH and truncation in the forms
of the subjunctive, Schwindt posits a higher ranked Output–Output constraint (cf. Benua,
1997) which requires the root of all the forms of the present subjunctive to be identical with
the root of the corresponding 1sg present indicative form. As Schwindt (2007) himself points
out, the choice of the 1sg present indicative as the base for explaining the sound structure of
the subjunctive forms awaits independent confirmation.
3. Discussion
As we have tried to show in this chapter, the discussion concerning the phonology and mor-
phology of inflection in Portuguese involves the traditional issues and controversies
concerning the nature of phonological rules or constraints and whether, or to what extent,
these are allowed to refer to morphological categories. Answers to these questions change
with successive paradigms and among the proponents of a specific paradigm little agreement
exists. With regard to the singular/plural alternations in nouns ending in a nasal diphthong
and the vowel alternations in the verb, an equally fundamental question concerns the way in
which the observed variation should be interpreted in terms of the architecture of the
grammar, as lexically specified allomorphy or as rules or constraints. We have shown that
the relation between singular nouns ending in a nasal diphthong and their corresponding
plurals is not completely predictable. Scholars tend to agree that MiVoLo is productive as a
morphologically conditioned rule of Portuguese, but it remains unclear how exactly it is
represented in the speakers’mind. As for VH, an experimental study by Schwindt and
Quadros (2009) showed inconclusive results with regard to its productivity. In an oral and a
written production test, students were asked to deliver, for a given infinitive nonce verb with
an /i/ or /e/ theme, a number of inflected forms, including the ones without a theme vowel,
in order to check for the productivity of VH in the latter forms. In another test, students were
asked to provide the corresponding infinitive for inflected forms in which VH had applied.
No conclusive evidence for a productive rule of VH was found in the results of the first two
tests. However, the third test showed that most students had no problem relating the harmo-
nized vowel to the appropriate theme vowel in the infinitive. If one is allowed to interpret
these contradicting results as proof for the low productivity of VH, an allomorphic lexical
representation stating the identity in aperture degree between harmonizing root vowels and
the /i/, /e/ theme vowels could be modeled as in (29), in which the shared aperture node in
the special case contains the aperture features of the –i, or –e thematic vowel:
(29)
ap apx apx
[–open1][–open3]
[…V C0 V]theme ~ […V C0 V]theme /1 sg pres. ind., pres. subj
[+open2]
In (29), the left allomorph represents the default case, while the right allomorph
represents the special case, in which the prefinal vowel shares its aperture specification
with that of the theme vowel as it appears in the default form. The lexicalization of the
The Morphology and Phonology of Inflection  207
effect of VH, of course, eliminates VH as a productive rule of Portuguese but still
implies the necessity of VoTr. Future studies will hopefully provide additional evidence
disambiguating which part of the alternations under discussion in this chapter is fully
productive and which part is not, with the ensuing consequences for the architecture of
the phonological grammar.
Notes
1	Some authors question the inflectional character of gender in Portuguese, given its unsystematic
correspondence with sex and because of its somewhat irregular distribution. Villalva (2008), while
recognizing that nouns must have a specified value for gender, prefers to call it gender variance,
rather than inflection. We consider this less relevant from the point of view of this chapter, since
our main focus is on the interaction of the morphological process with phonology, regardless of the
precise morphological status of what we have called the gender marker.
2	Only a small part of Portuguese nouns, around five percent, refer to animate concepts, and of those
not all are overtly marked (cf. Rocha 1994). Nevertheless, the opposition “o/a” for animate nouns is
so strongly associated with the male/female dichotomy that is not uncommon to hear children
producing non‐existing forms like o crianço “the (boy) child,” shaped after the noun criança
meaning “child,” wrongly interpreted as “girl child.”
3	 The phonological representation of the sibilant and rhotic consonants is a recurrent issue in
Portuguese phonology. We use capitals for avoiding the suggestion of taking position with regard
to their precise lexical representation. See Chapter 4 for more detailed discussion.
4	Schwindt (2011), in a optimalistic approach of realizational morphology (cf. Wolf, 2008), assumes
that the Portuguese class markers –a and –o, and their respective homophonous gender markers,
are merged at the surface (eg. menin+a CL1
+aF
→ menina CL1,F
/meninoCL2
+oM
→ menino CL2,M
).
Words ending in [e], on the other hand, realize only the class marker (a lent+eCL3
+øF
/ o
pent+eCL3
+øM). This priority scale is determined by the ranking MAX‐M(CL3) >> MAX‐M(FEM)
>> MAX‐M(CL2) >> MAX‐M(CL1) >> MAX‐M(MASC).
5	See Wetzels (1997) for arguments that support the underlying representation of nasal diphthongs
as oral vowels followed by a high nasal vowel.
6	One does find surface [õw̃] as the optional realization of word‐final nasal vowel [õ] in both EP and
BP, usually represented lexically as /oN/. In a descriptive model allowing for phonological levels,
neutralization of the /oũ/ ~ /aũ/ contrast and the variable realization of /oN/ as [õw̃] could be
assigned to different levels.
7	One may hear capitões for capitães “captains,” alemões for alemães “Germans,” etc.
8	 The cluster /rs/ in internal coda is found in a few words in Portuguese (e.g. perspectiva “perspective”
or perspicaz “perspicacious”) all of which are formed by the Latin prefix per, which suggests that the
constraint prohibiting this sequence is inoperative in structures of the type (pseudo-) prefix+base.
9	 Mateus and d’Andrade (2000) propose, in an autosegmental analysis, that the final consonant of
the stem be associated with a new syllable when the plural suffix is added, of which the empty
nucleus is filled by an epenthetic vowel. This vowel, in turn, spreads its voicing feature to the pre-
ceding consonant (e.g. france[s]es → france[z]es “French pl”).
10	 In EP and in a small part of southern Brazil, the velarized pronunciation [ɫ] of the lateral is also
found in the syllable coda. The coronal variant, [l], however, can still be observed among the
descendants of Italian immigrants and, more generally, in fixed expressions across word‐
boundaries (e.g. ma[l]educado “impolite”) and in suffixal derivation (e.g. mal > maléfico “maleficent”).
This would define a synchronic rule /l/ → [w] in BP as the result of rule telescoping, as described
in Tasca (2000), which process historically goes from the coronal [l], passing through the velarized
variant [ɫ], to the glide /w/.
11	 We observe here a derivational case of gender change, with both words having a different meaning.
We choose this example for lack of an alternative involving an inflectional gender change showing
the non‐occurrence of the alternation [ɔ]masc
~ [o]fem
.
208  Luiz Carlos Schwindt and W. Leo Wetzels
12	See Chapter 10 for a more comprehensive discussion of evaluative suffixes.
13	Since space does not allow to discuss irregular verbs, we restrict ourselves to the regular inflection.
We will also not discuss the compound tenses (tenho falado “I have said/have been saying,” tinha
falado “I had said/had been saying,” teria falado “I would have said,” etc.), which do not involve
any different morphology or phonology.
14	 By representing the 3pl as a nasal labial vowel, instead of a nasal consonant /N/, as most scholars pro-
pose, we assume a rule that turns this vowel into a coronal high vowel after /e/, as in batem [batẽj̃] “they
hit,” but also in partem [ẽj̃] “they leave”. In traditional analyses, the 2/3sg. and 3pl. pres. ind. forms
of the 3rd conjugation verbs, as in partes, parte, partem are considered to contain an /e/ allomorph.
Given the general rule of unstressed word-final /e/ raising, we consider that, except for some parts
of Brazil, especially in the South, where /e/-raising is variable, /i/ is underlying in all forms of the
3rd conjugation verbs, except for partem. In EP, the derived diphthong [ẽj̃] is pronounced [ɐ̃�]
(cf. Mateus and d’Andrade 2000: 47).
15	 Also compare the past participles partido and batido.
16	 In Mateus and d’Andrade (2000), the sequence /raũ/, or rather /rãũ/, is considered a PN suffix,
which allows for a uniform zero‐representation of the TAM suffix in the past perfect. Here we
opt for a uniform representation of the 3 pl suffix as /ũ/.
17	 Thanks to Marta Scherre for useful discussion.
18	 We assume that underlying mid‐vowels are lower‐mid, defined as [‐open3
] in the system in
(23) below. However, an underlying representation unspecified for the [open3
] feature, or one in
which underlying mid‐vowels are specified as [‐open3
] would not interfere with the analysis
proposed.
19	 This means that some verbs that are classified as defective by some grammarians are not so in
reality, since the “missing” forms are sometimes produced spontaneously by native speakers. See
also Nevins, Freitas, and Demulakis (2015).
20	Surprisingly, for some speakers, MiLoVe is blocked for coronal mid‐vowels in verbs derived from
nouns that contain a stressed upper mid‐vowel followed by a palatal consonant. Compare ele
inv[ɛ́]ja “he envies” from inv[ɛ́]ja “envy” with ele (se) averm[é]lha “he reddens” from verm[é]lho
“red.” For discussion, see Wetzels (1992: 49). The only non‐derived 1st conjugation verb that,
according to the norm, is pronounced with an upper mid‐vowel is fechar “close,” which in BP is
usually pronounced with the lower mid‐vowel, as in ele f[ɛ́]cha “he closes.”
21	 Below, we return briefly to this topic as well as to the requirement for the deleted theme vowel to
be unstressed.
22	 This would mean that the low theme vowel /a/ does not participate as a trigger for VH, a fact
which remains without empirical consequences, since, as we have seen, stressed mid‐vowels not
targeted by VH generally surface as lower‐mid, as is also admitted by Carvalho (2004).
23	 A similar hypothesis, based on different arguments, was proposed by Bermúdez‐Otero (2013) for
Spanish.
24	 As was extensively discussed in Wetzels (1992: 25–30).
References
Benua, Laura. 1997. Transderivational Identity
Phonological Relation between Words. PhD.
University of Massachusetts at Amherst.
Bermúdez‐Otero, Ricardo. 2013. The Spanish
Lexicon Stores Stems with Theme Vowels, not
Roots with Inflectional Class Features. Probus
25,1, 3–103.
Bisol, Leda. 1998. A Nasalidade, um Velho Tema.
D.E.L.T.A. 14, 27–46.
Booij, Geert. 1993. Against Split Morphology.
In Booij, Geert and Jaap van Marle (eds),
Yearbook of Morphology. 1993. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 27–49.
Booij, Geert. 1996. Inherent Versus Contextual
Inflection and the Split Morphology
Hypothesis. In Booij, Geert and Jaap van Marle
(eds), Yearbook of morphology 1995. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1–16.
The Morphology and Phonology of Inflection  209
Câmara Jr. Joaquim. M. 1970. Estrutura da Língua
Portuguesa. Petrópolis, Vozes.
Carvalho, Joaquim, B. 2004. Templatic
Morphology in the Portuguese Verb. Nouveaux
Départs en Phonologie. Trudel Meisenburg and
Maria Selig (eds.), Tübigen, Gunter Narr
Verlag, 13–32.
Clements, G. Nick. 1991. Vowel Height
Assimilation in Bantu Languages. Working
Papers of the Cornell Phonetics Laboratory 5,
37–76
Harris, James. 1974. Evidence from Portuguese
for the ‘Elsewhere Condition’ in Phonology.
Linguistic Inquiry. 5, 61–80.
Hooper, Joan Bybee. 1976. An Introduction to
Natural Generative Phonology. New York,
Academic Press.
Lee, Seung‐Hwa. 2003. Mid Vowel Alternation in
Verbal Stems in Brazilian Portuguese. Journal of
Portuguese Linguistics, 2,2, 87–100.
Lopez, Barbara. 1979. The Sound Pattern of
Brazilian Portuguese. PhD. UCLA.
Mateus, Maria Helena, M. 1975. Aspectos da
Fonologia do Português. Lisboa: Instituto
Nacional de Investigação Científica.
Mateus, Maria Helena, M. and Ernesto
d’Andrade. 2000. The Phonology of Portuguese.
Oxford University Press.
Miranda, Ana Ruth, M. 2000. A Metafonia Nominal
(Português do Brasil). PhD. Porto Alegre:
Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio
Grande do Sul.
Nevins, Andrew, Freitas, Maria Luisa, and Gean
Damulakis. 2015. Defective Verbs in Portuguese:
Where Phonology Steers the Learner. Paper
presented at the 2015 Linguistic Symposium
on Romance Languages. Campinas, Brazil.
Quicoli, A. Carlos. 1990. Harmony, Lowering,
and Nasalization in Brazilian Portuguese.
Lingua, 80, 295–331.
Redenbarger, Wayne. J. 1981. Articulator Features
and Portuguese Vowel Height. Cambridge.
Harvard University.
Rocha, L. C. A. 1994. Flexão e Derivação no
português. Cadernos de Pesquisa. NAPq, Belo
Horizonte, FALE/UFMG 19.
Schwindt, Luiz Carlos; Quadros, Emanuel Souza
de. (2009) A Harmonia Vocálica Verbal no
Léxico Dicionarizado do PB. Letrônica, v. 2,
p. 58‐70. [http://revistaseletronicas.pucrs.br/
ojs/index.php/letronica/index]
Scherre, Maria Marta P. 2007. Aspectos sincrônicos
e diacrônicos do imperativo gramatical no
português brasileiro. Alfa, 51(1), p. 189–222.
Scherre, Maria Marta P. 2012. Padrões
sociolinguísticos do português brasileiro: a
importância da pesquisa variacionista.
Tabuleiro de Letras, Revista do Programa de
Pós‐Graduação em Estudos de Linguagens.
Universidade do Estado da Bahia.
Schwindt, Luiz Carlos. 2007. Paradigmatic
correspondences in the Brazilian Portuguese
Verbal Vowel System. Acta Linguistica
Hungarica, v. 54, p. 35–50.
Schwindt, Luiz Carlos. 2011, Zeros na Morfologia
Nominal Portuguesa à Luz da Optimal
Interleaving Theory. ReVEL. 5, 264–276.
[www.revel.inf.br].
Stephany, Ursula. 1982. Inflectional and Lexical
Morphology: a Linguistic Continuum.
Glossologia 1: 27–55.
Tasca, Maria. 2000. A Preservação da Lateral
Alveolar na Coda: uma Explicação Possível.
Letras de Hoje 35, 1. Porto Alegre: EDIPUCRS.
331–354.
Villalva, Alina. 2008. Morfologia do Português.
Lisboa: Universidade Aberta.
Wetzels, W. Leo. 1992. Mid Vowel Neutralization
in Brazilian Portuguese, B. Abaurre and W. L.
Wetzels (eds.), Fonologia do Português, Número
Especial dos Cadernos de Estudos
Lingüísticos. IEL/ UNICAMP: 19–55.
Wetzels, W. Leo. 1995. Mid‐Vowel Alternations in
the Brazilian Portuguese Verb, Phonology 12,
281–304
Wetzels, W. Leo. 1997. The Lexical Representation
of Nasality in Brazilian Portuguese. Probus 9,
203–232.
Wetzels, W. Leo. 2010. Aperture Features and
the Representation of Vowel Neutralization
in Brazilian Portuguese. Elisabeth Hume,
John Goldsmith, and W. Leo Wetzels (eds.),
Tones and Features. De Gruyter, Berlin,
331‐359.
Wolf, Matthew. 2008. Optimal Interleaving: Serial
Phonology‐Morphology Interaction in a
Constraint‐Based Model. PhD University of
Massachusetts, Amherst. ROA‐ 996.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
In the transition from vulgar Latin to the Romance languages, one of the most important
innovations is the development of clitic pronouns: while vulgar Latin had only one series of
personal pronouns, the Romance languages introduce a striking morphological separation
of strong and weak pronouns. In all Romance languages, these weak pronouns became clitic
elements, mainly with an object function, sometimes also with a subject function (Wanner
2001). Given their phonological deficiency and their highly idiosyncratic syntax, clitic pro-
nouns exhibit properties which are typical neither of words nor of affixes. They therefore
constitute a challenge to phonology, morphology and syntax.
This paper describes and investigates the phonological, morphological and syntactic prop-
erties of clitic pronouns in Modern European Portuguese (EP) and Brazilian Portuguese (BP). It
will be shown that the clitic systems of both languages are quite distinct from each other. While
in EP object clitic pronouns may occur both in preverbal and postverbal position and show cru-
cial morphophonological differences according to their position with respect to the verb, in BP
clitic pronouns are mostly restricted to the preverbal position and show a tendency to be
replaced by strong pronouns or to be omitted. In addition, BP differs from EP by the emergence
of weak forms of subject pronouns which show some typical characteristics of clitic elements.
The chapter is organized as follows: Section 2 offers an overview of the inventory of object
clitic pronouns in Portuguese and describes typical properties. Section 3 focuses on clitic
pronouns in EP, discussing the asymmetry between preverbal and postverbal clitic pronouns
as evidenced in phonology, morphology and syntax. Section 4 deals with BP and looks in
detail at BP‐specific properties, such as preverbal placement, loss of object clitic pronouns
and emergence of subject clitic pronouns. Section 5 offers a brief summary.
2. Survey
2.1.  Inventory of pronominal clitic forms
The full paradigm of object and reflexive clitics in EP and BP is shown in Table 12.1.2
Both Portuguese varieties encode identical morphosyntactic distinctions with respect
to case, number and gender. There are three case distinctions for 3rd person pronouns
(i.e., accusative, dative and reflexive). For 1st and 2nd person pronouns, there is only a
two‐case distinction, due to the syncretism between accusative and dative forms. Gender
Clitic Pronouns: Phonology,
Morphology, and Syntax
Ana R. Luís and Georg A. Kaiser1
12
Clitic Pronouns: Phonology, Morphology, and Syntax  211
distinctions are only found in the singular and plural forms, but more will be said about 3 sg/pl
accusative forms in BP.
There are also important differences. In spoken BP, vos (2pl) is being replaced by the full
pronoun vocês “you.pl”; te (2sg) can be replaced by você “you.sg,” and o(s)/a(s) (3sg/pl acc)
by ele(s)/ela(s) “he/she/it/they.” In addition, lhe (3sg dat) has developed syncretism, since it
can be used as a 2sg or 3sg accusative clitic. BP also differs from EP due to the emergence of
weak subject pronouns, which exhibit some typical properties of clitics.
2.2.  Pronominal clitic clusters
The clitic forms in Table 12.1 can combine into clusters, but only in EP. In BP, verbs are not
allowed to express their arguments by more than one clitic. This section will therefore be
essentially surveying properties from EP.
2.2.1.  Clitic sequences
Clusters in EP have at most two clitic elements. One common pattern is given in (1), with the
clitic se followed by a dative clitic:
(1)  a. Dá‐se‐lhe o remédio… (EP)
give.3sg‐se‐dat.3sg the medicine
“You give him/her the medicine ...”
b. Passou‐se‐me!
passed‐se‐dat.1sg
“I forgot!”
Clitic clusters usually exhibit morphophonological alternations, as happens when 3rd person
accusative pronouns are preceded by 1st or 2nd person plural dative pronouns. This feature
combination triggers “reciprocal” allomorphy inside the cluster, given that both clitics
undergo shape alternations (Crysmann 2002, Spencer and Luís 2005).
Table 12.1  Clitic forms for object and reflexive pronouns.
Direct Indirect Reflexive
1sg me
EP [mǝ]/BP [me]
2sg te
EP [tǝ]/BP [te]
3sg.masc o
BP/EP [u]
lhe
EP [ʎǝ]/
BP [ʎe]
se
EP [sǝ]/
BP [se]
3sg.fem a
EP [ɐ]/BP [a]
1pl nos
EP [nuʃ]/BP [nus]
2pl vos
EP [vuʃ]
3pl.masc os
EP [uʃ]/BP[us] lhes
EP [ʎǝʃ]/BP [ʎes]
se
EP [sǝ]/
BP [se]
3pl.fem as
EP [ɐʃ]/BP[as]
212  Ana R. Luís and Georg A. Kaiser
(2) a. Deu‐no‐lo. (*nos‐o) (EP)
gave‐dat.1pl‐acc.3sg.masc
“S/he gave it to us.”
b. Ninguém vo‐lo deu. (*vos‐o)
no one dat.2pl‐acc.3sg.masc gave
“No one gave it to them.”
Table  12.2 illustrates the complete inventory of clitic clusters displaying cluster internal
reciprocal allomorphy.
The order in which clitics can appear is seriously restricted and does not reflect the order
of nominal phrases bearing the same functions. In EP, indirect object NPs can either precede
direct object NPs (3a) or follow them (3b), but with clitic pronouns accusative clitics must
always follow dative, as in (3c) and (3d).
(3) a. A criança deu o livro ao vizinho. (acc > dat) (EP)
the child gave the book to‐the neighbor
“The child gave the book to the neighbor.”
b. A criança deu ao vizinho o livro. (dat > acc)
the child gave to‐the neighbor the book
“The child gave the neighbor the book.”
c. A criança deu‐lho. (dat > acc)
the child gave‐dat.3sg‐acc.3pl.masc
“The child gave it to him.”
d. *A criança deu o lhe. (acc > dat)
the child gave‐acc.3pl.masc‐dat.3sg
“The child gave it to him.”
Clitic clusters are subject not only to linearization constraints, but also to feature
­
co‐occurrence restrictions, given that not all logical person-number combinations are
possible within the dat > acc sequence. For example, 1st and 2nd person clitics cannot
co‐occur (i.e., *I/II‐I/II):
(4) *O João entregou‐me‐te. (*1/2) (EP)
the João handed over‐dat.1sg‐acc.2sg
“João handed you over to me.”
Again, there appears to be no syntactic or semantic motivation for this restriction, since 2nd
person accusative clitics can combine freely with a strong pronoun:
(5) O João entregou‐te a mim. (EP)
the João handed‐acc.2sg to me
“João handed you over to me.”
Table 12.2  Clitic clusters in EP.
3sg.masc.acc 3sg.fem.acc 3pl.masc.acc 3pl.masc.acc
1pl.dat no‐lo
(*nos‐o)
no‐la
(*nos‐a)
no‐los
(*nos‐os)
no‐las
(*nos‐as)
2pl.dat vo‐lo
(*vos‐o)
vo‐la
(*vos‐a)
vo‐los
(*vos‐os)
vo‐las
(*vos‐as)
Clitic Pronouns: Phonology, Morphology, and Syntax  213
2.2.2.  Portmanteau forms
Clitic clusters may also express two clitic pronouns as one portmanteau form. These
clusters always involve the dative clitics me, te and lhe/s followed by any 3rd person
accusative clitic:
(6) A Maria ofereceu‐ma. (*me‐a) (EP)
the Maria offered‐dat.1sg&acc.3sg.fem
“Maria gave it to me.”
All possible portmanteau clusters in EP are illustrated in Table 12.3.
Some portmanteau clusters also exhibit syncretism: when 3rd person dative clitics combine
with 3rd person accusative clitics, the number features of the dative clitic neutralize. Hence,
lho can mean either “it to him/her” or to “it to them”:
(7) Compra‐lho! (*lhe‐o) (EP)
buy.imp‐dat.3&acc.3sg.masc
“Buy it for him/her/them!”
The complete set of syncretic clusters in EP is illustrated in Table 12.4.
2.2.3.  Clitic sequences with portmanteau forms
Finally, clusters may also comprise a portmanteau clitic preceded by impersonal se, realizing
three distinct sets of morphosyntactic clitic features:
(8) a. pagam‐se‐lhas (EP)
pay.3pl‐se‐dat.3/acc.3pl.fem
“you pay them to him/her/them”
b. dão‐se‐lhos
give.3pl‐se‐dat.3/acc.3pl.masc
“you give them to him/her/them”
Summing up, then, clitic clusters in EP exhibit a number of morphophonological properties
that are typical of affixes.
Table 12.3  Portmanteau forms with 1st and 2nd person dative clitics in EP.
3sg.masc.acc 3sg.fem.acc 3pl.masc.acc 3pl.fem.acc
1sg.dat mo (*me‐o) ma (*me‐a) mos (*me‐os) mas (*me‐as)
2sg.dat to (*te‐o) ta (*te‐a) tos (*te‐os) tas (*te‐as)
Table 12.4  Portmanteau clusters.
3sg.masc.acc 3sg.fem.acc 3pl.masc.acc 3pl.fem.acc
3sg.dat/3pl.dat lho lha lhos lhas
214  Ana R. Luís and Georg A. Kaiser
2.3.  Typical properties of clitic pronouns in EP and BP
Pronominal clitics in both BP and EP exhibit typical properties that are common to other
Romance clitics (Kayne 1975, Zwicky and Pullum 1983). One typical phonological property is
their prosodic deficiency, which constitutes one of the hallmarks of clitics (Nespor and Vogel
2007, Spencer and Luís 2012).
Due to this deficiency clitic pronouns cannot stand alone nor can they be contrastively
stressed, as illustrated with data from EP:
(9) a. Quem (é) que o João viu? *ME. (BP/EP)
who (is) that the João saw yesterday? acc.1sg
“Who did João see yesterday? Me.”
b. *Querem TE pedir ou querem ME pedir? (BP/EP)
want‐acc.2sg or want‐acc.1sg
“Do they want to ask me or do they want to ask you?”
In addition, clitic pronouns can neither be topicalized nor coordinated:
(10) a. *Foi A que ele convidou para a festa. (BP/EP)
was acc.3sg.fem that he invited for the party
“It was her that he invited to the party.”
b. *Não sei se o Filipe TE e ME convida para a festa.
not know if the Filipe acc.2sg and acc.1sg invite for the party
“I don’t know if Filipe invited you and me to the party.”
One further property is the fact that they must combine with a stressed lexical item with
which they form a prosodic word. This item, which is generally the thematic verb, serves as
the host to which clitics attach postverbally or preverbally.3
(11) a. O João chamou=me ontem? (EP)
the João called acc.1sg yesterday
“Did João call me yesterday?”
b. Você não me=chamou ontem? (BP/BP)
you.sg not acc.1sg called yesterday
“Didn’t you call me yesterday?”
Phonologically, EP/BP object clitics are positioned outside the “three‐syllable window” and,
therefore, do not affect the stress pattern of the verb. In (12), lexical stress falls on the ante-
penultimate syllable in the presence or absence of a postverbal clitic:
(12) a. com.prÁ.va.mos (BP/BP)
“we bought”
b. comprÁ.va.mos‐lhe (BP/BP)
bought.1pl‐dat.3sg
“we bought him/her”
3.  Clitic pronouns in European Portuguese
3.1. Introduction
In this section we examine the placement (3.2), the phonology (3.3) and the morphology (3.4)
of EP clitic pronouns. The EP clitic system stands out from the other Romance languages for
two reasons: on the one hand, because preverbal and postverbal placement is determined
Clitic Pronouns: Phonology, Morphology, and Syntax  215
entirely by specific syntactic contexts rather than by the finiteness of the verb; on the other,
because the default placement of clitic pronouns is postverbal, rather than preverbal. Our
evidence also shows that preverbal and postverbal clitics differ from each other in a number
of ways: preverbal clitics are i) dependent on the presence of proclitic triggers, ii) can be
separated from the verb and iii) take wide scope over coordination, while postverbal clitics
are adjacent to the verb and exhibit allomorphic alternations. Similarly, enclitics show lexical
phonology, whereas proclitics attach postlexically.
3.2.  The positioning of object clitic pronouns
3.2.1.  Postverbal placement: the default position
Preverbal clitic pronouns in EP are excluded from first position in affirmative imperatives:
(13) a. *Me chama! (EP)
acc.1sg call.imp
b. Chama‐me!
call.imp acc.1sg
“Call me!”
This behavior also holds for contexts such as declarative clauses or yes–no interrogative
clauses:
(14) a. *Me chama. (EP)
acc.1sg call.prs.3sg
b. Chama‐me.
call.prs.3sg acc.1sg
“(S)he calls me.”
(15) a. *Me chamaste? (EP)
acc.1sg called.2sg
b. Chamaste‐me?
called.2sg‐acc.1sg
“Did you call me?”
In “normal” declarative clauses, the clitic pronoun always appears postverbally:
(16) a. *Ontem me chamou. (EP)
yesterday acc.1sg called
b. Ontem chamou‐me.
yesterday called‐acc.1sg
“(S)he called me yesterday.”
(17) a. *A médica me chamou. (EP)
the doctor acc.1sg called
b. A médica chamou‐me.
the doctor called‐acc.1sg
“The (woman) doctor called me.”
In declarative clauses that contain complex tenses with a participle or a gerund verb form,
the clitic pronoun occurs after the finite auxiliary.
216  Ana R. Luís and Georg A. Kaiser
(18) a. O João tem‐me chamado. (EP)
the João has‐acc.1sg called
b. *O João tem chamado‐me.
the João has called‐acc.1sg
c. *O João me tem chamado.
the João acc.1sg has called
“He has called me.”
(19) a. O professor foi‐lhe dando alguns conselhos. (EP)
the teacher was‐dat.3sg giving some advices
b. ?O professor foi dando‐lhe alguns conselhos.
the teacher was giving‐dat.3sg some advices
c. *O professor lhe foi dando alguns conselhos.
the teacher dat.3sg was giving some advices
“The teacher was giving him/her some advice.”
But if the auxiliary is in the gerund and the main verb is in the participle, then the clitic must
attach to the auxiliary:
(20) Tendo‐lhe perguntado se estava em casa, ela respondeu que sim. (EP)
having‐dat.3sg asked if was at home she answered that yes
“Having asked her if she was at home, she replied ‘Yes’.”
With complex predicates, the clitic pronoun occurs after the non‐finite thematic verb or
“climbs” to the finite auxiliary and attaches after it. In either position, the clitic is postverbal
and enclitic.
(21) a. A minha mãe quer batizar=me. (EP)
the my mother wants baptize=acc.1sg
b. A minha mãe quer=me batizar.
the my mother wants=acc.1sg baptize
“My mother wants to baptize me.”
An adverb can separate the clitic from the thematic verb, showing that it is effectively enclitic
to the auxiliary.
(22) a. Querem=me sempre chamar. (EP)
want.3pl=acc.1sg always call
“He wants always to call me.”
b. Tem=me sempre chamado.
have.3pl=acc.1sg always called
“He has always called me.”
Clitics may also occur inside the verb, before the future and conditional ending:
(23) a. Quando eu tiver um filho, dar‐lhe‐ei muito amor. (EP)
when I have‐sbjv.fut a child I‐dat.3sg‐fut.3sg much love
“When I have a child, I will give him/her much love.”
b. Se eu tivesse dinheiro, da‐lo‐ía aos pobres.
if I had money give‐acc.3sg‐cond.1sg to‐the poor
“If I had money, I would give it to the poor.”
This phenomenon is known as mesoclisis and has sometimes been taken as an argument to
analyze these clitics as inflectional markers (Spencer and Luís 2005).
Clitic Pronouns: Phonology, Morphology, and Syntax  217
3.2.2.  Preverbal placement
Preverbal positioning in EP is only possible under certain morphosyntactic conditions
(Duarte, Matos, and Faria 1995, Luís and Otoguro 2011): after a quantifier (24a), a monosyllabic
adverb (24b) or a negation marker (24c). Note that in these cases the postverbal occurrence
of the clitic pronoun is excluded:4
(24) a.  Todos me chamaram. (EP)
all acc.1sg called
“Everyone called me.”
b.  Já me chamou.
already acc.1sg called
“(S/he) already called me.”
c.  Ela não me chamou.
she not acc.1sg called
“She didn’t call me.”
(EP)
Preverbal ordering is also triggered by embedded clauses and by main clauses introduced by
interrogative items:
(25) a.  Acho que me chamou.
think.1sg that acc.1sg called
“I think he called me.”
(EP)
b.  Porque me chamou?
why acc.1sg called
“Why did you call me?”
In complex tenses containing a participle verb form, clitic pronouns must occur before the
finite auxiliary (26a).
(26) a.  Acho que me tinha chamado.
think.1sg that acc.1sg had.3sg called
(EP)
b. *Acho que tinha chamado‐me.
think.1sg that had called‐acc.1sg
c. *Acho que tinha me chamado.
think.1sg that had acc.1sg called
“I think that (s)he had called me.”
With complex predicates, the clitic pronoun may either attach postverbally to the lexical verb
like an enclitic (27a) and (28a), or it may “climb” to the finite auxiliary verb and occur in
­
preverbal position (27b) and (28b). However, it cannot appear between the auxiliary and the
non‐finite thematic verb (27c) and (27c).
(27) a.  Todos querem chamar‐me.
all want call‐acc.sg
(EP)
b.  Todos me querem chamar.
all acc.sg want call
c.  *Todos querem me chamar.
all want acc.sg call
“They all want to call me.”
(28) a.  Porque querem chamar‐me?
why want call‐acc.sg
(EP)
b.  Porque me querem chamar?
why acc.sg want call
c. *Porque querem me chamar?
why want acc.sg call
“Why do they want to call me?”
218  Ana R. Luís and Georg A. Kaiser
Clitic pronouns in preverbal —but not in postverbal —position may appear separated from
the finite verb by an intervening (i.e., interpolated) element, in particular by the negation
marker não, but also by monosyllabic adverbial particles and non‐clitic pronouns:5
(29) a. Se me não engano, ela faz anos a 21 de janeiro. (EP)
if acc.1sg not mistake, she does years at 21 of January
“If I’m not mistaken, her birthday is on January 21.”
b. O electricista bem me cá veio arranjar a TV, mas …
the electrician good acc.1sg here came repair the TV, but …
“The electrician did come and repair the TV, but …”
c. Paciência já a tu tens!
patience already acc.3sg.fem you.sg have
“Patience, you already have!”
Preverbal clitics also have the ability to take wide scope over coordinated phrases (Crysmann
2002, Luís and Otoguro 2011) and be shared by conjoined verbs or verb phrases (30). Enclitics,
on the contrary, must always be repeated on each conjunct (31):
(30) a. Apenas a minha mãe me [ajudou e incentivou]. (EP)
only the my mother acc.1sg helped and encouraged
“Only my mother helped me and encouraged me.”
b. Acho que lhes [leram uma história e deram um livro].
think that dat.3pl read.pst a story and gave a book
“I think that they read them a story and gave them a book.”
(31) a. Comprei‐os ontem e usei‐os hoje. (EP)
bought‐acc.3pl.masc yesterday and used‐acc.3pl.masc today
b. *Comprei ontem e usei‐os hoje.
bought yesterday and used‐acc.3pl.masc today
“I bought them yesterday and used them today.”
3.3.  Phonological properties
In the research literature, one common question about clitic pronouns is the nature of their
prosodization to the host, that is, whether they attach lexically or postlexically. In this sec-
tion, we survey phonological rules which effectively suggest different prosodization pat-
terns for preverbal and postverbal clitics in EP. In particular, it will be shown that proclitics
attach postlexically whereas enclitics attach lexically. In section 3.4, morphological evidence
will be provided to further support the divide between enclitics and proclitics.
3.3.1.  Glide insertion
A crucial piece of phonological evidence indicating that enclitics and proclitics attach at
­
different levels of grammar stems from their behavior with respect to the rule of glide inser-
tion which takes place between [ə] and a following vowel (Vigário 2003). As shown below,
this rule of hiatus resolution is compulsory with postverbal clitics and prefixes, as in (32), but
optional with preverbal clitics and prepositions, as in (33).
Clitic Pronouns: Phonology, Morphology, and Syntax  219
(32) a. bebe‐o *[ᴓ]/[j] (EP)
drinks‐acc.3sg.masc
“drinks it”
b. re‐organizar *[ ᴓ]/[j]
“reorganize”
(33) a. te ofereci [ᴓ]/[j] (EP)
acc.2sg offered
“offered to you”
b. de assunto [ᴓ]/[j]
“of matter”
Optionality of glide insertion appears, indeed, to be a property of phrasal phonology, as
shown by two adjacent lexical items, which can only optionally trigger glide insertion:
(34) bebe agora [ᴓ]/[j] (EP)
“drinks now”
Such evidence strongly suggests that preverbal clitics undergo phrasal (or postlexical) pho-
nology like function words (Bermúdez‐Otero and Luís 2009). As to enclitics, the fact that the
non‐optionality of glide insertion in (32) is shared by both prefixed words and the verb‐
enclitic strongly suggests that enclitics are prosodified within the lexical domain.
Throughout Section 3, the idea that proclitics and enclitics attach at different levels of
grammar finds support in syntactic, phonological and morphological evidence. Section 3.4.2,
in particular, will focus on the morphological properties of the verb-enclitic combination and
show that the phrasal behavior of proclitics is in marked contrast with the lexical behavior of
enclitics.
In what follows, we will refine the claim that enclitics attach lexically to the verb by discuss-
ing the prosodic structure of the verb-enclitic combination. The main goal will be to provide
phonological evidence which shows that enclitic suffixes are prosodically attached as outer
layers of inflections. Based on two rules of lexical phonology, namely nasal diphthongization
and mid‐vowel centralization, it will be argued that enclitic suffixes are adjoined to the
prosodic word.
3.3.2.  Nasal diphthongization
Nasal diphthongization is typically a word‐final rule in standard EP (35a) (Mateus and
d’Andrade 2000: 47). It is never attested word‐internally in standard EP, except at the
boundary between the verb and the enclitic, as in (35b).
(35) a. dizem [dizẽȷ̃] (EP)
say.3pl
“they say”
b. dizem‐lhe [dizẽȷ̃ʎǝ] (EP)
say.2pl‐dat.3sg
“they say to him/her”
Rather than ruling out the lexical status of enclitics, on the grounds that they violate the
word‐final status of nasal diphthongization, as argued in Vigário (2003), Luís (2004) instead
accounts for (35b) by assuming that the enclitic suffix is prosodically outside the domain
220  Ana R. Luís and Georg A. Kaiser
within which the rule of nasalization applies. Under this view, the occurrence of the enclitic
suffix after a nasal diphthong follows out naturally.6
3.3.3.  Mid‐vowel centralization
Another lexical rule that shows that enclitic suffixes are prosodified outside the inner
prosodic is mid‐vowel centralization. This rule applies when mid vowels are followed
by palatals, as in (36a-b), but is blocked by the verb-enclitic sequence in (36c) (Vigário
2003).
(36)  a. telha [tɐ.ʎɐ]/*[te.ʎɐ]) (EP)
“tile”
b. veículo [vɐ.i.ku.lu]/*[ve.i.ku.lu] (EP)
“vehicle”
c. dê‐lhe [de. ʎǝ]/*[dɐ. ʎǝ] (EP)
give.imp‐dat.3sg
“give to him/her”
As in 3.3.2, the data in (36) can be accounted for by assuming that the lexical domain of
mid‐vowel centralization is the inner prosodic word. Under this assumption, the non‐
application of the rule in (36c) results from the prosodic boundary that exists between
verb and enclitic.
Overall, then, the evidence provided by the rules of nasal diphthongization and mid‐vowel
centralization suggests the prosodic structure in (37), in which the enclitic suffix is adjoined
to a prosodic word (Bermúdez‐Otero and Luís 2009, Luís 2009).
(37) Pwd
verb enclitic
Summing up, this section has shown that there is phonological evidence suggesting that
enclitics, but not proclitics, undergo rules of lexical phonology. It has further been argued
that enclitic suffixes behave phonologically like outer layers of suffixes and that they are best
analyzed as prosodically adjoined to the inner prosodic word.
In the following section we will examine in more detail the grammatical status of clitic
pronouns in EP, and provide morphological evidence supporting the distinction between
postverbal clitics and preverbal clitics.
3.4.  Morphological properties
In this section we present data to show that postverbal clitics interact morphologically with
the verb in ways strongly suggesting that they have developed into inflectional suffixes,
while preverbal clitics exhibit phrasal properties such as interpolation and coordination
(Luís 2004, 2009, 2014).
3.4.1.  Selectivity and adjacency
Postverbal clitic pronouns only attach to verbs and must always be in strict adjacency to
them:
Clitic Pronouns: Phonology, Morphology, and Syntax  221
(38) a. Levas‐nos agora? (EP)
take.2sg‐acc.2pl now
b. *Levas agora nos?
take.2sg now acc.2pl
“Do you take us now?”
Postverbal clitics may also surface in verb‐internal position. In future or conditional verb
forms, they can appear inside the verb before tense and agreement suffixes:
(39) a. dar‐lhes‐ão (*darão‐lhes) (EP)
give‐dat.3pl‐fut
“they will give them”
b. visitar‐nos‐iam (*visitariam‐nos)
visit‐acc.2pl‐cond
“they would visit us”
3.4.2.  Morphophonological alternations
Morphosyntactically conditioned allomorphy is restricted to the verb-clitic sequence.
Stem‐allomorphy takes place between 1pl verb forms and the enclitics nos “us” and vos
“you.pl”:
(40) a. Vêmo‐nos amanhã. (*vêmos‐nos) (EP)
see.2pl‐acc.1pl tomorrow
“We (will) see us tomorrow.”
b. Queremo‐vos em casa cedo. (*queremos‐vos)
want.2pl‐acc.2pl in house early
“We want you home early.”
If nos and vos follow any other consonant‐final verb, the allomorphy is not triggered:
(41) Vendes‐nos a casa? (*vende‐nos) (EP)
sell.2sg‐acc.2pl the house
“Would you sell the house?”
Enclitics also undergo allomorphic variation: when o/os or a/as is preceded by 3rd plural
verb forms, an n‐allomorph surfaces:
(42) a. As enfermeiras levam‐no. (*lavam‐o) (EP)
the nurses take‐acc.3sg.masc
“The nurses take him.”
b. As mulheres tinham‐nas visto. (*tinham‐as)
the women had‐acc.3pl.fem seen
“The women had seen them.”
While it may seem that the n‐allomorph is triggered by the verb‐final nasal diphthong, closer
inspection shows that before any other nasal‐final verb forms, such as 3rd singular present
indicative forms, allomorphy is blocked.
(43) O professor tem‐os visitado. (*tem‐nos) (EP)
the teacher has‐acc.3pl.masc visited
“The teacher has been visiting them.”
222  Ana R. Luís and Georg A. Kaiser
Allomorphy is reciprocal when both the stem and the clitic undergo variation. This ­
happens
when 3sg/pl accusative clitics precede a consonant‐final verb (ending in -s, -z or -r), which
triggers an l‐initial allomorph and verb‐final consonant deletion:
(44) Procuramo‐lo todo o dia. (*procuramos‐o) (EP)
look‐for.1pl acc.3sg.masc all the day
“We looked for him all day long.”
This phenomenon can also be found verb‐internally in mesoclitic verb forms, when a 3sg/pl
accusative clitic is placed between the r‐final verb stem and the future and conditional
agreement markers:
(45) cantá‐lo‐ei (*cantar‐o‐ei) (EP)
sing‐acc.3sg.masc‐fut.1sg
“I will sing it”
In sum, postverbal clitics trigger stem‐allomorphy and undergo stem‐induced allomorphy.
The observed allomorphic alternations are determined by highly restricted contexts, such as
the morphosyntactic properties of the verb or the morphosyntactic properties of both the
verb and the enclitic.
3.4.3.  Cluster‐internal allomorphy
We have so far shown that preverbal and postverbal clitics differ with respect to their mor-
phological interaction with the verb. In this section, however, we have provided evidence to
show that despite such differences, morphophonological alternations can be found within
the clitic cluster, regardless of whether it appears before or after the verb.
As already alluded to in Sections 2.2.1 and 2.2.2, one can have at most two elements which
very rarely preserve their form as single clitics. The morphophonological changes observed
within the cluster are of two kinds: (1) fusion, with or without syncretism; and (2) reciprocal
allomorphy (affecting both clitics).
Fusion takes place when one single formative expresses morphosyntactic features that are
usually expressed separately by distinct formatives. In the case of EP clitics, dative and accu-
sative clitics features are expressed by one monosyllabic portmanteau form. Such forms
always involve a dative clitic with a 3sg/pl accusative pronouns (see Table 12.3).
Clusters that realize amalgamated dative and accusative clitics may also exhibit syncre-
tism, given that the fused clusters containing 3sg/pl dative forms neutralize the number
distinction of the dative forms (see Table 12.4).
Finally, clitic sequences also exhibit morphological alternations as observed between the verb
and the enclitic. Whenever the dative clitics nos and vos combine with 3sg/pl accusative pro-
nouns, both the dative and the accusative clitic forms undergo allomorphy. While the dative pro-
noun loses its final consonant, the vowel initial accusative clitic surfaces as an l‐initial allomorph.
To sum up, our morphological survey reveals a number of clear‐cut inflectional properties
within the clitic sequence and between the enclitic and the verb (Spencer and Luís 2005,
2012). Evidence also shows that clitics in preverbal position exhibit phrasal behavior
(Crysmann 2002, Luís and Otoguro 2011, Luís 2014).
4.  Clitic pronouns in Brazilian Portuguese
4.1. Introduction
In this section we turn to the clitic system of BP. Our survey starts with object clitics and ­
provides
an overview of the placement patterns (4.2).7
We then examine their ­
morphology (4.3) and
­
phonology (4.4). Evidence will highlight differences between preverbal and postverbal clitics that
Clitic Pronouns: Phonology, Morphology, and Syntax  223
resemble some of the differences previously observed in EP. We then look briefly at an important
development in the grammar of clitic pronouns, namely the emergence of subject clitics (4.5).
4.2.  The positioning of object clitic pronouns
4.2.1.  Preverbal placement: the default position
BP clitic pronouns tend to occur mostly in preverbal position. This is the case in absolute V1
contexts, where the preverbal occurrence of clitic pronouns is considered to be one of the
main innovations of BP syntax (Galves, Moraes, and Ribeiro 2005):
(46)  a. Me chamo Maria. (BP)
acc.1sg call Maria
b. *Chamo‐me Maria.
call‐acc.1sg Maria
“My name’s Maria.”
This is also the case with root affirmative clauses, which in EP would dictate postverbal
placement. Compare (47) with the corresponding sentence in EP (cf. (17).
(47) A médica me chamou. (BP)
the doctor acc.1sg called
“The (woman) doctor called me.”
Given that clitic placement in BP is entirely independent of the presence of proclitic triggers,
sentences such as (48) look exactly like their EP counterparts:
(48) O médico não/já/nunca me chamou. (BP/EP)
the doctor not/already/never acc.1sg called
“The doctor didn’t call/already called/never called me.”
In BP, preverbal placement is also compulsory with the imperative. In this context, BP differs
not only from EP but also from most other Romance languages where clitics attach postver-
bally with affirmative imperatives (Rooryck 2000):
(49) a. Me chama! (BP)
acc.1sg call.imp
b. *Chama‐me!
call.imp acc.1sg
“Call me!”
In “Aux V” structures (i.e., analytic and periphrastic structures with an inflected “Aux” and
a non‐finite “V”), the pronoun attaches as a proclitic to the thematic verb (Galves and
Abaurre 1996, Galves, Moraes, and Ribeiro 2005):
(50) a. A senhora poderia me dizer o seu nome? (BP)
the lady could acc.1sg tell the your name
“Could you tell me your name?”
b. Você tinha me dito que ficava.
you.sg had acc.1sg told that stayed.2sg
“You told me that you would stay.”
c. Eu estou te levando …
I am acc.1sg taking
“I am taking you …”
224  Ana R. Luís and Georg A. Kaiser
The claim that the clitics in (50) attach to the thematic verb, but not to the auxiliary, as happens
in EP, is supported by the fact that the insertion of an adverb between pronoun and the main
verb form is excluded in BP (Comrie 1982, Nunes 2011) (compare (51) with the corresponding
EP structure in (22)).
(51) a. Ele tem me (*sempre) chamado. (BP)
he has acc.1sg (*always) called
“He has (always) called me.”
b. Ele quer me (*sempre) chamar.
he wants acc.1sg (*always) call
“He wants (always) to call me.”
The behavior of clitics in “Aux V” structures with a participle verb is therefore in marked
contrast with the behavior of EP clitics, where clitic climbing would be mandatory (26).
(52) Acho que a senhora já tinha me chamado. (BP)
think.1sg that the lady already had acc.1sg called
“I think that you had already called me.”
In fact, attachment to participles (as in (52)) or to gerunds is a BP‐specific innovation which
is not allowed in Modern EP.
4.2.2.  BP object clitics in postverbal position
Although we can state that, as a general rule, BP object clitics occur in preverbal position and
attach to the following verb, there are also contexts where they may appear in postverbal
position. An interesting observation by Galves and Abaurre (1996) is that there seem to be
two types of enclisis: one involving the clitic se in root matrix clauses (53) and another one
the 3rd person clitic o/a in “Aux Vinf
” structures (54).
(53) a. chegou‐se à conclusão … (BP)
came‐refl.3sg to‐the conclusion
“One came to the conclusion …”
b. parte‐se um ovo …
crack‐refl.3sg an egg
“You crack an egg …”
In (53), se is a “se indeterminado” (“indeterminate se”), which further shows that enclitic
placement is effectively quite restricted. In the “Aux Vinf
” structure, enclisis with o/a appears
to be largely determined by the morphological form of the thematic verb, which is
non‐finite:
(54) a. Não seria conveniente mudá‐lo. (BP)
not would‐be convenient change‐acc.3sg.masc
“It would not be convenient to change it.”
b. Você vai levá‐lo a encontrar uma solução …
you will take‐acc.3sg.masc to find a solution
“You will take him with you to find a solution …”
In “Aux V” structures, other clitics may be enclitic to the thematic verb (Comrie 1982). Yet it
has been pointed out that the occurrence of postverbal clitics in BP reflects the written norm
learned at school or through special training.
Clitic Pronouns: Phonology, Morphology, and Syntax  225
Despite the patterns (53) and (54), it is worth noting that there is some degree of option-
ality between preverbal and postverbal placement in BP (Galves and Abaurre 1996, Vieira
2003, Galves, Moraes, and Ribeiro 2005). For example, with prepositional clauses which take
a non‐finite verb, BP allows both positions such as EP:
(55) a. Estou aqui para te dizer que … (BP/EP)
be.prs.1sg here for dat.2.sg say that …
b. Estou aqui para dizer‐te que… (BP/EP)
be.prs.1sg here for dat.2.sg say that …
“I am here to tell you that …”
4.2.3.  Other developments
Another syntactic peculiarity of BP clitic pronouns concerns their use. With 2nd and 3rd
person pronouns there is a tendency in colloquial BP to use non‐clitic forms instead of clitic
ones (Galves, Moraes, and Ribeiro 2005):
(56) a. Não te chamei. (BP/EP)
not acc.2sg called
b. Não chamei você. (BP)
not called‐1sg you
“I didn’t call you.”
(57) a. O João não lhe perguntou. (BP/EP)
the João not dat.3sg called
b. O João não perguntou a ela. (BP)
the João not called prep her
“João didn’t call her.”
The first person plural form nós “us” is often replaced in colloquial BP by a gente (literally
“the people”):
(58) a. A Maria viu‐nos na praia. (EP)
the Maria saw‐us on the beach
b. A Maria viu a gente na praia. (BP)
the Maria saw the people on the beach
“Maria saw us yesterday on the beach.”
In addition to a tendency in BP to avoid clitic pronouns (Cyrino, Duarte, and Kato 2000), 3rd
clitic pronouns can also be completely omitted. Although in EP clitic pronouns also can be
omitted (Raposo 1986), null clitics are more frequent and less constrained in BP than in EP
(Farrel 1990, Galves, Moraes, and Ribeiro 2005):
(59) a. Eu comprei quando eu fui para o Rio. (BP)
I bought when I went to the Rio
“I bought it when I went to Rio.”
b. A Júlia sempre chora quando ponho no berço.
the Julia always cries when put.prs.1sg in‐the cradle
“Julia always cries when I put her in the cradle.”
226  Ana R. Luís and Georg A. Kaiser
Finally, lhe can have an accusative meaning, carrying 2nd person features (60) or 3rd person
features (61) (Galves, Moraes, and Ribeiro 2005):
(60) a. Lá encontrarás um tesouro que te fará rico. (EP)
there you find‐fut a treasure which acc.3sg.masc make.fut rich
b. Lá você encontrará um tesouro que lhe fará rico. (BP)
there you find‐fut a treasure which dat.3 sg.masc make.fut rich
“You will find there a treasure which will make you rich.”
(61) a. … mas aquilo deixou‐o sobressaltado. (EP)
… but it left‐acc.3sg startled
b. … mas aquilo lhe deixou sobressaltado. (BP)
… but it dat.3sg left startled
“… but it still left him startled.”
4.3.  Phonological properties
We now draw on previous research on the phonology of BP clitic pronouns to argue that the pho-
nological rules applying between proclitics (such as me, te, se and lhe) and the verb have postlexi-
cal status. With the exception of accusative o/a in postverbal position (see 4.3.2), the phonological
rules that apply between proclitics (such as me, te, se, and lhe) and the verb also apply across word
boundaries. We will, however, not be committing ourselves to specific prosodization patterns.
4.3.1.  Mid‐vowel neutralization
One phonological rule which applies to stressless mid vowels in word‐final position is
known as mid‐vowel neutralization (Câmara Jr. 1970, Wetzels 1992, Bisol 2000, 2003).
Neutralization also applies to clitic pronouns such as -me [me], ‐te [te], -se [se] and -lhe [ʎe],
in which the final mid vowel is raised to [i]:
(62) a. me [me] leve > mi [mi] levi (BP)
acc.1sg take.imp
“take me”
b. se [se] senti > si [si] senti
refl.3sg feels
“(s)he feels”
Crucial here is the fact that neutralization of stressless mid vowels can also be observed in
function words (63) and lexical words (64) that have a mid vowel in word‐final position:
(63) a. de ferro > di [di] ferro (BP)
“of iron”
b. se você quiser > si [si] você quiser
“if you want”
(64) a. leve > lev[i] (BP)
“light”
b. sente > sent[i]
“((s)he) feels”
An interesting property of this rule is that it does not apply word‐internally and therefore
can be used to disambiguate the minimal pairs in (65):
(65) sessenta (*sissenta) (BP)
“sixty”
Clitic Pronouns: Phonology, Morphology, and Syntax  227
Likewise, stressless prefixes or pretonic syllables within a lexical word do not undergo
neutralization:
(66) a. preconceber (*priconceber) (BP)
“to plan ahead”
b. reanimar (*rianimar)
“to reanimate”
BP varieties in which neutralization takes place seem to block the rule in fixed multiword
expressions, such as de noite “at night” and cor‐de‐rosa “pink,” as a result of lexicalization. In
these expressions, the function word de preserves its mid vowel (Bisol 2005).
4.3.2.  Vowel degemination
Vowel degemination in BP takes place when two identical stressless vowels belonging to
adjacent syllables are fused into one vowel forming one syllable. Examples of degemination
involving the mid vowel [e] can take place between a vowel and a verb:
(67) a. me esquece > m[e]squece (BP)
refl.1sg forgets
“(s)he forgets me”
b. te ensina > t[ẽ]nsina
acc.2sg teaches
“(s)he teaches you”
But degemination can also be found across word boundaries, as in (68), word‐internally, bet-
ween morphological boundaries or not, as in (69):
(68) a. vida amarga > vid[a]marga (BP)
“bitter life”
b. menino honesto > menin[o]nesto
“honest boy”
(69) a. reestabelecer > restabelecer (BP)
“to reestablish”
b. coordenar > cordenar
“to coordinate”
Based on evidence which shows that degemination occurs both within and across word
boundaries, Bisol (2000, 2003) takes the view that this rule is postlexical.
4.3.3. Diphthongization
Diphthongization takes place between two adjacent vowels, one of which must be (underly-
ingly) high or mid and stressless. It is an optional rule that can take place between proclitics
and the verb (70), as well as across word boundaries, either between a function word and a
lexical word (71) or between two lexical words (72).
(70) a. me amou > m[ja]mou (BP)
acc.1sg loved
“(s)he loved me”
b. me acorda > m[ja]corda
acc.1sg wake‐up
“(s)he wakes me up”
228  Ana R. Luís and Georg A. Kaiser
(71) do amor > d[wa]mor (BP)
“of the love”
(72) a. casaco azul > casac[wa]zul (BP)
“blue coat”
b. verdade oculta > verdad[jo]culta
“hidden truth”
Overall, then, phonological evidence seems to indicate that there are no clitic‐specific rules
that apply exclusively at the boundary between the verb and the proclitics me, te, se, and lhe.
Proclitics undergo a set of phonological rules that are neither category specific nor mandatory
and which also apply across word boundaries.
4.4.  Morphological properties
Adopting the Zwicky and Pullum (1983) criteria, this section shows that BP clitics exhibit a
number of properties that are generally attributed to affixes, such as selectivity and adjacency
to the verb (4.4.1), allomorphy (4.4.2), and paradigmatic gaps (4.4.3). While these properties
are also present in EP, they occur in BP in ways that are quite distinct from EP. In Section 4.4.4,
finally, our evidence indicates that proclitics exhibit predominately phrasal properties.
4.4.1.  Selectivity and adjacency
Neither enclitics nor proclitics can be separated from the verb by interpolated forms, unlike
proclitics in EP. In this respect, BP is more similar to languages like Modern Spanish or
Modern Italian.
The adjacency requirement takes a more literal meaning in BP, given that the preferred
option in this language is attachment to the thematic verb rather than to the auxiliary verb.
In Aux V structures, this property produces a placement pattern according to which the clitic
is proclitic to the main verb and not enclitic to the preceding auxiliary.
4.4.2.  Morphonological alternations
Postverbal positioning may occur in restricted contexts, i.e., with 3rd accusative o/a after
non‐finite verb forms (Galves and Abaurre 1996, Vieira 2003), in which case o/a surfaces
with an l‐initial allomorph:
(73) a. Não seria conveniente mudá-lo. (not mudar-o) (BP)
not would‐be convenient change‐acc.3sg.masc
“It would not be convenient to change it.”
b. Você vai levá-lo a encontrar uma solução .... (not levar-o)
you will take‐acc.3sg.masc to find a solution
“You will take him with you to find a solution …”
The fact that BP clitics also exhibit allmophic variation constitutes evidence in favor of the
inflectional status of postverbal o(s)/a(s). In EP, the same morphophonology is found in a
wider range of verb–clitic sequences (cf. 3.4.2) and also within clitic clusters (cf. 3.4.3).
4.4.3.  Paradigm gaps and syncretism
The clitic pronouns also show idiosyncratic gaps in their paradigm. In general, the allowed
clitic inventory includes the clitics me 1sg, te 2sg, lhe 3sg, and se refl, (Nunes 1995, Cyrino,
Duarte, and Kato 2000). Several forms are therefore excluded or quite rarely used.
Clitic Pronouns: Phonology, Morphology, and Syntax  229
In some cases, what appears to determine the exclusion of certain clitic forms is the finiteness
of the verb (Galves and Abaurre 1996, Vieira 2003,). For example, 3rd accusative clitics rarely
occur with finite verbs, being instead replaced by full pronouns or being omitted (see
examples in Section 4.2.3).
Another example of a paradigmatic gap is the absence of the 2nd plural clitic form vos
“2pl” (Galves, Moraes, and Ribeiro 2005) and also the plural form lhes “dat.3pl” which is
more infrequent than its singular counterpart lhe “dat.3sg” It is difficult to see how such
exclusions might be accounted for on general syntactic grounds, not the least because there
appears to be no syntactic principle that would license one set of pronominal features over
another. The exclusion of some forms may perhaps best be viewed as the result of morpho-
logical idiosyncrasies in BP. This is what defines defectiveness, namely the fact that not all
morphosyntactic feature combinations correspond to an inflectional cell (Baerman and
Corbett 2010).
Another type of form‐meaning idiosyncrasy which is typical of inflectional affixes is
known as syncretism (i.e., homophony between inflectional forms). In BP, syncretism can be
observed in 1st and 2nd singular clitic forms me and te, which neutralize case, but also in a
more recent development of syncretism with the clitic form lhe, which can be used as the 2sg
and 3sg direct object of a transitive verb, with the meaning of te and a/o, as illustrated in (60)
and (61).
4.4.4.  Wide scope over coordination
We have seen above that proclitics in BP must be strictly adjacent to the verb and therefore
seem to qualify as affixes. Surprisingly, however, they also take wide scope over conjoined
verbs (Luís 2012) behaving like phrasal units:
(74) a. O Gabriel simplesmente se lavou e vestiu. (BP)
the Gabriel simply ref.3sg washed and dressed
“Gabriel simply washed himself and got dressed.”
b. Depois de fugir, a polícia acabou por me encontrar e prender.
after fleeing the police stopped prep acc.1sg find at home and arrest
“After escaping, the police finally caught me and arrested me.”
Thus, the BP clitic system seems to share with EP the mixed grammatical status of its
proclitics.8
Summing up, a number of morphological properties have been identified, such as adja-
cency, selectivity, enclitic allomorphy and gaps. Postverbal 3rd accusative clitics trigger and
undergo allomorphy indicating lexical attachment. Preverbal clitics, despite adjacency, can
take wide scope. Overall, then, preverbal and postverbal clitics seem to exhibit different
degrees of morphologization.
4.5.  The emergence of subject clitic pronouns
BP speakers often make use of reduced forms of subject pronouns in colloquial speech.
Table 12.5 provides a list of the reduced forms which has been remarked in the literature
(Ramos 1997, Kato 1999).
The existence of such reduced forms has been interpreted as evidence that a new
series of subject pronouns with clitic forms is beginning to emerge. Indeed, some of the
tests for clitic‐hood, already discussed in Section  2.3, provide evidence for this
230  Ana R. Luís and Georg A. Kaiser
interpretation (Vitral 1996, Reich 2001, Petersen 2008, Othero 2013). For instance, the
form cê is not allowed to occur in isolated position, nor can it receive contrastive stress,
contrary to the full form você:
(75) a. Quem chamou o João? – Você?/*Cê (BP)
who called det João you
“Who called João? You.”
b. Quem chamou o João foi você/*cê! (BP)
who called det João was you
“YOU called João!”
However, with respect to other tests for clitic‐hood, cê behaves like the full pronoun você: it
may be separated from the verb (76) or coordinated with another pronoun (77) (Othero 2013,
Kaiser and Alencar 2014):
(76) a. Você mesmo vai comprar o livro? (BP)
b. Cê mesmo vai comprar o livro?
you yourself will buy the book
“Will you buy yourself the book?”
(77) a. Você e ela podem sair mais cedo, se preferirem. (BP)
b. Cê e ela podem sair mais cedo, se preferirem.
you and she can leave more early if want.inf.3pl
“You and she can leave earlier, if you want.”
In sum, we can state that reduced forms of subject pronouns in BP exhibit some, but not all
typical properties of clitic elements. They (still) seem to occupy an intermediate position bet-
ween independent and clitic elements. Further investigation of these elements is needed in
order to determine their exact nature with respect to their status as clitics. In any case, we are
dealing here with the beginning of a similar development that has been observed in the his-
tory of French and many northern Italian dialects, where a series of subject clitics pronouns
has emerged (Petersen 2008).
5.  Final remarks
In this chapter we have discussed the typical properties of clitic pronouns in European and
Brazilian Portuguese. With respect to their use, the most salient differences between EP and
BP reside in the fact that in EP their ordering is highly restricted by syntactic and semantic
Table 12.5  Reduced subject pronoun forms in BP.
Standard Form Reduced Form
2sg você cê
3sg.masc ele el
ela é
2pl vocês cês
3pl.masc eles es
Clitic Pronouns: Phonology, Morphology, and Syntax  231
rules, while BP clitics almost always occur in preverbal position. In addition, BP only allows
one argument to surface as a clitic, regardless of whether the thematic verb takes more
arguments or not.
Then there are other differences, such as the morphophonological alternations. In BP,
morphophonological alternations take place only when 3rd accusative clitics attach
postverbally to a non‐finite verb. Such allmorphy is also dependent on register and other
sociolinguistic factors. In EP, clitic allomorphy is more extensive and can be found within the
clitic cluster and also between the verb‐enclitic unit. Given their specific morphophono-
logical characteristics, postverbal pronouns in EP have sometimes been analyzed as stem‐
level inflections. Preverbal clitic pronouns in EP, however, do not allow this classification,
since they do not necessarily attach to the verb.
Interestingly, there seems to be a general tendency in EP to replace preverbal clitic pro-
nouns by postverbal clitic pronouns even in those contexts where postverbal clitic pronouns
should be disallowed (Duarte, Matos, and Faria 1995). Examples of “misplaced” enclitics in
colloquial speech are illustrated in (78):
(78) a. Quer que eu ponha‐o cá dentro? (EP)
want.3sg that I put.sbjv‐acc.3sg.masc inside
“Do you want me to put it inside?”
b. Ainda não vi‐o dormir mais do que duas horas.
yet not saw‐acc.3sg.masc sleep more prep that two hours
“I haven’t seen him sleep more than two hours yet.”
In BP, one can observe a general tendency to replace preverbal clitic pronouns by strong pro-
nouns (in postverbal position) or even to omit them. In addition, there is a tendency to
develop a series of clitic subject pronouns.
Notes
1	 We are grateful to Gabriel Araújo, Bruce Mayo and Leo Wetzels for useful comments and sugges-
tions which helped improve this manuscript. Any faults that remain are our own.
2	Note that despite the orthographic similarities in Table 12.1, the IPA transcriptions reveal that there
are substantial phonological differences between clitic pronouns in EP and BP. Some of these clitics
also undergo phonological and morphological changes which affect their form (see Sections 3.3–3.4
and 4.3–4.4).
3	 Following standard conventions, we use “=” to indicate attachment.
4	 However see Section  6 on the expansion of enclisis to contexts where proclisis would be
expected.
5	 Interpolation is a residue of older stages of EP where preverbal clitics could be separated from the
verb by large(r) words or whole phrases (Martins 1995, Barbosa 1996, Hinzelin 2010).
6	 See, for example, homemzinho “little man” or homemzarrão “big man.” In Luís (2004, 2009) and
Bermúdez and Luís (2009), it is argued that diminutives and augmentatives should also be analyzed
as lexical suffixes that adjoin prosodically to the base.
7	 For reasons of space, we will only illustrate the more general tendencies of BP clitic placement. More
detailed descriptions, taking account of both register and sociolinguistic variables, can be found in
the references throughout this section.
8	 Selectivity, on one hand, and wide scope, on the other, suggest that proclitics are phrasal affixes:
while they constitute morphological units, they do not attach to stems (like stem‐level affixes) but to
phrasal hosts (see Luís 2012, 2014, Spencer and Luís 2012).
232  Ana R. Luís and Georg A. Kaiser
Baerman, M. and G. Corbett (2010). Introduction:
defectiveness: typology and diachrony. In M.
Baerman, G. Corbett, and D. Brown (eds.),
Defective Paradigms: Missing Forms and What
They Tell Us. Oxford: Oxford Uuniversity Press,
pp. 1–18.
Barbosa, P. (1996). Clitic placement in European
Portuguese and the position of subjects. In A.
Halpern and A. Zwicky (eds.), Approaching
Second. Second Position Clitics and Related
Phenomena. Stanford, CA: Centre for the Study
of Language and Information, pp. 1–40.
Bermúdez‐Otero, R. and A. R. Luís (2009). Cyclic
domains and prosodic spans in European
Portuguese encliticization. Handout at the Old
World Conference in Phonology (OCP6),
University of Edinburgh.
Bisol, L. (2000). O clítico e seu status prosódico.
Revista de Estudos de Linguagem, 9, pp. 5–30.
Bisol, L. (2003). Neutralização das átonas. Revista
de Documentação de Estudos em Lingüística
Teórica e Aplicada, 19, pp. 267–276.
Bisol, L. (2005). O clítico e o seu hospedeiro.
Letras de Hoje, 40, pp. 163–184.
Câmara Jr., M. (1970). Estrutura da Língua
Portuguesa. Petrópolis: Vozes.
Comrie, B. (1982). Remarks on clitic‐climbing in
Brazilian Portuguese. Lingua, 58, pp. 243–265.
Crysmann, B. (2002). Constraint‐based
coanalysis. Ph.D. dissertation, Universität des
Saarlandes & DFKI.
Cyrino, S., M. Duarte, and M. A. Kato (2000).
Visible subjects and invisible clitics in Brazilian
Portuguese. In M. Kato and E. Negrão (eds.),
Brazilian Portuguese and the Null Subject
Parameter. Frankfurt: Vervuert, pp. 55–74.
Duarte, I., G. Matos, and I. H. Faria (1995).
Specificity of European Portuguese clitics in
Romance. In I. H. Faria and M. J. Freitas (eds.),
Studies on the Acquisition of Portuguese. Lisbon:
APL/Edições Colibri, pp. 129–154.
Farrell, P. (1990). Null objects in Brazilian
Portuguese. Natural Language and Linguistic
Theory, 8, pp. 325–346.
Galves, C. and M. Abaurre (1996). Os clíticos no
português brasileiro: elementos para uma
abordagem sintático‐fonológica. In A. Castilho
et al. (eds.), Gramática do Português Falado. Vol.
IV. Campinas: UNICAMP, pp. 267–312.
Galves, C., M. Moraes, and I. Ribeiro (2005).
Syntax and morphology in the placement of
clitics in European and Brazilian Portuguese.
Journal of Portuguese Linguistics, 4, pp. 143–177.
Hinzelin, M.‐O. (2010). L’interpolation dans les
langues romanes: aspects diachroniques. In M.
Iliescu, H. M. Siller‐Runggaldier, and P. Danler
(eds.), Actes du XXVe
Congrès International de
Linguistique et de Philologie Romanes. Innsbruck
2007. Tome II. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter,
pp. 331–340.
Kaiser, G. and L. Alencar (forthcoming).
Zwischen Aussprechen und Auslassen. Zur
Verwendung der Subjektspronomina im
brasilianischen Portugiesisch. In B. Meisnitzer
and E. Pustka (eds.), Zwischen Sprechen und
Sprache. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Kato, M. (1999). Strong and weak pronominals
in the null subject parameter. Probus, 11,
pp. 1–37.
Kayne, R. (1975). French Syntax. The
Transformational Cycle. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Luís, A. R. (2004). Clitics as morphology. Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Essex.
Luís, A. R. (2009). Para uma (re)definição da
sufixação no Português Europeu: a adjunção
prosódica de enclíticos pronominais. Biblos –
Revista da Faculdade de Letras da Universidade de
Coimbra, 7, pp. 451–470.
Luís, A. R. (2012). Weak object pronouns in
Brazilian Portuguese: An LFG analysis. In
F. Perdigão, H. Caseli, A. Villavicencio, and
A. Teixeira (eds.), Computational Processing of
the Portuguese Language. Berlin: Springer‐
Verlag, pp. 139–145.
Luís, A. R. (2014). On clitic attachment in
Ibero‐Romance: Evidence from Portuguese
and Spanish. In P. Amaral and A. Carvalho
(eds.), Portuguese–Spanish Interfaces.
Amsterdam: Benjamins, pp. 203–236.
Luís, A. R. and R. Otoguro (2011). Inflectional
morphology and syntax in correspondence:
Evidence from European Portuguese. In A.
Galani, G. Hicks, and G. Tsoulas (eds.),
Morphology and Its Interfaces. Amsterdam:
Benjamins, pp. 187–225.
Martins, A. (1995). Clitic placement from Old to
Modern European Portuguese. In H. Andersen
(ed.), Historical Linguistics 1993. Amsterdam:
Benjamins, pp. 295–307.
Mateus, M. H. and E. d’Andrade (2000). The Phonology
of Portuguese. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
References
Clitic Pronouns: Phonology, Morphology, and Syntax  233
Nespor, M. and I. Vogel (2007). Prosodic
Phonology. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Nunes, J. (1995). Ainda o famigerado SE. Revista
de documentação de estudos em lingüística teórica e
aplicada, 11, pp. 201–240.
Nunes, J. (2011). On the diachronic reanalysis of
null subjects and null objects in Brazilian
Portuguese. Triggers and consequences. In
E. Rinke and T. Kupisch (eds.), The Development
of Grammar. Language Acquisition and Diachronic
Change. In Honour of Jürgen M. Meisel.
Amsterdam: Benjamins, pp. 331–354.
Othero, G. (2013). Revisitando o status do
pronome cê no português brasileiro. Revista de
Estudos da Linguagem, 21, pp. 135–156.
Petersen, C. (2008). A tripartição pronominal e o
estado das proformas Cê, Ocê e Você. Revista de
documentação de estudos em lingüística teórica e
aplicada, 24, pp. 283–308.
Ramos, J. (1997). O uso das formas você, ocê e cê no
dialeto mineiro. In D. da Hora (ed.), Diversidade
lingüística no Brasil. João Pessoa: Idéia, pp. 43–60.
Raposo, E. (1986). On the null object in European
Portuguese. In O. Jaeggli and C. Silva‐
Corvalán (eds.), Studies in Romance Linguistics.
Dordrecht: Foris, pp. 373–390.
Reich, U. (2001). Grammatikalisierungsprozesse
im modernen brasilianischen
Pronominalsystem. In B. Schäfer‐Prieß, H.
Klöden, and R. Kailuweit (eds.),
Grammatikalisierung in den iberoromanischen
Sprachen. Wilhelmsfeld: Egert, pp. 13–32.
Rooryck, J. (2000). Enclitic ordering in
imperatives and infinitives. In J. Rooryck (ed.),
Configurations of Sentential Complementation.
Perspectives from Romance Languages. London:
Routledge, pp. 115–143.
Spencer, A. and A. R. Luís (2005). Paradigm
function account of “mesoclisis” in European
Portuguese. In G. Booij and J. van Marle (eds.),
Yearbook of Morphology 2004. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, pp. 79–154.
Spencer, A. and A. R. Luís (2012). Clitics.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Vieira, S. (2003). Colocação pronominal nas
variedades europeia, brasileira e
moçambicana: para a definição da natureza do
clítico. In S. Brandão and M. Mota (eds.),
Análise contrastiva de variedades do Português.
Rio de Janeiro: In‐Folio, pp. 37–60.
Vigário, M. (2003). The Prosodic Word in
European Portuguese. Berlin: Mouton
de Gruyter.
Vitral, L. (1996). A forma CÊ e a noção de
gramaticalização. Revista de Estudos da
Linguagem 5, pp. 115–124.
Wanner, D. (2001). From Latin to the Romance
languages. In M. Haspelmath, E. König,
W. Oesterreicher, and W. Raible (eds.),
Language Typology and Universals. An
Internationales Handbook. Volume 2. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter, pp. 1691–1707.
Wetzels, L. (1992). Mid vowel neutralization in
Brazilian Portuguese. Cadernos de Estudos
Lingüísticos, 23, pp. 19–55.
Zwicky, A. M. and G. K. Pullum (1983).
Cliticization vs. inflection: English n’t.
Language, 59, pp. 502–513.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
1.1.  Empirical coverage
In this chapter, readers will find information concerning the licensing and interpretation of
null subjects in finite clauses in European and in Brazilian Portuguese (henceforth, EP and
BP respectively). Throughout the chapter, the empirical data to be accounted for come from
the standard varieties spoken by educated Portuguese and Brazilian native speakers.
Due to the nature of this contribution, a couple of choices had to be made concerning the
extension and the complexity of the empirical coverage. As a consequence, we decided to
exclude from our account null subjects in non‐finite clauses (infinitival—both uninflected
and inflected—gerundive and participial ones). In what concerns finite clauses, we only con-
sidered declarative and wh– interrogative root clauses, thus excluding coordinate structures,
as well as other clause types. Regarding embedded clauses, we just looked at complement,
relative and adjunct clauses, leaving aside degree constructions.
1.2.  The null subject parameter and the functional
architecture of the clause
Following Roberts and Holmberg (2010), a.o., we assume that the properties subsumed
under the so‐called Null Subject Parameter (Perlmutter 1971, Rizzi 1982) lie in a series of
options concerning the presence and the specification of uninterpretable features on probes—
in particular, on T, in the case of EP and BP. The features at stake are φ‐features, which are
“rich” enough to allow for the absence of lexical subjects in consistent null subject languages
likeEP;however,inpartialnullsubjectlanguageslikeBP,φ‐featuresonTaretooimpoverished
to do so in general, barely licensing null subjects under rather restricted conditions. As we
will argue below, the relevant difference concerns the Person feature on T.1
Two main approaches with respect to the effect of richness of the φ‐features on T have
been argued for in the last 40 years: (1) the one that goes back to Rizzi 1982 and Chomsky
The Null Subject Parameter
and the Structure of the
Sentence in European and
Brazilian Portuguese
Inês Duarte and Maria Cristina
Figueiredo Silva
13
The Null Subject Parameter and the Structure of the Sentence in EP and BP  235
1982, claiming that rich φ‐features on T license an empty weak pronoun, pro (Rizzi 1986;
Cardinaletti 1997, Holmberg 2005, Roberts 2010, a.o.); (2) the one with its origins in Borer
1986, arguing that rich φ‐features on T act like a pronoun, hence they may bear θ‐roles, check
nominative Case and EPP, dispensing with the need of pro in Spec,TP (Barbosa 1995,
Alexiadou and Anagnostopoulou 1998, Holmberg 2010, a.o.). Under the latter approach,
­
preverbal subjects in consistent null subject languages are (clitic) left‐dislocated.
However, empirical evidence against the claim that, in most EP unmarked declarative
sentences, preverbal subjects have the behavior of other left‐dislocated arguments has been
provided by some authors (Costa and Duarte 2003, Costa and Galves 2002, Costa 2004). The
relevant evidence concerns, namely, agreement facts, asymmetries related to minimality
effects, contrasts between apparent hyper‐raising contexts and regular SV clauses, recon-
struction, the behavior of negative QPs, multiple fronting, C‐less optative clauses. We will
only recall the first three pieces of evidence presented in the literature referred to above.
As the contrast between (1b) and (2b) shows, number agreement with postverbal 3rd
person subjects of unaccusative verbs is optional, whereas it is mandatory with preverbal
subjects. This contrast is unexpected under the left‐dislocated analysis of preverbal subjects.
(1)  a.  Chegaram três pessoas.
/arrived‐3 pl three people/
b. Chegou três pessoas. (?
EP; OK
BP)
/arrived‐3 sg three people/
“There arrived three people.”
(2) a. Três pessoas chegaram.
/three people arrived‐3 pl/
“Three people arrived.”
b. *
Três pessoas chegou. (*
EP, *
BP)
/three people arrived‐3 sg/
Asymmetries between preverbal subjects and other left‐dislocated arguments with respect
to minimality have been noticed by several authors (Duarte 1987, 1996, a.o.). As the para-
digm in (3) shows, a preverbal subject may intervene between a wh‐phrase and the verb;
however, if the intervener is a (clitic) left‐dislocated element, ungrammaticality arises. This
contrast is straightforwardly accounted for if one assumes that only the latter occupies an
A‐bar position, yielding minimality effects, as expected.
(3) a. Perguntei que livro o Pedro leu.
/(I) asked which book the Pedro read/
“I asked which book Pedro read.”
b. *
Perguntei que livro, à Maria, lhe deram.
/(I) asked which book, to Maria, (they) her‐dat gave/ 
Apparent cases of hyper‐raising, as in (4), are constructions that involve clitic left‐dislocation
of the embedded subject, according to Barbosa (2000).
(4) a. Os homens parece que viram um monstro.
/the men seems that saw‐3 pl a monster/
“The men, they seem to have seen a monster.”
b. A bicicleta parece que está partida.
/the bicycle seems that is broken‐fem sg/
“The bicycle seems to be broken.”
236  Inês Duarte and Maria Cristina Figueiredo Silva
The fact that specific indefinites (see (5)) are ruled out of this construction, whereas both definite
DPs (see (4)) and bare nouns (see (6)) are possible, corroborates the left‐dislocation analysis pro-
posed by Barbosa, since the latter qualify as left‐dislocated topics, whereas the former do not.
(5)  a.  *
Umas meninas parece que estão doentes.
/some girls seem‐3 sg that are sick pl/
b. *
Apenas uma criança parece que ficou ferida.
/only one child seem‐3 sg that was hurt‐fem sg/
(6) a. Perfumes franceses parece que se esgotaram.
/perfumes French seem‐3 sg that cl-3 sold-out-3 pl/
“French perfumes, they seem to be out of stock.”
b. Cães raivosos parece que morderam uma criança.
/dogs enraged‐3 pl seem‐3 sg that bite‐past‐3 pl a child/
“Dogs with rabies, it seems that they bit a child.”
Now, if preverbal subjects in “regular” SV clauses were left‐dislocated, we would expect the
same type of effects to show up, that is, we would expect both definite DPs and bare nouns
to be possible and specific indefinites to be ruled out. However, this prediction is not borne
out: as (7) and (8) show, both definite DPs and specific indefinites give rise to grammatical
sentences, whereas bare nouns yield ungrammatical ones.2
(7) a. Os perfumes franceses esgotaram‐se.
/the perfumes French sold-out-3 pl-cl-3/
“The French perfumes sold out.”
b. Uns perfumes franceses esgotaram‐se.
/D‐indef‐pl perfumes French sold-out-3 pl-cl-3/
“Some French perfumes sold out.”
c. *
Perfumes franceses esgotaram‐se.
/perfumes French sold-out-3 pl-cl-3/
(8) a. As crianças ficaram feridas.
/the children are hurt-fem pl/
“The children got hurt.”
b. Umas crianças ficaram feridas.
/some children got hurt-fem pl/
“Some children got hurt.”
c. Apenas uma criança ficou ferida.
/only one child was hurt/
“Only one child got hurt.”
d. *
Criança ficou ferida.
/child got hurt/
Based on this kind of evidence, we conclude that in sentences like (2a), (3a), (7) and (8) the
preverbal subject is in Spec, TP. Furthermore, the contrast between the (b) sentences of (1)
and (2) strongly suggests that the rich φ‐features on T do not behave like a pronoun, since the
sensitivity of the number feature to the position of the subject DP would be difficult to
account for under current minimalist assumptions. Instead, if both EP and BP have a strong
EPP (or Edge) feature on T, the presence of an expletive pro in sentences with postverbal
subjects follows. Thus, the contrast between the two agreement options shown in (1) could
The Null Subject Parameter and the Structure of the Sentence in EP and BP  237
be attributed to the presence in the Numeration of an expletive pro with specified number
features (like French “il” or English “it”) in (1b) or of one without number specification (like
English “there”) in (1a).
Therefore, we will adopt the classic approach that takes rich φ‐features on T not to behave
like a pronoun, but instead to license an empty weak pronoun, pro.
2.  Null Subjects: distribution and licensing
Let us start positing our working hypothesis. We will assume a version of Rizzi’s 1986 insight
which supposes that a null subject, to be grammatical in a given language, must be formally
licensed and must also have its features identified.
Adopting the classification of Roberts and Holmberg (2010), it seems that consistent and
partial null subject languages share the property of formally licensing its features (whatever
the theoretical implementation of this idea might be).
Hence, the problem faced by partial null subject languages is the identification of the
features of the null subject. Here, it is worth to remember the well‐known Benveniste’s
generalization and notice that there is a crucial difference between 1st and 2nd person,
on one hand, and 3rd person, on the other. The actual impact of this idea will become
clear in a moment.
EP as well as BP display the number feature in the verbal paradigm—in other words,
the difference between singular and plural is always marked. However, with respect to
the person feature, these two varieties of Portuguese exhibit a very different behavior. EP
clearly presents the three values of the person feature—1st, 2nd and 3rd—in its verbal
paradigm, as shown in (9a) below, where it is possible to see the six different endings on
the verb form (but see below). Adopting Galves’ (2001:111) formulation of the problem,
BP does not mark the semantic value of person, but just its syntactic value. This means
that the opposition is not threefold in BP, but only twofold, allowing a representation
simply as [+person] or [−person]. Observe in (9b) below how the different endings are
distributed in the BP paradigm: the first persons have particular endings, but 2nd and
3rd persons systematically share the same morpheme, which is true also for other moods
and tenses in the verbal paradigm:
(9)  Verbal paradigm of a regular verb belonging to the first conjugation in the Indicative
Present: cantar (to sing)
	EP BP
a.  eu canto b.  eu canto (I sing)
  tu cantas você canta (you sing)
  ele canta ele canta (he sings)
  nós cantamos nós cantamos3
(we sing)
  vós cantais vocês cantam (you sing)
  eles cantam eles cantam (they sing)
Putting things in more theoretical terms, in BP, there is no person feature on T, which means
that the three persons are identical concerning identification, and a pronominal form—like
eu, você, nós/a gente, vocês—must co‐occur with the verb form.
Hence, sentences in (10), which are perfect in EP, seldom occur with 1st and 2nd person
pronominal subjects in BP corpora like NURC or VARSUL, even if the (educated) native
speakers recognize the verb forms as 1st and 2nd person ones.
238  Inês Duarte and Maria Cristina Figueiredo Silva
(10)  a.  Compr‐ei um bolo.
/bought‐1st a cake/
“I bought a cake.”
b. Compr‐aste um bolo.
/bought‐2nd a cake/
“You bought a cake.”
In fact, M. E. Duarte (1993: 117) clearly shows that the occurrence of 1st and 2nd person null
subjects in a corpus of plays declined very impressively during the nineteenth century and
the beginnings of the twentieth century, being scarce in the second half of this century.
The same is true for main interrogative sentences: while in EP null subjects of 1st or 2nd
person are perfect, as shown in (11), in BP their occurrence in corpora is almost nonexistent:
(11)  Onde é que compraste o bolo?4
/where is that bought‐2nd‐sg the cake?/
“Where did you buy the cake?”
Let us now go back to the paradigm in (9a). In standard EP, speakers do no longer use the
2nd person plural form of the verb, although they understand it if they hear it.5
Instead, they
use the 3rd plural form, combined with the pronoun “vocês,”6
as shown in (12):
(12) a. Vocês    
fizeram uma ótima sopa.
/you‐pl  made‐3 pl an excellent soup/
“You cooked an excellent soup”
b. O que é que vocês comeram?
/what is that you‐pl ate‐3 pl/
“What did you eat?”
It is also the case that the singular pronoun “você” alternates with “tu,” the former being
used as a polite form of address, whereas the latter is used when speaker and addressee
know each other well and are engaged in an informal verbal interaction. Hence, in contem-
porary standard EP, the paradigm in (9a) must in fact be reformulated as in (13):
(13)  eu canto (I sing-1 sg)
tu cantas (yousg
sing-2 sg : semantic 2nd person, syntactic 2nd person)
você canta (yousg
sing-3 sg: semantic 2nd person, syntactic 3rd person)
ele canta (he sing-3 sg)
nós cantamos (we sing-1 pl)
vocês cantam (youpl
sing-3 pl: semantic 2nd person, syntactic 3rd person)
eles cantam (they sing-3 pl)
As a consequence, out‐of‐the‐blue declarative sentences with null subjects like the ones
­
presented in (14) are systematically ambiguous:
(14)  a.  Comeu a sopa toda.
aˈ.  “You ate all the soup.”
aˈˈ.  “He/She ate all the soup.”
b. Comeram a sopa toda.
bˈ.  “You ate all the soup.”
bˈˈ.  “They ate all the soup.”
bˈˈˈ.  “People ate all the soup.”7
The Null Subject Parameter and the Structure of the Sentence in EP and BP  239
Summarizing: in EP the Person feature on T is able to identify 1st and 2nd person forms
with non‐conflicting semantic and syntactic features, hence a pronominal form is not
needed for this purpose; on the contrary, when there are conflicting features, the Person
feature on T cannot identify the relevant feature of a null subject. In BP, the lack of a
person feature on T forces the subject position to be filled with 1st and 2nd person
pronouns.
Let us now focus on (semantic) 3rd person null subjects, a rather interesting topic of
inquiry in EP and in BP, since in both varieties they surprisingly share the need of an accessible
antecedent in order to be identified.
This accessible antecedent can be, in both languages, a DP in anA‐bar position (a discourse
topic) or a DP in an A‐position, in which case the identification requirements are the same in
BP and in EP.
Therefore, in out‐of‐the‐blue declarative sentences, neither in EP nor in BP a null subject
is possible; however, if there is a salient topic, as in question‐answer pairs, the null subject
becomes perfect in both languages:
(15) A:  ‐ E o Joãoi
? B: ‐ eci
viajou.
/and the João?/ /eci
travelled/
“What about João?” “He travelled”
The same facts are attested if the null subject is in an embedded sentence: in a question–
answer pair, the discourse topic is the responsible for the identification of the null
subject:
(16) a: ‐ E o Joãoi
? b: ‐ A Maria disse que eci
viajou
/and the João?/ /the Maria said that ___ travelled/
“What about João?” “Maria said that he travelled”
In out‐of‐the‐blue embedded contexts, the only possibility for a null embedded subject in BP
is to take as antecedent a DP in A‐position: this antecedent must be in an immediately higher
sentence, it must c‐command the null subject and split antecedents are not acceptable, as (17)
shows—the examples were taken from Ferreira (2004)’s paper, but the same facts were noted
by Moreira da Silva (1983) and Figueiredo Silva (1996):
(17) a.  * O Joãoi
disse que a Maria acha que eci
é esperto.
/the João said that the Maria finds that __ is smart‐masc./
b. * A mãe do Joãoi
acha que eci
é esperto.
/the mother of the João find that __ is smart‐masc./
c. * O Joãoi
disse que a Mariaj
acha que eci+j
são espertos:
/the João said that the Maria find that ___ are smart‐masc.‐ pl./
Interestingly, the same judgments hold for (17) in EP, that is, the ec in embedded subject posi-
tion cannot be co‐referent with the co‐indexed DPs in the higher clauses. But, crucially, and
differently from BP, the ec can only be disjoint in reference from the closest higher subject if
it refers to the hearer.
With respect to 3rd person definite subjects, very relevant differences between EP and BP
appear when the fulfilling of the embedded subject position is concerned, whether the matrix
subject is a referential or a quantified DP. These effects, known in generative literature respec-
tively as “avoid pronoun” (see (18)) and “overt pronoun constraint” (see (19)), set apart EP
240  Inês Duarte and Maria Cristina Figueiredo Silva
from BP, as we see in the judgments given by Portuguese and Brazilian informants to (18)
and (19) below:8
(18)  O João disse que ele comprou o carro.
“João said that he bought a car.”
EP: *
o Joãoi
/elei
BP: ✓
o Joãoi
/elei
(19) Cada professor disse que a Maria acha que ele é inteligente.
“Each teacher said that Maria thinks that he is intelligent.”
EP: *
cada professori
/elei
BP: ✓
cada professori
/elei
The facts concerning only DPs and VP‐ellipsis go in the same direction, with minor
differences:
(20) a.  Só o Joãoi
acha que elei
vai ganhar a corrida
/only the João thinks that he will win the race/
“Only João thinks that he will win the race.”
b. Só o João acha que ec vai ganhar a corrida
/only the João thinks that ec will win the race/
“Only João thinks that he will win the race.”
(21) a. O Joãoi
acha que elei
vai ganhar a corrida e a Maria também.
/the Joãoi
thinks that hei
will win the race and the Maria too/
“João thinks that he will win the race and Maria does too.”
b. O João acha que ec vai ganhar a corrida e a Maria também.
/the Joãoi
thinks that eci
will win the race and the Maria too/
“Joãoi
thinks that hei
will win the race and Maria does too.”
In EP, only the b. sentences are possible with the co‐reference reading and therefore they are
ambiguous between the sloppy and the strict readings.
On the contrary, as observed by Ferreira (2004), BP accepts also the sentence in which the
embedded subject position is filled by a lexical pronoun co‐indexed with the matrix subject.
Nevertheless, this sentence does not have the same interpretation as the sentence with an
empty category in embedded subject position. In the case of only‐sentences, the sentence
with the co‐indexed lexical pronoun (20a) has only the strict reading, meaning that João is
the only person who believes in João’s victory, which implies that the sentence is false when
other people also believe in João’s victory. On the contrary, the sentence with an empty cate-
gory in subject position (20b) means that João is the only person who believes in his own
victory, hence it will be false if there is another self‐confident person.
The behavior of pseudo‐stripping structures in PB is also different from the one observed
for EP. Thus, (21a) is ambiguous between a strict and a sloppy reading, hence being inter-
preted as meaning that João thinks that he will win the race and that Maria also thinks that he,
João, will win the race or as meaning that João thinks that he will win the race and that Maria
thinks that she, Maria, will win the race. By contrast, (21b) has only the sloppy reading (i.e.
João thinks that he will win the race and that Maria thinks that she, Maria, will win the race).9
The behavior of BP null subjects has also been examined inside (strong and weak) islands.
It should be kept in mind that the percentage of such sentences in BP’s corpora is very low,
The Null Subject Parameter and the Structure of the Sentence in EP and BP  241
hence null subjects have little chance to show up. When we test data like those in (22)–(24),
people are reluctant in their judgments, which suggests that the sentences are perfect but
they are not part of the vernacular BP system—they seem to be part of the language learned
at school. As expected, the sentences sound quite good in EP—(22) illustrates relative sen-
tences, (23) exemplifies adjunct islands and (24) weak islands in Portuguese, like Complex
NP complements and embedded interrogatives:
(22)  a.  O Joãoi
gostou dos livros que eci
leu na escola.
/the Joãoi
liked of+the books that eci
read at+the school/
“Joãoi
liked the books hei
read at school.”
b. O Joãoi
foi a um/num restaurante onde eci
comeu polvo
/the Joãoi
went to a restaurant where eci
ate octopus/
“Joãoi
went to a restaurant where hei
ate octopus.”/
c. O Joãoi
disse que as meninas que eci
encontrou na rua eram estrangeiras.
/the Joãoi
said that the girls that eci
met in the street were foreigners/
“Joãoi
said that the girls hei
met in the street were foreigners.”
(23) a. O João comeu um pastel de carne quando eci
foi à/ na feira.
/the Joãoi
ate a meat pie when eci
went to+the fair/
“Joãoi
ate a meat pie when hei
went to the street market.”
b. O João comprou o livro porque eci
ficou impressionado com o autor.
/the Joãoi
bought the book because eci
remained impressed by the author/
“Joãoi
bought the book because hei
was impressed by its author.”
c. O João comprou o livro embora eci
tivesse pouco dinheiro
/the Joãoi
bought the book although eci
had little money/
“Joãoi
bought the book although hei
had little money.”
(24) a. A Maria negou o boato (de) que eci
recebeu dinheiro do Pedro.
/the Mariai
denied the rumor (of) that eci
received money from+the Pedro/
“Mariai
denied the rumor that shei
received money from Pedro.”
b. O João não sabe que livro eci
leu na semana passada.
/the Joãoi
not know what book eci
read at+the last week/
“Joãoi
does not know which book hei
read last week.”
c. O João não sabe a/pra quem eci
emprestou esse livro.
/the Joãoi
not know to whom eci
lent this book/
“Joãoi
does not know to whom hei
lent this book.”
The discussion concerning ditransitive verbs with a DP/PP plus a sentential complement
(like autorizar “authorize” or proibir “forbid”) is beyond the scope of this chapter; they are
control verbs in Portuguese and so we direct the reader to the chapter on control.10
Summarizing: the data above suggest that in what concerns 3rd person null subjects, both
EP and BP behave alike with respect to their referential status: contrary to overt 3rd person
pronouns, they must seek for an A‐ or A’‐ antecedent, or else, in EP, pick up the addressee as
their ­referent.11
However, they behave quite differently with respect to the “avoid pronoun”
and the “overt pronoun constraint,” EP forbidding co‐reference between an embedded overt
­
pronoun and the matrix subject, whereas BP allows it.
Let us now look at non‐referential null subjects. It has long been observed that EP behaves
like other Romance null subject languages: it resorts to null subjects to express non‐specificity
in both existential and generic sentences; as (25) shows, either a 3rd person plural ec is used
242  Inês Duarte and Maria Cristina Figueiredo Silva
or a clitic of the reflexive morphological paradigm, “se,” co‐occurs with a 3rd person singular
verb form:
(25)  a.  Dizem que o governo vai aumentar outra vez os impostos.
/say‐3 pl that the government goes raise‐inf again the taxes./
“People say the government will raise taxes again.”
b. Sabe‐se há muito que a Terra é redonda.
/knows‐cl‐3 there‐is much that the Earth is round/
“Everyone knows for long that the Earth is round.”
But in BP, while (25a) is quite natural, (25b) is scarce in the available corpora, due to the fact
that clitic pronouns in general are undergoing a massive process of loss. Related to the pro-
gressive loss of sentences like (25b) in BP, the grammaticality of sentences like the ones in
(26)—originally due to Galves (2001)—is considered by Holmberg (2010) a property of
partial null subject languages:
(26) Aqui vende sapato. (*
EP; OK
BP)
/here sells shoe/
“Shoes are sold here.”
According to him, in (26), a null generic subject occurs in Spec, TP. However, an alternative
analysis has been provided by Avelar (2009), Avelar and Galves (2011) and Munhoz and
Naves (2012), who consider sentences like (26) cases of locative inversion structures,
where the locative adverb fills the Spec,TP position. Raising of locatives and possessor
phrases to subject position is a common property of the innovative sentential patterns of
BP. Besides the locative inversion with an arbitrary subject in (26), Munhoz and Naves
(2012) distinguish locative topic subject constructions and genitive topic subject con-
structions, illustrated in (27) and (28), respectively—these examples are originally due to
Pontes (1987):
(27) O carro furou o pneu.
/the car punctures the tyre/
“The car’s tyre punctured.”
(28) Essa casa bate sol.
/that house hits sun/
“That house gets a lot of sun.”
According to Naves, Pilati, and Salles (2014), whereas sentences like (26) are possible with
transitive and unergative verbs, genitive topic subject constructions are typically restricted
to monoargumental unaccusative verbs and locative topic subject constructions only occur
with biargumental unaccusative predicates.
Sentences with raising of genitives to subject position, like (27), are not possible in EP. In
fact, the corresponding grammatical sentence would involve raising of the whole DP “o pneu
do carro” (the car’s tyre) to subject position, as shown in (29).
(29) O pneu do carro furou.
/the tyre of the car punctured/
“The car’s tyre punctured.”
The Null Subject Parameter and the Structure of the Sentence in EP and BP  243
Similarly, a grammatical sentence of EP corresponding to (28) would involve fronting of the
locative PP selected for by the verb, as shown in (30):
(30) Nessa casa bate o sol.
/in+that house hits the sun/
“In that house one gets a lot of sun.”
In what concerns null subjects of weather and raising verbs, both varieties of Portuguese
behave alike; as (31) shows, no expletive overt subjects are available in these contexts.12
(31)  a.  Choveu toda a noite.
/rained‐3 sg all the night
“It rained the whole night through.”
b. Parece que o professor vai chegar atrasado.
/seems that the teacher goes arrive‐inf late‐masc‐sg/
“It seems that the teacher will be late.”
Summarizing: although both varieties of Portuguese behave as expected with respect to
expletive subjects of weather and raising verbs, in what concerns non specific null subjects,
it remains a matter of dispute to consider 3rd person singular verb forms preceded by
locative adverbs as instances of generic null subjects. However, the high frequency of genitive
and locative topic subject constructions in spontaneous speech suggests that, in BP, the
locative adverb in sentences like (26) fills the Spec,TP position.
3.  VS Order
The classical view of the Null Subject Parameter associated the property of null subjects with
the possibility of free inversion, which means that null subject languages would also be
­
languages with VS order as an option in the grammar. However, VS is not exactly free, in the
sense that, even in consistent null subject languages, VS must meet certain conditions, both
structural and pragmatic. In particular, discourse properties like information focus and
­
contrast play a role in the appropriate use of VS.
First, it must be noticed that both in PE and in PB, the right dislocation of the subject is perfect,
asshownbytheexamplesin(32a)below,somethingimpossibleinlanguageslikeFrenchorEnglish;
however, both varieties also accept (32b), with a lexical pronoun in subject position, associated to
the right dislocated subject—a construction also known as “false inversion” (cf. Kato 1987):
(32) a. Comem muito chocolate, essas crianças.
/eat‐3 pl much chocolate, these childen/
“They eat a lot of chocolate, these children.”
b. Elas comem muito chocolate, essas crianças.
/they eat much chocolate, these children/
“They eat a lot of chocolate, these children.”
Sentences in (32) are adequate in a context in which “these children” is given information,
presents the contour of a prosodic phrase and is typically deaccented.
Secondly, VS with unaccusative verbs is quite frequent in EP. With such verbs, the VS
order encodes the meaning that the sentence expresses a thetic judgment, that is, that it is
presentational or that the postverbal subject is the information focus.
(33) Chegou o carteiro.
/arrived the postman/
“The postman arrived.”
244  Inês Duarte and Maria Cristina Figueiredo Silva
In BP, VS with unaccusative verbs is restricted to presentational contexts. So, whereas in EP
(33) is possible in the two contexts presented in (34), in BP it is only possible in the a.
context:
(34) a. (Eu sei o que se passou e vou contar‐te.) Chegou o carteiro (e arranjou a campainha).
“(I know what happened and I am going to tell you) The postman arrived (and
fixed the bell).”
b. (Quem chegou?) Chegou o carteiro.
“(Who arrived?) It was the postman.”
In EP, VS is also possible with unergative verbs in presentational contexts or when the sub-
ject is information focus; but contrary to what happens with unaccusatives, this word order
is typically restricted to indefinite subject DPs (see (35a)) or else to subject DPs which are
“descriptive definite” (Pinto, 1997), that is, which denote a uniquely identifiable referent in
a given discourse context (see (35b)):
(35) a. Trabalham muitos operários naquela fábrica.
/work‐3 pl many workers in that plant/
“There work many workers in that plant.”
b. (Quem telefonou?) Telefonou o João/o teu estudante italiano.
/(who phoned?) Phoned the João/the your Italian student/
“(Who phoned?) It was João/your Italian student.”
In BP, as already noted by Nascimento (1984), VS is still possible with unergative verbs in
presentational contexts, where subjects are typically indefinite (see the a. examples of (34)–
(35). In line with this author, Tarallo and Kato (1989) also observed that VS is still possible
with some unergative verbs, provided the subject is indefinite. They illustrated this possi-
bility with the sentences in (36):
(36) a. Viajou um estranho comigo. (Tarallo and Kato 1989: (26a))
/travelled a stranger with.me/
“A stranger travelled with me.”
b. Telefonou um cliente. (id: 26b)
/phoned a customer/
“A customer phoned.”
However, VS is completely excluded when the subject is informational focus, hence the b.
sentences of (34)–(35) above are felt as ill‐formed by Brazilian speakers. In fact, it seems that
for many Brazilian speakers the only perfectly grammatical VS sentences with unergative
verbs are locative inversion structures, such as the one illustrated in (37)—the example is
from Pilati (2006):
(37) Ali dormem as crianças.
/there sleep-3 pl the children/
“The children sleep there.”
Getting back to EP, with transitive and ditransitive verbs, VS is restricted to contexts where
the subject is information focus. If the complement is also new, as in answers to multiple
wh‐questions, the resulting word order will be VSO, as shown in (38a); if the complement is
given information, the felicitous word order will be VOS, as illustrated in (38b):
The Null Subject Parameter and the Structure of the Sentence in EP and BP  245
(38)  a.  (Quem testemunhou o quê?) Testemunhou esta senhora um rapto.
/(who witnessed what?) witnessed this lady a kidnapping/
“(Who witnessed what?) THIS LADY witnessed A KIDNAPPING.”
b. (Quem testemunhou o rapto?) Testemunhou o rapto esta senhora.
/(who witnessed the kidnapping? witnessed the kidnapping this lady/
“(Who witnessed the kidnapping?) It was this lady.”
If the speaker chooses the answer in (38a), the clause has an exhaustive pair‐list reading (see
Costa 1998, 2004). So, the answer cannot be continued in either of the two following ways:
(39) a. *Testemunhou esta senhora um rapto, os outros não sei.
/witnessed this lady a kidnapping, the others not know/
b. *Testemunhou esta senhora um rapto e este senhor também testemunhou.
/witnessed this lady a kidnapping and this man also witnessed/
On the contrary, if the answer to the question in (38a) is a SVO clause, no exhaustivity is
implied, and the answer can be felicitously continued, as shown in (40):
(40) (Quem testemunhou o quê?)
a. Esta senhora testemunhou um rapto, os outros não sei.
/this lady witnessed a kidnapping, the others not know/
“This lady witnessed a kidnapping, the others I do not know.”
b. Esta senhora testemunhou um rapto e este senhor também testemunhou.
/this lady witnessed a kidnapping and this man also witnessed/
“This lady witnessed a kidnapping and this man did too.”
Accepting the subject‐in‐situ generalization of Alexiadou and Agnastatopoulos (2001, 2007), in
(38a) the subject was moved out of vP before Spell‐Out, and so was the nominal object in (38b),13
andspeakersjudgeVSOandVOSasquitemarkedorders.So,althoughtheanswersin(38)areboth
grammatical and felicitous in EP, it should be stressed that, instead of full VSO or VOS clauses,
speakers clearly prefer to produce fragment answers (see (41a, b)) or (pseudo)clefts (see (41c)):14
(41) a. (Quem testemunhou o quê?) Esta senhora, um rapto.
/(Who witnessed what?) This lady, a kidnapping/
b. (Quem testemunhou o rapto?) (Testemunhou) Esta senhora.
/(Who witnessed the kidnapping?(witnessed) This lady/
c. (Quem testemunhou o rapto?) Quem testemunhou o rapto foi esta senhora.
/(Who witnessed the kidnapping?) Who witnessed the kidnapping
was this lady/
“(Who witnessed the kidnapping?) Who witnessed the kidnapping
was this lady.
In contexts like the ones illustrated in (38), VSO and VOS are impossible in BP. However,
Pilati (2006) observes that VOS is not completely excluded, in particular in sports reporting
(see (42a)), although she also acknowledges that VOS sentences sound more natural when
the subject is a heavy DP, as expected (see (42b)):
(42) a. ? Aponta o centro do campo o árbitro.
/point to the center of the field the referee/
“The referee points to the center of the field”
b. Ganha o jogo quem completar o tabuleiro.
/wins the game who complete the board/
“Who completes the board wins the game.”
246  Inês Duarte and Maria Cristina Figueiredo Silva
The different restrictions holding for EP and BP with respect to VS word orders have con-
sequences for the way categorical and thetic judgments are expressed. In EP, as observed
in Duarte (1987), the former are expressed through SV orders, whereas VS may express the
latter. In what concerns BP, Britto (1998) suggests that categorical judgments are packaged
in left dislocation structures (see (43)), while SV with the subject internal to TP expresses
thetic judgments. In fact, SV in BP, much as in English, exhibits at least two different into-
national patterns, one to express focalized subjects (an impossible interpretation for VS
structures in BP) and another one to convey thetic judgments (see Figueiredo Silva and
Seara 2009).
(43)  A Maria, ela faz doce pra vender.
/the Maria, she makes sweets to sell/
“As for Maria, she makes sweets to sell.”
Costa, Duarte, and Silva (2006) suggest an alternative analysis for sentences like (43) in BP:
they consider them instances of double subject constructions, and claim these have prop-
erties which distinguish them from Romance‐like left dislocations. In particular, personal
pronouns may double quantified NPs, something which is impossible in regular Romance
left dislocations (see the contrast between (44a) and (44b)):
(44)  a.  Toda criança ela aprende rápido a gostar de coca‐cola. (Costa, Duarte and Silva 2006:
(1b))
/each child she learns quickly to like of coca‐cola/
“Every child quickly learns to like coke.”
b. *Tout enfant il aprend vite à aimer la coca‐cola.
The authors argue that, in BP, the personal pronoun is the spelling of the person feature
internal to the DP subject, a hypothesis in line with Galves’ (1993) proposal that the person
feature in T is devoid of semantic content in BP.
Another context where VS occurs in EP is in Contrastive Focus Fronting structures,
illustrated in example (45):
(45) a. Estás cansada. Vai passar uns dias na praia. (Costa and Martins 2011)
/are‐2 sg tired-fem sg. Go‐2 sg spend some days on‐the beach/
“You are tired. Go and spend a few days on the beach.”
b. Isso queria eu.
/that would‐like‐1 sg I/
“That is what I would like.”
The fronted constituent in the B sentence of (45) is a demonstrative, D‐linked with the
propositional content of the preceding clause, which it resumes, and the sentence conveys
a speaker’s attitude that contrasts with the expectation the speaker assumes to be the state
of the other participant in the discourse.15
The fact that in Contrastive Focus Fronting struc-
tures VS is obligatory, combined with the fact that proclisis is also obligatory, strongly
suggest that both the fronted D‐linked constituent and the verb raise to some position in
the left periphery.
Finally, in EP, VS is also an option in root wh‐interrogative clauses. In fact, the alternative
to VS (see (46a)) is the innovative pattern dating from the eighteenth century, and consisting
in the insertion of “é que” right‐adjacent to the wh‐constituent, as illustrated in (46b):
The Null Subject Parameter and the Structure of the Sentence in EP and BP  247
(46)  a.  O que comeu o rapaz?
/the that ate the boy?/
“What did the boy eat?”
b. O que é que o rapaz comeu?
/the that is that the boy ate?/
“What did the boy eat?”
In VS root wh‐interrogatives, V raises to C, as shown by Ambar (1992). In root wh‐inter-
rogatives like the one illustrated in (46b), the expression “é que,” formed by the present
of the verb “ser” (to be) and the complementizer “que,” suffered a process of reanalysis
which turned it into a single complex complementizer. This innovative pattern is expand-
ing in EP.
According to Tarallo and Kato (1989) and many more after them, (46b) is the default
pattern for wh‐interrogatives in BP. Sentences with VS, in particular if long or cyclic move has
taken place, are strongly rejected by native BP speakers, as illustrated in (47):16
(47) a.  O que perguntou o teu amigo onde encontraste? (✓EP; *BP)
/what asked the your friend where found-2 sg/
“What did your friend ask where you found?”
b. O que disse o teu amigo que a mãe ofereceu aos meus tios? (✓EP; *BP)
/what said the your friend that the mother offered to+the my
uncles?/
“What did your friend say that his mother offered my uncles?”
The rejection of VS in root wh‐interrogatives is expected under Ambar (1992)’s analysis of
these sentences as involving V‐to(‐T‐to)‐C, a conservative property of Romance grammars
already lost in BP.
Summarizing: VS has been historically associated with the null subject property, a hypo-
thesis confirmed by the EP data presented above. However, even in a consistent null lan-
guage like EP, VS is not free: in declarative sentences, it must meet some pragmatic conditions,
and structural conditions such as monoargumentality affect the speakers’ preference for its
use. With respect to BP, we have seen that the distribution of VS is highly constrained.
Brazilian speakers only consider VS natural in sentences with unaccusative verbs in presen-
tational situations; in other contexts, VS is considered both a well formed structure and a
felicitous one solely in cases of locative inversion. With transitive verbs, only in very special
contexts, such as sports reporting is VOS available. Finally, VS in instances of Heavy NP Shift
is found both in EP and in BP, an option not associated to null subject phenomenology, avail-
able also to English.
4.  Concluding remarks
In this chapter we have surveyed a number of properties of EP and BP related to the
structure of the clause and the null subject parameter, and also discussed a correlated
property of null subject languages, namely what used to be called “free inversion.”
Our work made use of a specific hypothesis about the null subject parameter, formu-
lated in Roberts and Holmberg (2010). Following these authors, we have claimed that EP
is a consistent null subject language, since it shows the cluster of properties Perlmutter
(1971) and Rizzi (1982) associated with the Null Subject Parameter; these properties are
summarized in (48).
248  Inês Duarte and Maria Cristina Figueiredo Silva
(48)  a.  The possibility of a silent, referential, definite subject of finite clauses.
b. “Free subject inversion.”
c. The apparent absence of complementiser‐trace effects.
d. Rich agreement inflection on finite verbs.
Roberts and Holmberg 2010: (22), 16
The properties listed in (48a, b and d) were abundantly illustrated in Sections 1 to 3 for EP.
The sentence in (49) exemplifies the absence of complementizer‐trace effects—the wh‐
constituent is extracted from the Spec, vP position, the verb raises to T and the complemen-
tizer “que” (that) is merged in the embedded C position, as usual in embedded clauses:
(49)  Quemi
é que ele disse que dormiu eci
na festa?
/ who is that he said that slept in+the party?/
“Who did he say slept in the party?”
As we observed in the preceding sections, the cluster of properties listed in (48) is not fully
found in BP—in fact, only property (48c) is observed with no restrictions. The loss of verb
morphology (see (9b) above)) probably entailed a “defective” person feature, with no
semantic feature‐value, as suggested by Galves (2001). Thus, free inversion is severely
restricted and so is also the occurrence of referential null subjects.
However, BP can not be considered a non‐pro drop language like English or French, as the
data presented so far show. Additional evidence for the significant difference between BP
and these languages comes from the occurrence of referential null subjects in sequences of
sentences, licensed by an accessible topic (see (50)):
(50) “Holly (nota Gabriel): O que é que o nosso anjoi
tem hoje?
/what is that our angeli
has today?
“What is wrong with our angeli
today?”
Margareth: proi
Tá com essa cara desde que proi
chegou do ginásio. proi
Nem foi em casa almoçar.
/proi
Is with that face since that proi
came from+the school. proi
not+even went in
house lunch.inf/
“He is in this mood since he got back from school.”
Dona Irene: Com certeza proi
vai ficar novamente em segunda época. Desde que proi
chegou
que proi
não pára de olhar a caderneta.”
/for sure proi
will stay again in second period. Since that proi
came that proi
not
stopped of look.inf at the school report booklet/
“No doubt he will again be left behind for the second examination period. He has
not stopped to look at his school report booklet since he got back.”
M. E. Duarte 1993: (86), 118
So, most authors agree in considering BP a partial null subject language. In fact, in BP, one
finds the set of properties Holmberg, Nayudy, and Sheehan (2009) claim to identify partial
pro‐drop languages. This set of properties is listed in (51) for root and in (52) for finite
embedded clauses:
(51) a. Expletive null subjects (see (31))
b. Generic null subjects (see (26))
c. Subject–verb inversion in declarative sentences with unaccusative predicates (see
(1) and (33))
d. Impossibility of null referential subjects in root clauses (but see the discussion on
example (15))
The Null Subject Parameter and the Structure of the Sentence in EP and BP  249
(52)  a.  Overt non‐controlled “topic” subject pronouns (see (53) below)
b. Null or overt controlled subjects (see (54), a partial repetition of (18))
(53) a. Eu sei que você vai chegar atrasado.
/I know that you go arrive late/
“I know you will be late.”
b. *Eui
sei que ecj
vai chegar atrasado.
/I know that go-3 sg to arrive late/
(54) a. Joãoi
disse que elei/j
comprou o carro.
/João said that he bought a car/
“João said that he bought a car.”
b. Joãoi
disse que eci
comprou um carro.
/João said that bought a car/
However, it is not completely clear whether the properties listed in (51) and (52) are defining
ones, that is, whether every language must exhibit the whole set to deserve the label “partial
null subject” language. The observation of BP suggests that this is not the case. In fact, as (50)
and (15), repeated here as (55), show, null referential subjects in root clauses are possible in
BP, provided an accessible topic identifies their content, which is a violation of the property
in (51d):
(55) a. ‐ E o Joãoi
? b. ‐ eci
viajou.
/and the João?/ /eci
travelled/
“What about João?” “He travelled”
So, it is possible that in the ‘scale of liberality’ of null subject language types proposed in
Roberts and Holmberg (2010: (16), 12) reproduced in (56) below, (at least) the type “partial
null subjects” identifies a continuum where one may find intermediate stages of ‘partiality’:
(56) expletive null subjects ⊃ partial null subjects ⊃ consistent null subjects ⊃ discourse
pro‐drop
Notes
1	 Following Chomsky (2000: 102), a.o., we adopt throughout a parsimonious functional architecture
of the clause: namely, C (unselected or selected for by V) selecting for TP, T, selecting for vP, and v
selecting for VP, the lexical category.
2	 The grammaticality judgments of (7c) and (8d) concern declarative sentences and not titles, leads or
other types of abbreviated speech.
3	 Both in EP and in BP, a DP grammaticalized as a personal pronoun, “a gente,” occurs in informal
speech. This form, although semantically plural and always including the speaker in its denotation,
determines verb agreement in 3rd person singular.
4	 The most common strategy to form root wh‐.interrogatives in contemporary EP is to insert the
expression “é que” (is that) to the right of the fronted wh‐phrase; this strategy avoids the cost of
moving the verb to C, something considered a residue from V/2 (see Rizzi 1997). This is also a
common strategy in BP, where either “é que” or just “que” occur right adjacent to the wh‐phrase. So,
the examples of wh‐interrogatives given in this text are instances of this format.
250  Inês Duarte and Maria Cristina Figueiredo Silva
5	 This form is only productive in the northern dialects of EP.
6	“Você” and “vocês” originated in the polite form of address “Vossa Mercê” (Your Mercy), later gram-
maticalized as a personal pronoun. In popular dialects of EP an intermediate form in the gram-
maticalization path, “vossemecê(s),” is used instead of “você(s).”
7	 A null subject co‐occurring with a 3rd person plural verb form is one of the strategies available in
EP and BP to express non‐specific subjects in existential or generic sentences. See below.
8	 Again, examples (18) and (19) were taken from Ferreira (2004)’s paper, but, as he himself noted,
these facts have been remarked by other scholars, namely Moreira da Silva (1983), Viotti and
Negrão (2000), Modesto (2000), a. o. The facts concerning specifically DP antecedents and the
Avoid Pronoun Principle are presented by Duarte (1995).
9	 Ferreira (2004) presents another context in which EP and BP would differ: raising constructions,
or more precisely hyperraising constructions as (i) below, possible in BP but not in EP, according
to him:
(1) As meninas parecem que compraram um carro novo
/The girls seem(3a. pl) that bought(3a. pl.) a new car/
	 We will leave this construction out of our discussion, because, as observed by Modesto (2009), it is
not clear that the analysis of this type of sentence must necessarily take into account some partic-
ularity of the subject position (see Modesto 2009, and also Martins and Nunes 2005, Ferreira 2009).
However, it should be noticed that hyper‐raising is also attested in EP (Costa and Rooryck 1995,
Costa 2011).
10	 See Rodrigues 2004, Nunes 2008, Modesto 2010.
11	 See Frascarelli (2007) for the idea that in a consistent null subject language a definite null subject
seeks for an A‐topic antecedent; see Holmberg (2010) for the idea that in this case alone the null
subject pronoun is incorporated in T and the EPP is satisfied via incorporation.
12	 See Carrilho (2005), who proposes that in some EP dialects an expletive “ele” (he/it) occurs in the
left periphery of evaluative clauses.
13	 Costa (2004) suggests that in VSO clauses like (38a) the subject remains in situ, contra the Subject‐
in‐situ generalization, and that in VOS clauses like (38b) the object is scrambled.
14	Guerreiro (2004) conducted a production experiment with a sample of adult Portuguese
speakers with a higher education degree. The subjects were told to produce appropriate
answers to “simple” and multiple wh‐questions asked about a given context. VS answers were
produced only with monoargumental verbs. With two and three argument verbs, the subjects
resorted to clefting or to fragment answers to produce felicitous wh‐questions. These results
suggest that the Restriction of Monoargumentality proposed in Tarallo and Kato (1989) as a
grammar rule for BP is a preference rule in EP when both subject and object are DPs. These
results and observations are in line with the results obtained by Abalada (2011) in a compre-
hension experiment involving a truth‐value judgment task with pictures; 30 Portuguese adults
were tested and only 54.03 percent correct answers were obtained in the VOS (Subject =
information focus) condition.
15	 Duarte (1997) called these structures D‐linked presentations.
16	Grammatical counterparts of (47) in BP are (1) and (2) below, with “é que” right‐adjacent to the
higher wh‐constituent and SV order in the root clause:
(1) O que é que o teu amigo perguntou onde o Pedro viu? (✓EP; ✓BP)
(2) O que é que o teu amigo disse que a mãe deu aos meus tios? (✓EP; ✓BP)
	 It is also the case that the grammaticalized “é que” constituent suffered further reduction in
vernacular BP, and often occurs merely as “que” (that), the default finite complementizer.
Hence, speakers of this variety produce sentences like “O que que o rapaz comeu?” instead of
(46b).
The Null Subject Parameter and the Structure of the Sentence in EP and BP  251
References
Abalada, S. (2011). Aquisição de Estruturas com
Constituintes nas Periferias Esquerda e Direita
da Frase em Português Europeu. Masters
dissertation, Faculdade de Letras da
Universidade de Lisboa.
Alexiadou, A. and E. Anagnostopoulou (1998).
Parametrizing agr: word order, verb movement
and EPP‐checking. Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory, 16 (3), pp. 491–539.
Alexiadou, A. and E. Anagnostopoulou (2001).
The subject‐in‐situ generalization and the role
of case in driving computations. Linguistic
Inquiry, 36, pp. 193–231.
Alexiadou, A. and E. Anagnostopoulou (2007).
The subject‐in‐situ generalization revisited. In
U. Sauerland and H.‐M. Gärtner (eds.),
Interfaces + Recursion = Language? Chomsky’s
Minimalism and the View from Syntax‐Semantics.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, pp. 31–60.
Ambar, M. (1992). Para uma sintaxe da inversão
sujeito‐verbo em português. Coleção Estudos
Linguísticos. Lisbon: Edições Colibri.
Avelar, J. (2009). Inversão locativa e sintaxe de
concordância no português brasileiro. Matraga,
16, pp. 232–252.
Avelar, J. and C. Galves (2011). Tópico e
concordância em português brasileiro e
português europeu. In A. Costa, I. Falé, and
P. Barbosa (eds.), Textos Seleccionados do XXVI
Encontro Nacional da Associação Portuguesa de
Linguística. Porto: Associação Portuguesa de
Linguística, pp. 49–65.
Barbosa, P. (1995). Null Subjects. Ph.D.
dissertation, MIT.
Barbosa, P. (2000). Clitics: a window into the null
subject property. In J. Costa (ed.), Portuguese
Syntax: Comparative Studies. New York: Oxford
University Press, pp. 31–93.
Benveniste, E. (1966). Problèmes de linguistique
générale I. Paris: Gallimard.
Borer, H. (1986). The Syntax of Pronominal Clitics.
Syntax and Semantics 19. Orlando: Academic
Press.
Britto, H. (1998). Deslocamento à esquerda,
Resumptivo‐sujeito, Ordem SV e a Codificação
Sintática de Juízos Categórico e Tético no
Português do Brasil. Ph.D. dissertation,
Unicamp.
Cardinaletti, A. (1997). Subjects and clause structure.
In L. Haegemann (ed.), The New Comparative
Syntax. London: Longman, pp. 33–63.
Carrilho, E. (2005). Expetive “ele” in European
Portuguese dialects. Ph.D. dissertation,
Universidade de Lisboa.
Chomsky, N. (1982). Some Concepts and
Consequences of the Theory of Government and
Binding. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. (2000). New Horizons in the Study of
Language and Mind. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Costa, J. (1998). Word Order Variation. A
Constraint‐Based Approach. The Hague: Holland
Academic Graphics.
Costa, J. (2004). Subject Positions and Interfaces. The
Case of European Portuguese. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Costa, J. (2011). Topic prominence is not a
factor of variation between Brazilian and
European Portuguese. In J. Berns, H. Jacobs,
and T. Scheer (eds.), Romance Languages and
Linguistic Theory 2009. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins, pp. 71–88.
Costa, J. and I. Duarte (2003). Preverbal subjects
in null subject languages are not necessarily
dislocated. Journal of Portuguese Linguistics,
1 (2), pp. 159–175.
Costa, J., I. Duarte, and C. R. Silva (2006).
Construçoes de redobro em português
brasilero: sujetos tópicos vs soletração do traço
pessoa. Revista Leitura, 33, 135–145.
Costa, J. and C. Galves (2002). External subjects
in two varieties of Portuguese. In C. Beyssade,
R. Bok‐Bennema, F. Drijkoningen, and
P. Monachesi (eds.), Romance Languages and
Linguistic Theory 2000: Selected papers from
Going Romance 2000. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins, pp. 109–125.
Costa, J. and A. M. Martins (2011). “On focus
movement in European Portuguese”. Probus,
23(2), pp. 217–245.
Costa, J. and J. Rooryck (1995). On pseudo‐
raising in English and Portuguese. In L. Nash,
G. Tsoulas, and A. Zribi‐Hertz (eds.),
Proceedings of Langue et Grammaire 2, Paris VII,
1997, pp. 48–58.
Duarte, I. (1987). A construção de topicalização
na gramática do português: regência, ligação e
condições sobre movimento. Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Lisbon.
Duarte, I. (1997). Ordem de Palavras: Sintaxe e
Estrutura Discursiva. In A. M. Brito, F.
Oliveira, I. P. de Lima, and R. M. Martelo
252  Inês Duarte and Maria Cristina Figueiredo Silva
(eds.), Sentido que a Vida Faz. Estudos para Óscar
Lopes. Porto: Campo das Letras, pp. 581–592.
Duarte, M. E. L. (1993). Do pronome nulo ao
pronome pleno: a trajetória do sujeito no
português do Brasil. In I. Roberts and M. Kato
(eds.), Português Brasileiro: Uma Viagem
Diacrônica. Campinas: Editora da Unicamp,
pp. 107–128.
Duarte, M. E. L. (1995). A perda do princípio
“Evite pronome” no português brasileiro.
Ph.D. dissertation, Unicamp.
Ferreira, M. (2004). Hyperraising and null
subjects in Brazilian Portuguese. In A. Castro,
V. Hacquard, A. Salanova, and M. Ferreira
(eds.), Romance. Collected Papers on Romance
Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, pp. 57–85.
Ferreira, M. (2009). Null subjects and finite control
in Brazilian Portuguese. In J. Nunes (ed.),
Minimalist Essays on Brazilian Portuguese Syntax.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins, pp. 17–49.
Figueiredo Silva, M. C. (1996). A Posição Sujeito no
Português Brasileiro: Frases Finitas e Infinitivas.
Campinas: Editora da Unicamp.
Figueiredo Silva, M. C. and I. Seara (2009). Mais
sobre a entoação de sentenças com a ordem SV.
Revista Letras (UFPR), 75/76, pp. 171–181.
Frascarelli, M. (2007). Subjects, topics and the
interpretation of referential pro. An interface
approach to the linking of (null) pronouns.
Natural Language and Linguistic Theory, 25, pp.
691–734.
Galves, C. (1993). O enfraquecimento da
concordância no português brasileiro. In I.
Roberts and M. Kato (eds.), Português Brasileiro:
Uma Viagem Diacrônica. Campinas: Editora da
Unicamp, pp. 387–403.
Galves, C. (2001). Ensaios Sobre as Gramáticas do
Português. Campinas: Editora da Unicamp.
Guerreiro, P. (2004). Construções de inversão: Um
Estudo de Comportamento Linguístico Provocado
em Crianças e Adultos. Masters dissertation,
University of Lisbon.
Holmberg, A. (2005). Is there a little pro?
Evidence from Finish. Linguistic Inquiry, 36,
pp. 533–564.
Holmberg, A. (2010). Null subject parameters. In
T. Biberauer, A. Holmberg, I. Roberts, and M.
Sheehan (eds.), Parametric Variation: Null
Subjects in Minimalist Theory. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, pp. 88–124.
Holmberg, A., A. Nayudy, and M. Sheehan
(2009). Three partial null‐subject languages: a
comparison of Brazilian Portuguese, Finnish
and Marathi. Studia Linguistica, 63 (1),
pp. 59–97.
Kato, M. A. (1987). Inversão da ordem SV em
interrogativas no português: uma questão
sintática ou estilística? DELTA, 3 (2), pp. 243–252.
Martins, A. M. and J. Nunes (2005). Raising
issues in Brazilian and European Portuguese.
Journal of Portuguese Linguistics, 4, pp. 53–77.
Modesto, M. (2000). Null subjects without “rich”
agreement. In M. Kato and E. Negrão (eds.),
Brazilian Portuguese and the Null Subject
Parameter. Frankfurt: Vervuert‐Iberoamerica,
pp. 147–174.
Modesto, M. (2004). Sujeitos nulos em línguas de
tópico proeminente. Revista da Abralin, 3,
pp. 119–145.
Modesto, M. (2009). Null subjects in Brazilian
Portuguese: a critique of two possible analysis.
In M. A. Torres Morais and M. L. Andrade
(eds.), História do Português Paulista, vol, 2.
Campinas: IEL Publicações, pp. 99–123.
Modesto, M. (2010). What Brazilian Portuguese
says about control: remarks on Boeckx &
Hornstein. Syntax, 13 (1), pp. 78–96.
Moreira da Silva, S. (1983). Études sur l’asymétrie
et l’asymétrie SUJET/OBJET dans le portugais
du Brésil. Ph.D. dissertation, Université de
Paris VIII.
Munhoz, A. T. and R. Naves (2012). Construções
de tópico‐sujeito: uma proposta em termos de
estrutura argumental e de transferência de
traços de C. Signum: Estudos Linguísticos, 15,
pp. 245–265.
Nascimento, M. (1984). Sur la postposition du
sujet dans le portugais du Brésil. Ph.D.
dissertation, Université de Paris VIII.
Naves, R., E. Pilati, and H. Salles (2014).
Consequences of the split of 3rd person
morphology in the agreement system of
Brazilian Portuguese. Poster presented at the
CGG24 – Madrid, 2014.
Nunes, J. (2008). Inherent case as a licensing
condition for A‐movement: the case of hyper‐
raising constructions in Brazilian Portuguese.
Journal of Portuguese Linguistics, 7(2),
pp. 83–108.
Perlmutter, D. (1971). Deep and Surface Structure
Constraints in Syntax. New York: Holt,
Rinehart, & Winston.
Pilati, E. (2006) Aspectos sintáticos e semânticos
da ordem verbo‐sujeito no português. Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Brasília.
Pinto, M. (1997). Licensing and interpretation of
inverted subjects in Italian. Ph.D. dissertation,
Utrecht University.
Pontes, E. (1987). O tópico em português do Brasil.
Campinas: Pontes.
The Null Subject Parameter and the Structure of the Sentence in EP and BP  253
Rizzi, L. (1982). Issues in Italian Syntax. Dordrecht:
Foris.
Rizzi, L. (1986). Null objects in Italian and
the theory of pro. Linguistic Inquiry, 17 (3),
pp. 501–557.
Rizzi, L. (1997). The fine structure of the left
periphery. In L. Haegmann (ed.), Elements of
Grammar. Dordrecht: Kluwer, pp. 281–387.
Roberts, I. (2010). A deletion analysis of null
subjects. In T. Biberauer, A. Holmberg, I.
Roberts, and M. Sheehan (eds.), Parametric
Variation: Null Subjects in Minimalist Theory.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
pp. 58–87.
Roberts, I. and A. Holmberg (2010). Introduction:
parameters in minimalist theory. In T.
Biberauer, A. Holmberg, I. Roberts, and M.
Sheehan (eds.), Parametric Variation: Null
Subjects in Minimalist Theory. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, pp. 1–57.
Rodrigues, C. (2004). Impoverished morphology
and A‐movement out of case domains. Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Maryland.
Tarallo, F. and M. Kato (1989). Harmonia trans‐
sistêmica: variação intra‐ e interlinguística.
Preedição 5. Campinas: Editora da Unicamp.
Viotti, E. and E. Negrão (2000). Brazilian
Portuguese as a subject‐oriented language. In
M. Kato and E. Negrão (eds.), Brazilian
Portuguese and the Null Subject Parameter.
Frankfurt: Vervuert‐Iberoamerica,
pp. 105–125.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
This chapter discusses several aspects of the syntax of European (EP) and Brazilian (BP)
Portuguese noun phrases.1
Noun Phrases (NP) are constructions headed by a noun and,
according to the lexical nature of the noun, may contain arguments, da cidade “of the city,” as
in (1), and modifiers, as the adjective recente “recent,” in (2):
(1) o bombardeamento da cidade 2
“the bombing of the city”
(2) o recente bombardeamento da cidade
“the recent bombing of the city”
Entity/object nouns are often followed by Prepositional Phrases (PP) modifiers (3) and
­
preceded by possessives (4):
(3) a casa da Maria
the house of‐the Maria
“Maria’s house”
(4)  a minha casa
the my house
“my house”
NPs also co‐occur with functional elements, which are their extended projections. For instance,
in Portuguese and other Romance languages, NPs are usually preceded by determiners (see
(1)–(4)), as well as other elements such as quantifiers, the reason why these determiner‐preceded
NPs are usually called Determiner Phrases (DP), a term we will employ from now on.
However, under certain conditions, Portuguese may exhibit bare nouns:
(5) Vinho faz bem à saúde.
wine does good to‐the health
“Wine is good for one’s health.”
The Structure of DPs
Ana Maria Brito and Ruth E. V. Lopes
14
The Structure of DPs  255
(6)  Lulas vivem em média um ano.
squids live in average one year
“Squids usually live for a year.”
(5) and (6) illustrate the use of mass and plural bare nouns, but in BP even singular count
nouns can be bare in argument positions, as in (7):
(7)  Ontem eu comprei livro no shopping. (*EP/ok BP)
yesterday I bought book in‐the shopping.
“Yesterday I bought a book/books at the mall.”
In terms of agreement, in EP agreement marks affect all the elements in the DP (8):
(8) todos os teus amigos
all‐masc pl the‐masc pl your‐masc pl friends‐masc pl
“all your friends”
In spoken BP, on the other hand, number agreement may not be present in the nominal head
(9) and other elements in the DP:
(9) a.  todos os teu(s) amigo (*EP, ok BP)
all‐masc pl the‐masc pl your‐masc pl friend‐masc
“all your friends”
b. O teus amigo (*EP, ok BP)
the‐masc your‐masc pl friend‐masc
This chapter aims to discuss the syntax of these constructions, focusing on the specificity of
Portuguese in both variants, EP and BP. It starts examining the argument structure of nouns,
mainly those that are deverbal nominalizations (Section 2); PP modifiers and possessives
with entity/object nouns will be presented in Section 3. Section 4 examines adjectives, their
subclasses and positions. In Section 5, agreement relations and bare nouns will be analyzed
from a syntactic point of view.
2.  Deverbal nominalizations and the argument
structure of nouns
Certain nouns are derived from verbs and, in most cases, inherit a similar argument struc-
ture from their verbal counterpart. Depending on the lexical nature of the head noun, some
PPs will be arguments of the noun, while others will be modifiers.3
In (10), the PP da cidade
“of the town” is an argument of the noun, but em 2012 “in 2012” is a modifier:4
(10)  O bombardeamento da cidade em 2012 foi terrível.
“The bombing of the city in 2012 was terrible.”
Besides the equivalent argument structure, deverbal nouns generally inherit the aspectual
properties (representing states, activities, accomplishments or achievements) from the
corresponding verbs:
(11) a corrida dos atletas (activity)
the run of the athletes
“the athletes’ jogging”
256  Ana Maria Brito and Ruth E. V. Lopes
(12)  o temor de trovoadas de certas pessoas (state)
“the fear of thunder storms of certain people”
(13)  o bombardeamento da cidade pelo exército inimigo (accomplishment)
“the bombing of the city by the enemy army”
(14) a chegada dos desportistas ao estádio (achievement)
“the arrival of the sportsmen at the stadium”
As the examples show, nominal arguments are never DPs in Portuguese, because nouns
are not direct case assigners and therefore prepositions must be introduced as case assigners:
de “of,” a “to,” por “by,” para “for,” “to,” and others.
Deverbal nominalizations, especially those that are derived from accomplishment verbs,
are ambiguous between, at least, an event and a result reading:
(15) A tradução do livro (por/por parte de Graça Moura) levou dois anos. (event)
“The translation of the book (by Graça Moura) took two years.”
(16) A tradução (do livro) (do Graça Moura) foi publicada recentemente. (result)
“Graça Moura’s translation (of the book) has been published recently.”
(15) is an example of a “passive nominalization” (Picallo 1991), characterized by the following
properties: (1) having an event reading; (2) the PP do livro “of the book” being interpreted as
the theme; and (3) the agent, if present, being introduced by the preposition por “by” or por
parte de (lit. “on the part of”). (16), on the other hand, presents a result reading, and the theme
does not need to be present.
Noticing these characteristics, Grimshaw (1990: 49–54) related aspectual properties to the
argument structure of a predicate: whereas process/event nouns take internal arguments (as
in (15)), result nouns are like object/entity nouns and do not select arguments, as in (16). And
since process/event nouns refer to situations, they are typically singular and determined by the
definite article.
However, work on nominalizations in several languages has shown that Grimshaw’s
­
proposal may be too strong (Picallo 1991, Brito and Oliveira 1997, Sleeman and Brito 2010),
leading to different generalizations:
(i)	 Process/event nominals not always take internal arguments (17) and result nominals
can optionally select one (18):
(17) A discussão durou duas horas.
“The discussion lasted two hours.”
(18) A discussão dos dados veio publicada na revista.
“The discussion of the data was published in the journal.”
(ii)	 Event nouns can pluralize in certain circumstances:
(19) Os representantes da ONU assistiram a vários ataques de cidades.
“The UN representatives watched several attacks on the towns.”
(iii)	 Under certain conditions, the noun may be preceded by an indefinite (20) or a demonstrative
determiner (21):
(20)  Durante um ataque à cidade, muitas pessoas foram feridas.
“During an attack to the city, many people were injured.”
The Structure of DPs  257
(21) Durante aquele ataque à cidade, muitas pessoas foram feridas.
“During that attack to the city, many people were injured.”
Until now we have seen PPs as complements or modifiers of deverbal nouns. But relational
adjectives can also belong to the argument structure of these nouns (Bosque and Picallo
1996). Working on Spanish, these two authors showed that relational adjectives are of two
types: thematic adjectives, which correspond to true arguments of the nouns, as in (22), and
classifying adjectives, which are not true arguments in a strict sense, because they represent
some type of external property of the entity denoted by the noun and are closer to adjuncts/
modifiers, as in (23):
(22) pesca bacolhoeira
fishing codfish‐adj
“codfish fishing”
(23) parque jurássico
“Jurassic Park”
The interpretation of relational adjectives depends on the lexical nature of the adjective,
the relation with the noun, and the coexistence of other relational adjectives. An isolated
thematic adjective (expressing, for instance, nationality) with a nominal derived from an
accomplishment verb, generally a transitive verb, is preferentially interpreted as the
agent (24):
(24) O bombardeamento sírio da cidade durou 24 horas.
“The Syrian bombing of the city lasted 24 hours.”
A relational adjective may also express a theme argument, as in (25a, c), combined or not
with another relational adjective acting as the agent (25b, c) (Miguel 2004):
(25)  a.  a pesca bacalhoeira
“the codfish fishing”
b. a pesca portuguesa
“the Portuguese fishing”
c. a pesca bacalhoeira portuguesa
“the Portuguese codfish fishing”
If thematic adjectives basically occupy argument positions (internal, if they are themes, and
external, if they are agents) how to explain the systematic postnominal position of these
adjectives in Romance languages? Suppose that the (simplified) underlying structures of
(25a, b, c) are the ones described in (26):
(26) a. [DP
a [….. [NP
[Nʹ
[N
pesca [bacalhoeira ]]]]]]
b. [DP
a [….. [NP
portuguesa [Nʹ
[N
pesca ]]]]]
c. [DP
a [….. [NP
portuguesa [Nʹ
[N
pesca [bacalhoeira ]]]]]]
In (25a) the thematic adjective stays in situ. In (25b) the final order N + relational ADJ may
be explained by an N movement to a nominal functional category, XP, to be suggested below
(Crisma 1993, Cinque 1994, Brito 1996).
258  Ana Maria Brito and Ruth E. V. Lopes
What about (25c), where the sequence pesca bacolhoeira precedes the nationality adjective?
How to explain that the head noun and its theme precede the nationality adjective that projects
in spec of NP? One may consider that pesca bacalhoeira as a constituent, Nʹ, forms a compact
unity and raises as a whole, deriving the appropriate linear word order observed in (25c). The
movement of Nʹ is justified by the fact that one cannot introduce any constituent between
the N and the relational adjective.5
Besides, as we will see in Section 4, the co‐occurrence
of relational adjectives with qualifying and evaluative adjectives confirms the view that not
only N but also a phrasal constituent, such as Nʹ, moves in Romance languages.
The position of relational adjectives may therefore justify an analysis where the DP
­
contains another functional element in between D and N. But what is the nature of this
intermediate functional category?
Nouns may refer to one or more than one entity, therefore they have to be interpreted in
terms of number; however, number is not an intrinsic part of a noun. Thus, assuming a
number projection (NumP) as a functional category within the nominal domain seems to
follow naturally, as proposed by Ritter (1991) for Hebrew, closely followed by Picallo (1991)
and Bernstein (1993) for Romance languages.6
Sometimes the argument positions of event nominals may also be occupied by pos-
sessives, as internal or external arguments seen in (27) and (28):
(27)  A cidade era linda; o seu bombardeamento foi um desastre!
“The city was beautiful; its bombing was a disaster.”
(28) Quanto ao exército, o seu bombardeamento da cidade foi indesculpável.
“As for the army, its bombing of the city was unforgivable.”
In (27), the possessive seu corresponds to the internal argument; in (28) seu corresponds to
the external argument. In order to account for the possessive + N linear order in (27) it is
assumed that the possessive has to move to a higher position. We will see in the next section
that the syntax of DPs containing entity/object nouns and possessive determiners will help
to determine their position.
3.  Entity/object nouns, PP modifiers and possessive
constructions
PPs that follow count nouns denoting entities are modifiers and occupy adjunct positions
(Miguel 2004). They may be introduced by the preposition de “of” or other prepositions such as
para “to”/“for,” com “with,” a “to”/“for,” entre “between”/“among,” sem “without,” sobre
“about”/“on,” sob “under,” em “in”/“on”:
(29) a. a casa da Maria
the house of‐the Maria
“Maria’s house”
b. o braço da Maria
the arm of‐the Maria
“Maria’s arm”
(30) a.  um tecido para casaco
“a fabric for coats”
b. uma criança com tranças
“a girl with braids”
The Structure of DPs  259
As a form of expressing possession, entity/object nouns may be modified by possessive
determiners:7
(31) a/esta sua casa
the/this his/her house
“his/her house”
Portuguese has two positions for these constituents: the prenominal one, mainly
­
preceded by definite articles and demonstratives (31), and a postnominal position,
usually with indefinites, interrogatives, and numerals (32) (Miguel 2004, Castro 2006,
Brito 2007):8
(32)  a.  uma casa sua
a house your
“a house of yours”
b. três casas suas
three houses your
“three houses of yours”
c. algumas casas suas
some houses his/her/them
“some houses of him/hers/them”
d. Quantas casas suas ele conhece?
how‐many houses his/her/their he knows
“How many houses of him/hers/them does he know?”
The examples in (31) and (32) seem to justify two different positions for the possessives,
constrained by definiteness. However, some questions remain: are possessives heads or
phrasal? Is their nature the same in EP and BP? And what are their positions?
BP differs from EP in that respect, due to the fact that isolated possessives, not preceded
by definite articles, are the most common option:
(33) Nosso final de semana foi maravilhoso.
Our end of week was amazing.
“Our weekend was amazing.”
(34) Dependemos dos automóveis para realizar nossas atividades cotidianas.
Depend‐1pl of‐the automobiles to do our activities daily
“We depend on our cars to run our daily errands.”
Giorgi and Longobardi (1991) proposed that in certain Romance languages, in particular
Italian, possessives are adjectives, projected between D and N, differently from other
­
languages where (prenominal) possessives are determiners (French, English, Spanish); but
they never discuss the nature of the possessive form itself. Cardinaletti’s (1998) work on
Italian brought a new light on this matter. Despite the similar forms (mia casa/una casa mia),
Cardinaletti shows that pre‐ and postnominal possessives behave differently in terms of focal-
ization, coordination, modification by some adverbs, and human/non‐human ­
interpretation,
taking her to propose a distinction between weak possessives (prenominal forms) and strong
ones (postnominal forms). Castro and Costa (2003) adopted this distinction for Portuguese,
proposing that the weak forms are heads while the strong ones display a phrasal nature.
Let us concentrate first on prenominal possessives in order to try to understand not only
their category status but also their exact position in the DP.
260  Ana Maria Brito and Ruth E. V. Lopes
In definite contexts, coordination of prenominal possessives is possible if the second
member of the coordination is focalized (Castro and Costa 2003):
(35)  ? O meu e TEU artigo está aqui.
the my and YOUR paper is here
“My paper and YOUR paper is here.” (meaning there is one single paper)
Prenominal possessives may also be focalized in definite contexts:
(36)  a. O meu livro está esgotado.
the my book is out of print
“My book is out of print.”
b. O MEU livro está esgotado
the MY book is out of print
“My book is out of print.”
c. O MEU livro é que está esgotado.
the MY book is that is out of print
“It is my book that is out of print.”
This may show that prenominal possessives in Portuguese are not heads but some type of
phrasal constituent. As for their position, they occupy a functional category between D and
NumP. We will assume that Romance languages and Portuguese in particular have an AgrP
in DP, where Agr is a high position for an N having person features at least; therefore the
Spec of AgrP hosts prenominal possessives.9
Thus, o meu livro has the structure in (37):
(37) [DP
o [AgrP
meu [Agr
livroi
[NUMP
ti
[NP
[Nʹ
[N
ti
]]]]]]
Let us consider now possessives in indefinite contexts. We have already shown that in
Portuguese it is usually the case that a postnominal possessive will be used when an
indefinite article/numeral/interrogative is present; however, some speakers seem to accept
prenominal possessives in such contexts as well, as in (38):
(38) Uma minha amiga contou‐me que vai haver mais um casamento…
a my friend told me that there will be another marriage
“A friend of mine told me that there will be another marriage…”
These data favor the idea that Portuguese has at least two grammars for possessives,
one more conservative, that accepts prenominal possessives with indefinites, and
another one, more innovative, that only accepts prenominal possessives with definite
determiners.
Focus on the prenominal possessive is an option in the grammar that accepts prenominal
possessives with indefinites:
(39)  Uns MEUS amigos, não TEUS, vieram visitar‐me.
some MY friends, not YOUR, came to visit me
“My friends came to visit me, not yours.”
The Structure of DPs  261
In such a grammar, prenominal possessives are certainly not heads and may be focalized for
being XPs, placed in Spec of AgrP.
In standard BP, possessives can be used without a determiner (see 33) and, thus, posses-
sives could be taken to occupy a D position; but their co‐occurance with a definite deter-
miner is also possible, suggesting that their position may be similar to the one proposed for
pre‐nominal possessives in EP, albeit with a null determiner.
Let us now briefly discuss the position of postnominal possessives, as in (40):
(40) um livro meu
a book my
“a book of mine”
Their phrasal nature is uncontroversial (Castro and Costa 2003, Miguel 2004, Brito 2007).
We will follow here a suggestion from Parodi (1994), for Spanish, according to whom the
so‐called “postnominal possessive” is in fact projected in an intermediate position, called
PossP, above NumP but below AgrP, and the final linear order is derived from N moving to
Spec of AgrP:10, 11
(41) [DP
um [AgrP
livroi
[ PossP
meu [NUMP
ti
[NP
[Nʹ
[N
ti
]]]]]]]
Summing up, DPs have a lexical layer, formed by the N head and its argument structure,
when it exists. Besides PPs, the argument structure of certain nouns may be expressed by
relational adjectives and even by possessives. With the majority of entity/object nouns, PPs
are modifiers, with many different interpretations. The syntax of pre‐nominal possessives
and of relational adjectives, in particular the agentive ones, justified the proposal of two
functional categories, AgrP and NumP. Moreover, in order to justify the occurrence of post-
nominal possessives it was necessary to propose another functional category, above NumP
but lower than AgrP. As we will see in Section 5, the functional layers of the DP in Portuguese
are still a matter of controversy, mainly due to BP data.
4.  Adjectives: classes and positions
Modification in nominal expressions may also be made through adjectives, as seen in the
previous sections. Their position and nature depends on the different semantic classes to
which they belong.
Qualifying adjectives (sometimes called “descriptive adjectives”) express simple prop-
erties of entities, related to dimension, form, color, psychological or physical states (pequeno
“small/short,” alto “tall/high,” branco “white,” quente “hot,” etc.); some authors distinguish
them from evaluative adjectives (carro fantástico lit: car great, “great car”; menina linda lit: girl
pretty, “pretty girl”) because the latter denote subjective properties of entities (Brito and
Raposo 2013: 1085–86).
Qualifying adjectives are gradable and they generally occupy the postnominal position:
(42) as torres altas de Lisboa/* as altas torres de Lisboa
the tower high of Lisbon/the high towers of Lisbon
“the high towers of Lisbon”
As for evaluative adjectives, they may occupy pre‐ and postnominal positions; when affecting
plural nouns and in postnominal position they may be ambiguous between a restrictive and
262  Ana Maria Brito and Ruth E. V. Lopes
a non‐restrictive interpretation (see the readings (i) and (ii) in (43a)), while in prenominal
position they are interpreted as non‐restrictive (cf. (43b)):
(43)  a.  os carros fantásticos do Pedro
the cars great of Pedro
“Pedro’s great cars”
(i)  some of Pedro’s cars are great
(ii)  all Pedro’s cars are great
b. os fantásticos carros do Pedro
the great cars of Pedro
“Pedro’s great cars”
When a qualifying adjective co‐occurs with an evaluative one in postnominal position, the
evaluative adjective usually occurs after the qualifying one:
(44) a. uma casa baixa magnífica
a house small nice
“a nice small house”
b. um vestido comprido lindo
a dress long gorgeous
“a gorgeous long dress”
Because some qualifying adjectives may occupy both positions in the DP, they are associated
with different interpretations. The postnominal position is related to their objective or deno-
tative meaning (uma mulher pobre lit. a woman poor “a poor woman” = without resources);
the prenominal position is related to a subjective, connotative or metaphorical meaning (uma
pobre mulher lit. “a poor woman” = unlucky).
Other adjectives with similar behavior are: velho “old” (um amigo velho lit. a friend old = “a
friend of a certain age”; um velho amigo “an old friend”); rico “rich” (uma pessoa rica lit. a
person rich = “a rich person”; uma rica pessoa lit. a rich person = “a kind person”); grande
“big” (um homem grande lit. a man big = “a tall or bulky person”; um grande homem lit. a big
man = “a great person”).
Being gradable, both qualifying and evaluative adjectives are phrasal, allowing degree
adverbs to project (see (45a, b); the so called “lexical superlatives” like fantástico, magnífico,
maravilhoso, and so forth (Brito and Raposo 2013: 1092) co‐occur with difficulty with adverb
modification in EP (45c), although they are accepted in BP (45d):
(45) a. uma torre  muito alta
a tower   very high
“a very high tower”
b. uma menina  muito linda
a  child  very pretty
“a very pretty child”
c. ? um carro  muito fantástico
a  car very fantastic
“a very fantastic car”
d. um  vestido  muito/super maravilhoso
a   dress   very/super gorgeous
“a really gorgeous dress”
The Structure of DPs  263
Adifferent situation occurs with other classes of adjectives. Relational adjectives are non‐gradable
and are probably not phrasal. We have already seen that in Romance languages they always
occupy the postnominal position. As some qualifying adjectives may occupy the two positions
in the DP, when combined with a relational adjective the following orders may obtain: NADJ
ADJ (N + relational ADJ + qualifying ADJ) or ADJ N ADJ (qualifying ADJ + N + relational
ADJ), as seen in the following examples:
(46) a. uma produção pesqueira  intensa/uma intensa produção pesqueira
a production fishing    intense/an intense production fishing
“an intense fishing production”
b. uma ordem  religiosa extinta/uma extinta  ordem religiosa
an order    religious extinct/an extinct  order religious
“an extinct religious order”
There are also intensional adjectives (principal “main,” mero “mere,” pleno “absolute/full/
high,” certo “certain,” simples “simple”) and negative and conjectural adjectives (falso “false/
untrue,” presumível “probable/presumed,” alegado “alleged”) (Demonte (1999: 139–41) which
are non‐gradable, being most probably heads and always occupying a prenominal position:
(47) a. um mero incidente/* um incidente mero
a mere incident/an incident mere
“a mere incident”
b. o presumível ladrão/* o ladrão presumível
the presumed thief/the thief presumed
“the presumed thief”
Other terms behave differently in pre and postnominal position: outros “other,” diversos
­“several,” certos “certain,” raros “rare,” próprio “real/appropriate,” qualquer “any,” único “only/
unique.” In prenominal position they are quantifiers, determiner‐like, and it will be assumed
here, for simplicity’s sake, that they are projected as specifiers of NumP (48), whereas in
postnominal position they are qualifying gradable adjectives (49):
(48) a. Eu encontrei diversos livros.
“I found several books.”
b. Só raras pessoas fazem isso.
“Only a few people do that.”
(49) a. Eu encontrei livros (muito) diversos.
I found books (very) different
“I found quite different books.”
b. Só pessoas (muito) raras fazem isso.
only people (very) rare do that
“Only extraordinary people do that.”
Due to the existence of such different classes of adjectives, it is possible to have several of
them in the DP, as we have already seen above and as (50) illustrates:
(50) uma bela pequena redonda maçã vermelha portuguesa
a nice small round apple red Portuguese
“a nice round small Portuguese red apple”
264  Ana Maria Brito and Ruth E. V. Lopes
Their order is not accidental and follows a hierarchy (Cinque 1994):
(51)  quality > size > shape > color > origin/nationality
Deverbal nouns, as event or result nouns, examined in Section  2, are often modified by
modal adjectives (possível “possible,” provável “probable”) and temporal–aspectual adjec-
tives (recente “recent,” súbito “sudden”), which may occupy pre‐ and postnominal positions
in the DP:
(52)  a.  uma possível descoberta/uma descoberta possível
a possible discovery/a discovery possible
“a possible discovery”
b. o recente bombardeamento/o bombardeamento recente
the recent bombing/the bombing recent
“the recent bombing”
Different classes of adjectives can also be combined (53):
(53) vários devastadores recentes ataques inimigos
several devastating recent attacks enemy
“several recent devastating enemy attacks”
For event nouns the order of adjectives is the following (Cinque 1994):
(54) subject oriented > time > manner > agentive/theme
After looking at these different possibilities of adjective placement inside a DP, many
questions remain. Apart from thematic adjectives, considered here as arguments, the
other classes were treated as modifiers, adjuncts to the DP, some of them projected in
high, some in low positions. But if there are hierarchies among them, their combination
constraints are to be explained. Cinque (1994) proposed that there are several functional
categories in the DP, either above or below AgrP and NumP, housing specific adjectives in
their spec positions. N movement would be the operation that results in the correct linear
order.
Adjectives are also not homogeneous with respect to their head or phrasal nature: grad-
able adjectives are heads, modified by degree expressions; relational adjectives, both clas-
sificatory and thematic, seem to be maximal projections and do not admit degree
expressions at their left. Some adjectives have different readings in pre‐ or postnominal
position and there are restrictions on their combinations. Such scenario suggests that there
is not a unified analysis for adjectives, even if only qualifying and evaluative adjectives are
considered.
In order to capture this heterogeneity, and reviewing his old analysis, Cinque (2010)
suggests that adjectives are projected in spec of functional categories but have a different
origin: Some are direct modifiers (relational and qualifying) and are projected as spec of
functional categories, according to an hierarchy; others, those that are always postnomi-
nal in Romance and have a predicative nature, are the result of the reduction of a relative
clause and are projected in a high position; (55) represents the general structure proposed
by the author:
(55) [DP
… [FPi
reduced relative F0
… [ FPj
ADJP (mod.) F0
[FPk
ADJP (mod.) F0
[NP
]]]]]
The Structure of DPs  265
A combination of an evaluative adjective with a relational one, as in (56), illustrates the
proposal:
(56)  a pesca bacalhoeira corajosa
the fishing cod‐adj courageous
“the courageous cod‐fishing”
In (56), the adjective corajosa is ambiguous between a restrictive and a non‐restrictive
­
interpretation. In the non‐restrictive reading it is a modifier and is projected in a low‐spec
position of a functional category above NP; the movement of the phrasal constituent pesca
bacolheira would originate in a structure like (57a); in the restrictive reading (one would be
talking about the cod fishing that was courageous and only about that one), the adjective has
a reduced relative origin, projected in a high position (57b):
(57) a.  [DP
a [….. [ pesca bacalhoeira ]l
[FPj
corajosa tl
]]]]
b. [DP
a [….. [ pesca bacalhoeira ]l
[FPi (reduced relative)
corajosa F0
tl
]]]]
So far, we have suggested that number morphology may be one of the triggers for N movement
in Portuguese. As we will see below, number morphology is, under certain ­
conditions,
­
variable in BP; nevertheless, the position of adnominal adjectives is the same in both vari-
eties. Thus the relationship between NumP and word order inside the DP may be subtler
than expected.
5.  DP‐internal agreement and bare nouns
In EP, every element inside the DP which is able to inflect for gender and/or number will be
morphologically marked as so. That applies to the nouns, but also to determiners, demon-
stratives, quantifiers, possessives and adjectives:
(58) todos os/esses teus bons amigos
all‐masc‐pl det/dem‐masc‐pl poss‐2p‐masc‐pl good‐masc‐pl friend‐masc‐pl
“all your good friends”
Menuzzi (1994) refers to this kind of system as “uniform,” as opposed to “non‐uniform”
­
systems in which the agreeing heads do not inflect for some feature uniformly.
Number agreement is a non‐uniform system in spoken BP. Scherre (1988) has shown
that plural marking varies in spoken BP and that the plural drop is dependent on social
factors, as well as structural properties of the nouns and the DP.12
The author shows that
years of schooling will determine how much of the plural markers will be dropped.
Highly educated speakers will drop the agreement markers at very low rates—around 18
percent—when compared to less educated groups. She also shows that the overt mor-
phological marking depends on the position of a particular element inside the DP, that
is, elements to the left of the nominal head tend to bear the plural markers while the ones
to the right of the nominal head tend to favor no markers. Thus, the following patterns
can be found:
(59) todos os teus amigo
all‐masc‐pl the‐masc‐pl your‐masc‐pl friend‐masc
“all your friends”
266  Ana Maria Brito and Ruth E. V. Lopes
(60) as minha(s) amiga
the‐fem‐pl my‐fem‐(pl) friend‐fem
“my (girl) friends”
(61) as amiga
the‐fem‐pl friend‐fem
“the (girl) friends”
Costa and Figueiredo Silva (2006) disagree with the pattern presented in (60) when the
possessive is uninflected, claiming that if only one of the elements preceding the noun is to
be inflected, then it is the possessive and not the determiner that will bear the plural marker.13
However, Simioni (2011) shows that this generalization may be strong, at least in certain
­
contexts. According to the author, if such an agreement pattern is accepted by some speakers
it should be a phonological phenomenon, since tests with ellipsis do not yield the predicted
results (see Simioni 2011: 21, example (i), fn 10):
(62) a. Eu vi os   meus    
livro    e   os      teus.
I saw the‐masc‐pl my‐masc‐pl book‐masc and the‐masc‐pl your‐masc‐pl
“I saw my books and yours.”
b. Eu vi os     
meu livro      e   os      teu.
I saw the‐masc‐pl my‐masc book‐masc and the‐masc‐pl your‐masc
“I saw my books and yours.”
c. *Eu vi o  meus    livro     e        teus.
I saw the‐masc my‐masc‐pl book‐masc and the‐masc your‐masc‐pl
Nevertheless, one has to bear in mind that the results in (62) could be a by‐product of the
nature of the possessive or, else, further evidence for the existence of different grammars in
the language.
As pointed out at the previous section, plural marking will be sensitive to adjectival posi-
tions with respect to the noun and whether or not it is inflected, as discussed by Menuzzi
(1994: 130):
(63) a. (os) novos aluno
(the‐masc‐pl) new‐masc‐pl  pupil‐masc
the new pupils
b. *os novo aluno
the‐masc‐pl new‐masc pupil‐masc
(64) a. os aluno novo
the‐masc‐pl pupil‐masc young‐masc
“the young pupils”
b. *os aluno novos
the‐masc‐pl pupil‐masc young‐masc‐pl
c. *alunos novo
pupil‐masc‐pl young‐masc
Scherre and Naro (1991: 30) state that in spoken Brazilian Portuguese the “presence of
­
preceding markers led preferentially to more markers, and absence of preceding markers
similarly led to absence of markers.”
The Structure of DPs  267
There are a few generalizations that can be drawn here. If number is overtly specified
only on the determiner, the DP will be grammatical; on the other hand, if number is only
specified on a noun and its eventual modifiers, the DP will be ungrammatical if an overt
determiner is present. Those facts have led some researchers (see Menuzzi 1994; Cyrino
and Espinal 2015; a.o.) to propose that number is specified in D in spoken BP, under
certain conditions. NumP is not necessarily assumed to be an independent head in the
grammar then.14
A related matter has to do with bare nouns in natural languages. There are different
forms to express generic and existential meanings in a language, Portuguese not being
different. It could be done with the use of a definite or indefinite determiner, for
instance:
(65)  a.  A lula vive em média um ano.
the squid lives in average one year.
“The squid usually lives for a year.”
b. Uma lula vive em média um ano.
a squid lives in average one year.
“A squid usually lives for a year.”
But in some languages they can also be conveyed through bare nominals. Note the translation
to English in (66) as well:
(66) Lulas vivem em média um ano.
squids live in average one year
“Squids usually live for a year.”
Here we will call “bare nouns” (BNs) nominal elements that are not preceded by phonolog-
ical material. It is generally assumed that BNs tend to be restricted to plural (66) and mass
(67) nouns in argument position, unless they are proper names (see Longobardi 1994; among
so many others):
(67) Vinho faz bem à saúde.
wine does good to‐the health
“Wine is good for one’s health.”
In fact this restriction not only applies differently even to close languages but BNs will or
will not be licensed in a specific syntactic position in a language depending on their
interpretation.
According to Müller and Oliveira (2004), in EP bare plural nouns are not licensed in sub-
ject position unless they are modified (see (68) and (69)). However, even the modified ones
are not allowed with kind predicates as in (70):15
(68)  a. ?/* Professores trabalham muito.
“Teachers work a lot.”
b. *Elefantes são inteligentes.
“Elephants are intelligent”
(69)  a.  Professores de Coimbra trabalham muito.
“Teachers from Coimbra work a lot.”
268  Ana Maria Brito and Ruth E. V. Lopes
b. Elefantes de grandes dimensões são inteligentes.
elephants of big dimensions are intelligent
“Huge elephants are intelligent.”
(70) a. *Elefantes estão extintos.
“Elephants are extinct.”
b. * Elefantes de grandes dimensões estão extintos.
elephants of big dimensions are extinct.
“Huge elephants are extinct.”
They tend to occur more freely in object position, except with a kind reading, as in (72):
(71)  a.  A Maria compra livros todos os dias.
the Maria buys books every the day
“Maria buys books every day.”
b. A Maria comprou livros ontem.
the Maria bought books yesterday.
“Maria bought books yesterday.”
c. A Maria lê livros.
the Maria reads books.
“Maria reads books.”
d. A Maria adora livros.
the Maria loves books.
“Maria loves books.”
(72) * Graham Bell inventou telefone.
Graham Bell invented telephone
“Graham Bell invented the telephone.”
EP, however, would never license a singular count noun in a bare form in argument position.
As a matter of fact, it is usually the case that only languages that lack plural morphology and
a determiner system should license BNs more freely as arguments (see Longobardi 1994,
a.o.). In this respect, BP is an interesting language to be examined, since, despite having
plural morphology and definite and indefinite determiners which inflect for gender and
number, as previously discussed, it allows bare singular count nouns in argument positions,
bearing both generic (73) and existential (74) readings depending on the predicate they are
associated with:
(73) a. Camarão é crustáceo. 
shrimp is crustacean
“Shrimps are crustaceans.”
b. Elefante come amendoim.
elephant eats peanut.
“Elephants eat peanuts.”
c. Professor trabalha muito.
teacher works a lot
“Teachers work a lot”
d. Criança gosta de palhaço.
child likes of clown
“Children love clowns.”
The Structure of DPs  269
(74) a. Tem carro aí.
has car there
“There is/are a car/cars over there.”
b. Ontem eu comprei livro no shopping.
yesterday I bought book at the mall
“Yesterday I bought books at the mall.”
lit. “Yesterday I bought one book or more than one book
at the mall.”
c. *Amigo/*amigos/*amigos do Rio de Janeiro foram embora ontem.
“Friend/friends/friends from Rio de Janeiro left
yesterday.”
The examples in (73) and (74) show that generic singular count BNs are licensed both in
­­
pre‐ and postverbal positions, while the existential ones are only licensed in postverbal
positions.
Given the number agreement patterns discussed previously for BP, it comes to mind that
the singular count BNs are a consequence of plural marking. If plural may be marked only
in the determiner, when it is dropped all that is left is the unmarked head noun, especially
considering that, although plural BNs are used, the singular form is always the preferred one
(see Lopes, 2007). Nevertheless, Schmitt and Munn (2002, a.o.) have convincingly shown that
not to be the case.
According to Scherre (1988) educated speakers will never drop the plural marking in
words in which there is a vowel alternation besides the plural morphology (such as in “ovo”
[ovu]/“ovos” [ɔvus]—egg/eggs). However, Schmitt and Munn (2002: 190) show that
singular BNs are possible in those cases:
(75)  Ele encontrou ovo de tartaruga naquela praia.
He found egg of turtle in‐that beach.
“He found turtle eggs in that beach.”
Besides that, the authors (2002: 187, 189) also show that plural and singular BNs behave
­
differently with respect to number interpretation:
(76)  Ele comprou computadores/computador.
“He bought computers/{a computer/computers}.”
(77) Criança briga uma com a outra.
Child fights one with the other
“Children fight with each other.”
In (76), the plural BN can only be interpreted as such, while the singular form is ambiguous
between a singular and a plural interpretation. In (77) a reciprocal (uma com a outra) can be
bound by the subject (criança), clearly showing that the latter cannot be interpreted as
singular. These facts have led the authors, among others, to assume that in such cases there
is no independent NumP in the nominal domain (but see Cyrino and Espinal, 2015, for a dif-
ferent analysis).
The next question, then, is to ask whether there is a DP layer or not over the BNs; in other
words, whether these nominals are DPs or NPs. As discussed before, it is widely accepted
that only DPs can function as arguments. On the other hand, we have seen that BNs in BP
occur quite freely in argument positions.
270  Ana Maria Brito and Ruth E. V. Lopes
Syntactic evidence that singular BNs are DPs and not NPs comes from tests with coordinated
structures, among others. Let us take again examples from Schmitt and Munn (2002: 193):
(78)  a.  Ele encontrou o amigo e parente no aeroporto.
He met the friend and relative at‐the airport.
b. Ele encontrou os amigos e parentes no aeroporto.
He met the friends and relatives at‐the airport.
c. Ele encontrou amigo e parente no aeroporto.
He met friend and relative at‐the airport
“He met friends and relatives at the airport.”
In (78a) the two conjoined NPs, being conjoined under a single determiner, mean that some-
body met a single individual who happens to be a friend and a relative. This is not the case
in (78b), where the plural DP is ambiguous, meaning either that the persons met are both
friends and relatives or that somebody met both friends and relatives, as distinct individuals
or set of individuals, at the airport.
As the authors have pointed out, if the singular BNs were to behave as NPs, (78c) should
only pattern with (78a), but it is not the case. It patterns with (78b) and is ambiguous ­between
the conjoined NP reading and the separate individuals one.16
As a last point, claiming that there is a DP layer over the BNs can mean quite different
approaches. For some, that means that D will accommodate a phonologically null expletive
determiner. The reasoning comes from the fact that a definite determiner can vary with a BN
in true kind predications and with proper names in BP (see Longobardi 1994; and Castro
2006; Lopes 2007, for BP):
(79)  a. A rosa é uma flor.
the rose is a flower
“Roses are flowers.”
b. Rosa é flor.
rose is flower.
“Roses are flowers.”
(80) a. (A) Maria foi para casa.
the_fem Maria went  o+the‐fem house
“Maria went home.”
For others, it means that D will host a bundle of features responsible for the nominal inter-
pretation. There is still another analysis according to which N moves to D if D is empty and
bears certain features. Arguing for one of them is beyond the scope of this chapter.
To conclude, we will pinpoint the common properties found in both variants, as well as
the differences we have mentioned along the chapter, starting with the ones that are shared
between EP and BP:
•	 Portuguese contains articles and a varied system of determiners and quantifiers; in
certain circumstances bare nouns which are plural or mass can also be found.
•	 Portuguese has prenominal and postnominal possessives.
•	 Besides certain uses of possessives and relational adjectives, arguments in nominal
expressions are mainly expressed by PPs, due to case reasons.
•	 Relational adjectives exclusively occupy the postnominal position, which justifies the
proposal of N movement (and even Nʹ movement) to an intermediate functional
category.
The Structure of DPs  271
•	 Evaluative and qualifying adjectives may, under certain circumstances, occupy prenominal
and postnominal positions.
•	 DPs are marked by number morphology.
Although sharing the general properties above, there are some differences between EP and
BP that were explored:
•	 While in EP prenominal possessives are generally used with definite articles, BP often
allows isolated possessives, without any definite article.
•	 Number agreement is a non‐uniform system in spoken BP, and elements to the left of the
nominal head tend to bear the plural markers while the ones to the right of the nominal
head tend to favor no markers.
•	 While EP freely accepts plural bare nouns in object position and, with some restrictions,
in subject positions, and does not allow bare singular count nouns, BP allows bare
singular count nouns in argument positions, bearing both generic and existential read-
ings, depending on the predicate they are associated with.
Some of the analysis assumed here, such as the presence or not of NumP in BP, or the specific
functional elements inside the DP in both variants, as well as the kind of movement they
allow, are still open for discussion and further developments in the formal literature.
Notes
1	 We will mention the two variants when necessary; when the phenomena discussed are common to
both of them we will simply refer to Portuguese.
2	 Glosses will be provided when necessary; otherwise only the translation of the examples will be
provided.
3	 The notion “modifier” is complex and sometimes misleading. It will be used here to refer to ­
non‐
arguments of the noun, although not to a unique position.
4	 Arguments can be distinguished from modifiers in the DP in the following manners: (1) in the
presence of both, the argument, not the modifier, follows the noun: *?? o bombardeamento em 2012 da
cidade “the bombing in 2012 of the city”; (2) arguments and modifiers cannot be coordinated:
* o bombardeamento da cidade e em 2012 “the bombing of the city and in 2012”; (3) modifiers can
appear in sequence: o bombardeamento da cidade em 2012 que provocou muitos estragos “the bombing of
the city in 2012 that caused many damages (much damage).”
5	 This compact unit Nʹ is a constituent, not a compound, as Bosque and Picallo (1996) show for
Spanish, because gender and number may be present in the two forms (see in EP os amigos americanos
(the‐masc.pl. friend‐masc.pl. American‐masc.pl.) and because the head N may be empty, differently
from what occurs in a compound: os americanos (the‐masc.pl. American‐masc.pl.).
6	 But see Section 5 on BP.
7	 Kinship nouns are frequently used without possessives in Portuguese, especially in EP, referring to a
3rd person but also to the speaker or to the addressee: (i) Vi o pai/a mãe/a prima, saw the father/the
mother/the cousin “I saw my/your/his/her father/mother/cousin.” In anaphoric ­
contexts the null
possessive is also a possibility: (ii) A criança pegou a mochila, the child took the backpack, “the child
took/his/her backpack.” There are some differences between EP and BP that we will not pursue here.
8	In a very formal register Portuguese still preserves the postnominal (focalized) possessive with the
definite article, as in the Lord’s prayer: (1) “O pão nosso de cada dia nos dai hoje (…)” (the bread our of
every day give us today, “give us this day our daily bread”). In medieval texts examples like (2) can
also be found: (2) a calça sua (apud Mattos e Silva 1989: 174) the trousers his, “your trousers.”
9	 Since Abney (1987) and Szabolcsi (1987), it is relatively consensual that DPs have an Agr element.
The evidence comes from languages like Hungarian, Turkish, and Yupik (an Eskimo language),
272  Ana Maria Brito and Ruth E. V. Lopes
at least, where agreement morphology in nominal expressions, in particular with possessives, is
­
similar to the one which occurs in the sentential level. In Portuguese, the morphology of
agreement in nominal expressions and sentences is different because in the former it is number
(and also gender) that is shared by the elements in the DP and in the latter it is person and
number that are shared by the DP subject and the V. Therefore, the presence of Agr in DP is not
so evident as in the aforementioned languages. That is the reason why some authors prefer to
assume a PossP and not an AgrP for possessives. Nevertheless, we will maintain here the classical
analysis. A different approach is proposed by Castro (2006). Based on Longobardi’s (1994) analysis,
Castro assumes that in the presence of a prenominal possessive, only possible with the definite
article, the definite article is an expletive. This idea is reinforced by BP data, where the
definite article is often absent (meu casaco está aqui, “my coat is here”); therefore, Castro proposes
that the definite article and the prenominal possessive occupy the same D head. In EP, however,
this view is inadequate, due to the possible occurrence of some weak adverbs between the
definite article and the noun: o ainda meu marido (the still my husband). See also Section 5 on BP.
10	 The possibility of two positions for possessives in Portuguese is reinforced by the existence of exam-
ples with two possessives like a minha fotografia tua (lit. the my photo yours), where minha may be
interpreted as agent/possessor and tua as theme; therefore two PossP could be proposed (see, among
others, Coene and d’Hulst (2003: 9). See also the previous note for a terminological discussion.
11	 The situation is more complex than described in the text, because some quantifiers like outros
“other,” projected in the spec of NumP, may precede and follow the possessives: (1) os meus outros
livros, the my other books “my other books”; (2) os outros meus livros, the other my books, “my other
books.” In (1) AgrP precedes NumP and the head N is in Num; in (2) NumP precedes PossP, the
head N being in Num.
12	 The author also explores the role of phonological factors in number marking. We will not go into
that in this chapter.
13	 The authors discuss two different variants of spoken BP, dubbed BP1 and BP2. According to them,
in BP2 there is no DP‐internal agreement, therefore, the only element to bear a plural marking is
the determiner.
14	 As the examples (63) and (64) from Menuzzi (1994) show, in BP a prenominal adjective agrees with
the determiner, but a postnominal adjective agrees with the noun, not inflecting for PL if the N does
not. The fact that a postnominal (relational) adjective intervenes between the noun and its arguments
(see (1) alguns amigo americano do João (some‐pl friend‐0 American‐0 of the João) versus (2) * alguns
amigo do João americano (some‐pl friend‐0 of the JoãoAmerican‐0)) shows that the movement of N also
occurs in BP. But the agreement phenomena in (63) and (64) indicate that the N does not land in the
head of NumP as the first step of its movement, as suggested for EP. Therefore, Menuzzi proposes
that this intermediate functional category may be gender, as also proposed by Picallo (1991) and
Bernstein (1993) for Spanish. Although we agree with Menuzzi that N (or Nʹ) movement does not
necessarily operates to Num in BP and may occur in another intermediate functional category, we do
not see advantages in considering that gender is this intermediate functional category, because
Gender should be considered a lexical, not a syntactic, property of nouns. However, exploiting this
point and its consequences is beyond the scope of this chapter.
15	 For a discussion on the semantic behavior of BNs, see Chapter 19.
16	 Assuming that the BNs in BP are not DPs, but rather NPs, could force an analysis that they will be in
some left periphery position when preverbal and will be incorporated to the verb, when in a postverbal
position. See Müller (2002), a.o., for a NP analysis. We will not explore that possibility here.
References
Abney, Steven (1987) The English noun phrase and
its sentential aspect. Ph.D. dissertation, MIT.
Bernstein, J. (1993). Topics in the syntax of
nominal structure across romance. Ph.D.
dissertation, City University of New York.
Bosque, I. and C. Picallo (1996). Postnominal
adjectives in Spanish DPs. Journal of
Linguistics, 32, pp. 349–385.
Brito, A. M. (1996). A ordem de palavras no
Sintagma Nominal em Português numa
The Structure of DPs  273
perspectiva de sintaxe comparada – um caso
particular: os Ns deverbais eventivos. In I.
Duarte and I. Leiria (eds.), Actas do Congresso
Internacional do Português. Lisbon: Colibri,
pp. 81–106.
Brito, A. M. (2007). European Portuguese
possessives and the structure of DP. Cuadernos
de Lingüistica XIV 2007, Instituto Universitario
de Investigación Ortega y Gasset, pp. 21–50.
Brito, A. M. and F. Oliveira (1997). Nominalization,
aspect and argument structure. In G. Matos,
M. Miguel, I. Duarte, and I. Faria (eds.), Interfaces
in Linguistic Theory. Lisbon: Linguistic Society of
Portugal, pp. 57–80.
Brito, A. and E. P. Raposo (2013). Complementos,
modificadores e adjuntos no sintagma
nominal. In E. P. Raposo, F. B. Nascimento,
M. A. Mota, L. Segura, and A. Mendes (eds.),
Gramática do Português. Lisbon: Fundação
Calouste Gulbenkian, pp. 1045–1113.
Cardinaletti, A. (1998). On the deficient/strong
position in possessive systems. In A.
Alexiadou and C. Wilder (eds.), Possessors,
Predicates and Movement in the Determiner
Phrase. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, pp. 17–53.
Castro, A. (2006). Possessives in European
Portuguese. Ph.D. dissertation, Universidade
Nova de Lisboa and Paris VIII‐Saint Denis.
Castro, A. and J. Costa (2003). Weak forms as X°:
prenominal possessives and preverbal adverbs
in Portuguese. In A. T. Pérez‐Leroux and Y.
Roberge (eds.), Romance Linguistics: Theory and
Acquisition. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 95–110.
Cinque, G. (1994). On the evidence for partial
N‐movement in the Romance DP. In G.
Cinque, J. Roster, J.‐Y. Pollock, L. Rizzi, and R.
Zanuttini (eds.), Paths towards Universal
Grammar, Studies in honor of Richard Kayne.
Georgetown: Georgetown University Press,
pp. 85–110.
Cinque, G. (2010). The Syntax of Adjectives: A
Comparative Study. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Coene, Martine and Yves D’Hulst (2003) From NP
to DP. Vol. 2. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Costa, J. and M. C. Figueiredo Silva (2006).
Nominal and verbal agreement in Portuguese:
an argument for distributed morphology. In J.
Costa and M. C. Figueiredo Silva (eds.), Studies
on Agreement. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 25–46.
Crisma, P. (1993). On adjective placement in
Romance and Germanic event nominals. In G.
Giusti and L. Bruge (eds.), Venice Working
Papers in Linguistics, 3 (2),
pp. 81–106.
Cyrino, S. and M. T. Espinal (2015). Bare
nominals in Brazilian Portuguese. More on
the NP/DP analysis. Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory, 33 (2), pp. 471–521.
Demonte, V. (1999). El adjectivo: clases y usos. La
posición del adjectivo en el sintagma nominal.
In I. Bosque and V. Demonte (eds.), Gramática
Descriptiva de la Lengua Española. Madrid:
Espasa, vol. I, pp. 129–215.
Giorgi, A. and G. Longobardi (1991). The Syntax
of Noun Phrases. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Grimshaw, J. (1990). Argument Structure.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Longobardi, G. (1994). Proper names and the
theory of N‐movement in syntax and logical
form. Linguistic Inquiry, 25, pp. 609–665.
Lopes, R. (2007). Against a unified analysis for
bare nouns in Brazilian Portuguese. Paper
presented at the 21st
Going Romance.
Amsterdam: University of Amsterdam.
Mattos e Silva, R. V. (1989). Estruturas Trecentistas.
Elementos para uma gramática do Português
Arcaico. Lisbon: Imprensa Nacional‐Casa da
Moeda.
Menuzzi, S. (1994). Adjectival positions inside
DP. In C. Cremers and R.
Bok‐Benema (eds.), Linguistics in the
Netherlands, vol. 11. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins, pp. 127–138.
Miguel, M. (2004). O Sintagma Nominal em
Português Europeu. Posições de Sujeito.
Ph.D. dissertation, University of Lisbon.
Müller, A. (2002). The semantics of generic
quantification in Brazilian Portuguese. Probus,
14 (2), pp. 279–298.
Müller, A. and F. Oliveira (2004). Bare nominals
and number in Brazilian and European
Portuguese. Journal of Portuguese Linguistics, 3,
pp. 9–36.
Parodi, C. (1994). On case and agreement in
Spanish and English DPs. In M. L. Mazzola
(ed.), Issues and Theory in Romance Linguistics.
Selected Papers from the Linguistic Symposium on
Romance Languages 1993. Washington, DC:
Georgetown University Press.
Picallo, M. C. (1991). Nominals and
nominalization in Catalan. Probus, 3,
pp. 287–288.
Ritter, E. (1991). Two functional categories in
noun phrases: evidence from modern Hebrew.
Syntax and Semantics, 25, pp. 37–62.
Scherre, M. M. P. (1988). Reanálise da
concordância nominal em português. Ph.D.
dissertation, Federal University of Rio de
Janeiro.
274  Ana Maria Brito and Ruth E. V. Lopes
Scherre, M. M. P. and A. J. Naro (1991). Marking
in discourse: “Birds of a feather.” Language
Variation and Change, 3, pp. 23–32.
Schmitt, C. and A. Munn (2002). The syntax and
semantics of bare arguments in Brazilian
Portuguese. Linguistic Variation Yearbook, 2,
pp. 185–216.
Simioni, L. (2011). Concordância em construções
passivas com argumentos pré e pós‐ verbais, e
incorporação de nomes nus no PB. Ph.D.
dissertation, University of São Paulo.
Sleeman, P. and A. M. Brito (2010).
Nominalization, event, aspect and argument
structure: a syntactic approach. In M. Duguine,
S. Huidobro, and N. Madariaga (eds.),
Argument Structure from a Crosslinguistic
Perspective. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 113–129.
Szabolcsi, Anna (1987) Functional categories in
the noun phrase. In István Kenesei (ed.),
Approaches to Hungarian 2, Szeged: JATE,
pp. 167–189.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
Interrogatives, relatives and clefts are structures that have a common property: they may
begin with a wh‐expression (e.g. quem “who,” o que “what”) generally linked to an empty
position in its clause. In generative approaches, as in Chomsky’s classic article entitled “On
wh‐movement” (Chomsky 1977), this expression is assumed to have been moved from a
clause internal position to a left peripheral position. In (1) we present an example of each
construction.
(1)  a.  De quem é que Joana desconfia? Interrogative
Of whom is that Joana is.suspicious?
b. Conheço o homem [de quem Joana desconfia] Relative
know‐1p‐sg the man of who Joana is.suspicious
c. [O que Joana comeu] foi o bolo. Pseudo‐cleft
What Joana ate was the cake.
The three structures differ, however, in their discourse properties, word order patterns and
syntactic distribution.
In this chapter, we will consider these structures, pointing out their general properties,
and relevant differences between European Portuguese (EP) and Brazilian Portuguese (BP),
and we will review theoretical approaches to them.
2. Interrogatives
This section is dedicated to wh‐interrogative sentences in Portuguese. They are attractive to
syntax because of the richness of ways of making questions, the abundance of phenomena
related to them, and for comparative reasons.
2.1.  Wh‐in‐situ
Standard studies on wh‐interrogatives (e.g. Rizzi, 1996) assume a parameter opposing
­
languages with and without wh‐movement in syntax. All languages have the same behavior
at LF where wh‐movement must occur: wh‐expressions are operators and need to set up their
Wh‐movement: Interrogatives,
Relatives and Clefts
Carlos Mioto and Maria Lobo
15
276  Carlos Mioto and Maria Lobo
scope at LF, which is achieved by moving wh‐expressions to a scope position. But languages
differ with respect to the visibility of wh‐movement: whereas in English it must be visible—
that is, it must apply in SS—in Chinese it cannot be.
Significantly, Portuguese is problematic for this picture since it licenses both wh‐in‐situ
and wh‐movement in the overt syntax. We have the following paradigm:
(2)  a.  Joana  comeu  o quê?
Joana  ate  what
“What did Joana eat?”
b. O que comeu Joana?           
(EP 
OK
 BP*)
c. O que Joana comeu?          
 (EP* BP OK
)
(3) a. Pedro  disse  que  Joana  comeu  o quê?
Pedro  said  that  Joana  ate  what
“What did Pedro say that Joana ate?”
b. O que disse Pedro que Joana comeu? (EP OK
BP??
)
c. O que Pedro disse que Joana comeu? (EP* BP OK
)
(4) a. Joana  chorou  quando  Pedro  cantou  o quê?
Joana cried  when  Pedro sang  
what
b. *O que   Joana chorou quando  Pedro cantou?
Single wh‐in‐situ expressions are allowed in matrix sentences (2a), and in embedded contexts
(3a), but they are obligatory when they are inside strong islands,1
as in (4a).
The coexistence of wh‐in‐situ with wh‐movement in a language raises serious problems
since a priori optionality is usually banned from syntax (see Chomsky 1995). To avoid option-
ality, the approaches propose that a wh‐in‐situ question is pragmatically different from a
wh‐fronted question, and they follow at least two paths. The first one assumes that wh‐in‐situ
simply results from no movement at all: the lack of wh‐movement is morphologically or
pragmatically conditioned. The second one assumes that the wh‐expression is always moved
and the final order results from moving other constituents: the burden of optionality is
located in the way the presupposed material is treated.
Ambar (2003) provides an approach of the second type, claiming that (2a) and (3a) are
derived by wh‐movement to WhP before the movement of remnant IP to AssertiveP, à la
Kayne (1994).2
The final order is derived by treating the presupposed IP as a moved block.
However, like every approach supposing overt wh‐movement to CP, Ambar’s account seems
to have problems in dealing with the acceptability of (4a), given the impossibility of extract-
ing from strong islands (4b), as Pires and Taylor (2007) point out.
Kato (2013) also provides an approach deriving wh‐in‐situ by movement. But her analysis
assumes that the wh‐expression moves clause‐internally to the left periphery of vP, à la
Belletti (2004). Since this is not a movement out of an island, it does not violate the Island
Condition, and (4a) can naturally be derived.
The analyses supposing lack of movement in wh‐in‐situ constructions avoid the island
problem. Some of them postulate the existence of an overt or covert wh‐particle base‐­
generated in C, and particular intonations associated to it that license wh‐in‐situ (Cheng and
Rooryk 2000, Cheng 2003). Languages like Chinese, which have a wh‐particle, tend to have
no wh‐movement (but see Bruening 2007). Extending this analysis to Portuguese, there
would be a silent morpheme licensing wh‐in‐situ: the optionality of wh‐in‐situ would be due
to presence or absence of the morpheme in the numeration (Kato 2013). Even assuming that
BP has a “fake wh‐in‐situ” (because of wh‐movement to FocusP in the left periphery of vP),
Wh‐movement: Interrogatives, Relatives and Clefts  277
Kato (2013) still postulates a silent Q‐operator (where “Q” stands for “Question”): for her,
this operator would be responsible for the various intonation patterns of wh‐in‐situ in BP.
Pires and Taylor (2007) claim that no movement occurs in wh‐in‐situ questions, and they
observe that their occurrence requires the satisfaction of specific discourse‐pragmatic condi-
tions, defined in terms of Common Ground (CG) (Stalnaker 2002). Besides echo questions,
wh‐in‐situ is felicitous in what they call specific Qs (which request more specific information
about something mentioned before), expected Qs (which occur when new information is
expected) and reference Qs (which ask for a paraphrase or repetition of something ­mentioned
before). The wh‐expression remains in‐situ because in the numeration there is a [+wh,+Q]
Comp that does not trigger wh‐movement. As a first approximation, we believe this is a good
description of the different uses of wh‐in‐situ in Portuguese.
2.2. Fronted wh
It is in matrix interrogatives with fronted wh that we find the major differences between EP
and BP. The first difference is observed in (5):
(5)  a.  O que Joana leu? (EP* BP OK
)
What Joana read
b. O que leu Joana? (EP OK
BP*)
What read Joana
“What did Joana read?”
In EP the subject cannot intervene between a wh‐expression like o que “what” and the verb
(referred as the WHVS order, versus the WHSV order), as in (5a), while in BP it can. In
presence of a wh‐expression like que livro “which book,” the WHSV order is allowed in EP:
(6) Que livro Joana leu? (EP?
BP OK
)
Which  book Joana read
Another type of sentence with fronted WH is the cleft interrogative:
(7) a. O que é/foi que Joana fez?
What is/was‐perf that Joana did‐perf
b. O que é/era que Joana fazia?
What is/was‐imperf that Joana did‐imperf
“What did Joana do?”
These sentences have three characteristic properties. First, either the copula remains in the
present form disagreeing with the verb fez “did,” or it agrees with the main verb—hence,
the perfective form foi “was” in (7a), and the imperfective era “was” in (7b). Second, the
presence of cleaving material allows the subject to occur before the verb fazer “to do” in EP.
Third, cleft interrogatives do not allow wh‐in‐situ (8a), nor in the focus position between the
é “is” and que “that” (8b):
(8) a. *É/ Foi que Joana fez o quê?
b. *É o que que Joana fez?
c. ?Foi que/o quê que Joana fez? (non‐echo)
If the wh‐expression appears between foi “was” and que “that,” the sentence is marked but
acceptable (8c).
278  Carlos Mioto and Maria Lobo
The cleft interrogative with the present form copula is the most natural wh‐question
in EP. But in BP it seems to be a sort of emphatic question. The most natural wh‐question in
BP shows a Doubly‐Filled Comp, as in (9a); just like cleft interrogatives, in this struc-
ture wh‐in‐situ is ruled out, as shown in (9b):
(9) a. O que que Joana comeu? (EP* BP OK
)
What that Joana ate
“What did Joana eat?”
b. *Que Joana comeu o quê?
In BP, even when we have a cleft/emphatic question, we can have a Doubly‐Filled Comp, as
in (10); and again wh‐in‐situ is forbidden, as in (10b):
(10)  a.  O que que é/foi que Joana comeu? (EP* BP OK
)
What that is/was that Joana ate
“What is it that Joana ate?”
b. *Que é/foi que Joana comeu o quê?
We will discuss four properties concerning the wh‐moved interrogatives: first, the ­
position
occupied by the fronted wh in (5) to (10) and by the finite verb in (5b); second, the property
that triggers the wh‐movement; third, the impossibility of wh‐in‐situ in questions with
material (finite verb or que “that”) in Comp and in cleft questions; and fourth, the derivation
for each grammatical sentence in (5) to (10).
Barbosa (2001) claims that in (5b) the wh‐expression is in Spec‐TP and the finite verb
in T. Thus there is no position to host the subject between the two. However, the extension
of this analysis to BP seems to be complicated because of the free occurrence of the
WHSV.
Ambar (1988), in her more traditional approach to EP, claims that the wh‐expression is
moved to SpecCP and the finite verb to C. The reason for these movements would be to
­
create the proper configuration for the identification of an empty category (ec) that would
characterize “simple” wh‐expressions like quem “who,” o que “what,” onde “where,” etc. In
“complex” wh‐expressions, such as que livro “which book” in (6), there would be no ec; hence,
verb movement to C° becomes unnecessary. However, Ambar’s solution cannot be applied
to BP interrogatives.
Mioto (1994) and Mioto and Kato (2005) propose an analysis based on Rizzi’s (1996)
­criterion system,3
deriving the differences between EP and BP from the properties of Infl: EP
has a [+wh] Infl, which must be in a Spec‐head configuration with a [+wh] operator, while
BP has a [–wh] Infl. In EP the configuration is achieved when the wh‐expression is in SpecCP
and Infl is in C°. This analysis does not account for the wh‐in‐situ in EP, since if Infl is defined
as [+wh], wh‐movement is obligatorily triggered to provide the Spec‐head relation. Having
Infl [–wh], BP can have wh‐in‐situ provided that a wh‐in‐situ is not an operator triggering a
Spec‐head relation at SS. To explain obligatory movement in cleft interrogatives and
Doubly Filled Comp constructions such as (10), the authors claim that que “that” defines C°
as a [+wh] head. Thus, every time we have phonological material in C°, like que “that” in BP
and Infl in EP, wh‐movement is required.
The fact that wh‐expressions cannot naturally land between the copula and the comple-
mentizer in clefts (8b, c) is explained by Mioto (2011) by claiming that the wh‐expression has
a [+focus,+wh] feature geometry for checking with Focus° and the higher C°, as in (11a):
(11) a. [O quei
queWH°
é/foi [ti
queFoc°
[Joana comeu ti
]]]?
b. [O que [C°
é que] Joana comeu ti
]?
Wh‐movement: Interrogatives, Relatives and Clefts  279
The [+wh, +focus] geometry explains why the wh‐expression can never remain in‐situ in
cleft interrogatives. Costa and Duarte (2001) and Costa and Lobo (2009), on the other hand,
claim  that the wh‐expression cannot stay between the copula and the complementizer
because é‐que “is that” is an idiom, as in (11b).
2.3. Embedded wh‐questions
Embedded interrogatives occur in selected contexts, generally as complements of verbs.
They are headed either by the “conjunction” se “if,” when the embedded sentence is a yes–no
question, or by a wh‐expression. The scope of their questioning is limited to the embedded
sentence. The wh‐expression must be fronted to the embedded CP:
(12)  a.  João perguntou que livro Joana leu.
“João asked which book Joana read”
b. *João perguntou se Joana leu que livro.
João asked if Joana read which book
“João asked which book Joana read.”
c. *João perguntou (que) Joana leu que livro.
João asked (that) Joana read which book
However, if the wh‐expression bears a subject or object function inside the embedded CP and
has matrix scope, it can be either licensed in‐situ or fronted to the matrix CP:
(13) a. João perguntou se Joana leu que livro?
João asked if Joana read which book
b. Que livro João perguntou se Joana leu?
Embedded clauses with fronted wh‐expressions follow the same pattern of matrix interroga-
tives, except that the WHVS order is not required for most wh‐phrases in EP:
(14) a. João perguntou [o que Joana leu]. (EP OK
BP OK
)
b. [o que é que Joana leu]. (EP OK
BP OK
)
c. [o que que Joana leu]. (EP* BP OK
)
The WHVS order is only required in EP when the wh‐expression is que “what”:
(15) a. João perguntou que leu Joana. (EP OK
BP*)
João asked what read Joana
“João asked what Joana read.”
b. *João perguntou que Joana leu.
With the other wh‐expressions besides que “what” WHVS in subordinate interrogatives is
said to be optional in EP.
Ambar (1988) attributes the possibility of the embedded WHSV order to the fact that the
matrix verb identifies the ec of the embedded wh‐expression. The WHVS order remains
obligatory only with que “what” because in this case the matrix verb would be unable to
identify its particular ec. But Mioto (2011) claims that que “what” has clitic properties that
force it to be adjoined to the embedded verb. In cases other than que “what,” he claims that
the WHVS order in embedded sentences in EP is triggered by focusing on the embedded
subject.
280  Carlos Mioto and Maria Lobo
3. Relatives
In this section, we will discuss some properties of relative clauses in Portuguese. Relative
clauses do not differ substantially in the two varieties of Portuguese, although non‐standard
strategies seem to be more accepted in the BP variety. Therefore, we will only distinguish the
two varieties when there are relevant differences between them.
We will first consider headed relatives (HR), discussing briefly different kinds of analyses
and standard and non‐standard strategies (3.1); then we will discuss free relatives (FR) and
their various constraints (3.2); finally, we will introduce some special properties of infinitival
free relatives (IFR) (3.3).
3.1.  Headed relatives
HRs are subordinate clauses introduced by a relativizer that establishes a relation with a
noun in the main clause. The relativizer can be a wh‐word or the complementizer que “that.”
In this case, it is generally assumed that an empty operator is filling the position of the wh‐
expression (e.g. Brito 1991). Differently from wh‐questions, in relatives the wh‐word is always
in the initial position (e.g. Costa, Fiéis, and Lobo 2012). There are no in‐situ relatives in
Portuguese, although there are relativizing strategies that avoid overt movement.
In traditional analyses (Chomsky 1977; for Portuguese, Tarallo 1983; Brito 1991), it is
assumed that, in standard Portuguese, HRs involve movement of a wh‐phrase to the left
periphery of the clause and adjunction of the relative clause to a nominal projection, as
in (16):4
(16) Esta é [NP
[NP
a cidade] [CP
[onde]i
eu nasci  ti
]]
This is the town where I was.born
Restrictive relatives are adjoined to a lower position than non‐restrictive relatives, but in
both cases we have an adjunction structure. Assuming the DP hypothesis, one can assume
that restrictive relatives are adjoined to NP, while appositive relatives are adjoined to DP
(Mioto, Figueiredo Silva, and Lopes 2013):
(17) a. [DP
[D
os] [NP
[NP
[N
alunos]] [CP
que reprovaram]]]
  the     students  that failed
b. [DP
[DP
[D
os] [NP
[N
alunos]]] [CP
que reprovaram]]
   the    students   that failed
More recently, analyses of HRs in Portuguese have followed Kayne’s (1994) hypothesis that
HRs involve head raising. That is, the so‐called antecedent of the relative pronoun is taken
to have been extracted from the relative clause, which itself is taken to be a complement of
D (Kenedy 2002; Cardoso 2011):
(18) [DP
[D
o] [CP
  livroi
  
que [IP
Camões escreveu ti
]]]
 the   
book that  Camões wrote
Empirical evidence for this analysis, presented for different languages (Kayne 1994) and for BP
by Kenedy 2002, comes from different phenomena, including binding, coordination, and restric-
tions on definite DPs, although some of these arguments are controversial. For example, an
empirical argument presented by Kenedy (2002) comes from contrasts between contexts where
definite DPs are allowed: a definite DP is allowed with the existential verb “haver” only when
there is a relative clause. In a raising analysis this is taken as evidence for D selecting a CP:
Wh‐movement: Interrogatives, Relatives and Clefts  281
(19) a. [DP
os [CP
livrosi
que havia ti
na biblioteca]] eram bons
  The  books that there was in.the library were good
b. * [VP
havia [DP
os [NP
livros bons]] na biblioteca]
  there was the good books in the library
There still is some controversy concerning the derivation of HRs, as CPs adjoined to a
nominal projection, in which a wh‐word or a null operator establishes a relation with an
­
antecedent, the standard and more widespread analysis, or as CPs selected by D, in which
the antecedent is raised from inside IP, as assumed in analyses inspired by Kayne’s proposal,
since some of the arguments presented in favor of the raising analysis are not convincing (see
for example, Alexandre, 2000).
Considering now differences between Portuguese and other languages, it is relevant to
mention that, unlike English, Portuguese does not allow preposition stranding (as in 20b).
When the wh‐word is inserted in a PP, the only standard available strategy involves pied‐
piping of the preposition along with the wh‐expression, as in (20a).
(20) a. Encontrei o homem [de quem] o inspetor desconfia __.
I found the man of whom the inspector is.suspicious
b. *Encontrei o homem [quem] o inspetor desconfia de __.
I found the man whom the inspector is.suspicious of
There are, however, non‐standard strategies that are very common in colloquial speech,
especially in BP (Tarallo 1983; Alexandre 2000). For PP‐relatives, these may involve chopping
the preposition, as in (21a), or filling the gap position with a resumptive pronoun (21b).
(21) a. Encontrei o homem que o inspetor desconfia.
I found the man that the inspector is.suspicious
b. Encontrei o homem que o inspetor desconfia dele.
I found the man that the inspector is.suspicious of‐him
In DP‐relatives, the resumptive strategy can also be found in non‐standard colloquial speech
both in BP and in EP (Alexandre 2000; Braga, Kato, and Mioto 2009).
(22) a. há certas coisasi
que não asi
compreendo (EP, apud Alexandre 2000)
there are certain things that I do not understand them
b. Temos lá, no meu ano, rapazesi
que elesi
parecem atrasados mentais (EP, apud Alexandre
2000)
We have, there, in my class, boys that they seem retarded
c. o homemi
que eu vi elei
… (BP, apud Kenedy 2002)
the man that I saw him …
d. eu preferia deixar evidentemente essa questão a um consultor jurídicoi
que elei
poderia
então lhe dar um resposta mais conclusiva…  (BP, adapted from Braga et al. 2009)
I would rather leave that issue to a juridic consultant that he could then give you a
more conclusive answer
In all these cases, the relativizer is always que “that.” This may be explained if these ­strategies
do not involve overt wh‐movement, but only an operator‐variable relation, the C position
being occupied by the complementizer que “that” and the specifier by an empty operator
(Brito 1991), base‐generated in the specifier of CP, according to Tarallo (1983), or moved into
that position, according to Brito (1991).
282  Carlos Mioto and Maria Lobo
The nature of resumption (and consequently of resumptive relatives) and whether it
involves movement or not is controversial (Rouveret 2011). Usually, resumption is viewed as
a strategy that does not involve movement (Tarallo 1985, McCloskey 1990, Alexandre 2000).
Instead, a pronoun is inserted in what would be the gap position and it establishes a relation
with a null operator directly inserted in the specifier of CP. Some of the arguments for the
absence of movement in resumptive structures include lack of subjacency (insensitivity to
island conditions) and weak crossover effects (McCloskey 1990, Rouveret 2011).
(23) a. Conheço um homem que os cães começam a ladrar quando se cruzam com ele.
b. *Conheço um homem com quem os cães começam a ladrar quando se cruzam.
I know a man that/*with whom the dogs start to bark when they cross with him/*__
(24) a. O homemi
que a suai
própria mulher oi
matou
b. ??O homemi
que a suai
própria mulher matou
The man that/??who his own wife killed him/??__
For many authors (Tarallo 1985, Rouveret 2011, among others) resumption is viewed as a
rescuing strategy when movement is ruled out. However, in Portuguese data we can find
resumptive relatives in contexts where there is no subjacency violation, alternating with gap
strategies (Alexandre 2000). Although Portuguese resumptive relatives cannot be viewed
only as a strategy of last resort, they do seem to be sensitive to gap distances and they are far
more productive in prepositional relatives as a strategy to avoid pied‐piping. Unlike Irish
(McCloskey 1990), non‐standard Portuguese may have resumptive subject relatives, as in
(22b) and (22d). However, the more the distance between the gap and the antecedent, the
more acceptable are resumptive relatives (Alexandre 2000).
The status of the resumptive pronoun is not very clear, since it seems to have properties
of a syntactic variable: it licenses parasitic gaps and is sensitive to strong crossover effects
(Alexandre 2000).
3.2.  Finite free relatives
Let us now consider another type of relative clause, the so‐called free relatives (FRs) or
­
relatives without an overt antecedent. These clauses are similar to HRs and wh‐questions in
that they are introduced by a wh‐word that binds a gap inside the relative clause. They differ,
however, from HRs in that there is no overt antecedent (25b):
(25) a. [Os alunos [que estudam]] têm boas notas.
The students that study have good marks
b. [Quem estuda] tem boas notas
Who studies has good marks
Besides the absence of an overt antecedent, FRs differ from HRs in several respects (Móia
1992; Marchesan 2012; Marchesan and Mioto 2012): they cannot be introduced by the com-
plementizer que “that” and by some of the wh‐pronouns (such as cujo “whose” or o qual
“which”); they have a more limited distribution in the clause; and they are subject to match-
ing requirements. Before discussing these properties, however, it is important to mention
that FRs can be easily confused with embedded interrogatives, since they have a similar
shape: they are both embedded clauses that begin with a wh‐word and can occur in argument
positions. However, embedded wh‐interrogatives occur mainly as complements of a few
classes of verbs, in particular epistemic verbs and verbs of inquiry, such as perguntar “ask” or
saber “know,” which also select unambiguous interrogative clauses introduced by se “if,
whether.” In standard varieties, they can be distinguished because only interrogatives may
have the é‐que “(it)‐is‐that” expression (Marchesan 2012), as in the contrast (26a) vs. (27a):
Wh‐movement: Interrogatives, Relatives and Clefts  283
(26) a. O professor elogiou quem (*é que) fez o trabalho.
The teacher praised who (is that) did the homework
b. *O professor elogiou se o aluno fez o trabalho.
The teacher praised if the student did the homework
(27) a. O professor sabe quem (é que) fez o trabalho.
The teacher knows who (is that) did the homework
b. O professor sabe se o aluno fez o trabalho.
The teacher knows if the student did the homework
Therefore, FRs have to be distinguished from embedded wh‐questions.
Moreover, they must be distinguished from HRs, too. First of all, there are wh‐expressions
that can introduce both HRs and FRs, such as onde “where” and como “how,” as in (28).
However, HRs can also be introduced by the complementizer that “que,” but FRs cannot, as
shown in (29). Finally, some wh‐expressions such as quem “who” and o que “what” (lit. “the
that”) cannot introduce HRs by themselves, but they can introduce FRs, as in (30) (Brito 1991,
Móia 1992, Marchesan and Mioto 2012):
(28) a. Eu morei (no lugar) onde ela mora.
“I lived (in the place) where she lives”
b. Eu detesto (o modo) como ele fala.
I hate (the way) how he speaks
(29) a. Eu conheço *(o rapaz) que ela convidou.
“I know *(the boy) that she invited”
b. Eu detesto *(o livro) que ele comprou.
I hate *(the book) that he bought
(30) a. Eu conheço (*o rapaz) quem ela convidou.
I know the boy who she invited
b. Eu detesto (*o livro) o que ele comprou.
I hate (*the book) what he bought
The status of the FR clause and of the constituent in which it is embedded is open to
discussion. Some authors have considered FRs to be plain CPs. Others have considered that
they are nominal structures—hence, embedded in some type of NP or DP. Brito (1991) and
Móia (1992), following Harbert (1983) and Suñer (1984), argue that FRs are embedded in
an NP that has an ec, pro.5
Brito (1991) explains the unavailability of que in finite FRs by
hypothesizing that pro is only licensed when the wh has phi‐features. Móia (1992) supports
this analysis by explaining the restrictions on the distribution of FRs according to Rizzi
(1986)’s conditions on the licensing and identification of pro; he further proposes a morpho‐
phonological rule by which the relative pronoun incorporates the ec. This would explain the
difference in the wh‐words that introduce HRs and FRs, the restrictions on the presence of
wh‐words preceded by a preposition and the matching requirements that we will describe
below. Considering the above restrictions on the expressions that introduce FRs, Marchesan
(2012) and Marchesan and Mioto (2012) propose that FRs are introduced by a wh‐word that
incorporates a noun specified for different features: [+human] quem “who”; [+locative] onde
“where”; [+time] quando “when”; [–human] o que “what”; [+quantity] quanto “how much”;
[+manner] como “how.”
However, the most distinctive characteristic of FRs is the fact that they are subject to mis-
match restrictions (MRs). Since Grimshaw (1977), MRs on FRs have been widely discussed
284  Carlos Mioto and Maria Lobo
in the literature for different languages and also for EP and BP (Móia 1992, Negrão 1994,
Marchesan 2012). Consider the following contrast:
(31) a. O rapaz a quem telefonaste saiu.
the boy to whom you.phoned left
b. *A quem telefonaste saiu.
To whom you.phoned left
(32) a. Conheço o rapaz com quem ela casou.
I.know the boy with whom she married
b. *Conheço com quem ela casou.
I.know with whom she married
Although there is no restriction on the position where HRs can occur, there are restrictions
on the distribution of FRs. For example, in (31b) an FR introduced by a preposition cannot be
the subject of the main clause, and in (32b) an FR introduced by the preposition com “with,”
selected by the verb casou “married,” cannot occur as an internal argument of the transitive
verb conhecer “know.” These cases suggest that in Portuguese the wh‐expression that intro-
duces a FR must match the categorial requirements of the matrix position where the relative
is embedded.
There are, however, some contexts where mismatches seem to be acceptable, though MRs
do not have the same effects in the two varieties. In EP, a FR may be introduced by a prepo-
sition when the same preposition is selected by the main verb. According to Móia (1992), this
is fully acceptable when the main verb is the same as in the embedded clause (33a), gram-
maticality judgments vary in the other cases (33b,c), but mismatch is ungrammatical (33d,e):
(33) a. Eu confio em quem tu confias. (Móia 1992: 89)
I trust in whom you trust
b. Eu dei um livro a quem tu ofereceste uma bicicleta. (Móia 1992: 89)
I gave a book to whom you offered a bicycle
c. ?Eu zanguei‐me com quem tu conversaste. (Móia 1992: 89)
I got.angry with whom you talked
d. *Eu vi ontem (de) quem tu gostas. (EP, Brito 1991: 204)
I saw yesterday (of) whom you like
e. *Detesto (com) quem tu saíste. (EP, Brito 1991: 204)
I.hate (with) whom you went.out
In BP, however, prepositions can be deleted under some circumstances, and this makes room
for structures that would, otherwise, result in mismatching. Specifically, if the preposition
selected by the embedded predicate is deletable, and the matrix position selects for a DP,
then mismatch is avoided and the sentence is possible, as in (34); if, for some reason, the
preposition is not deletable, then mismatch cannot be avoided, and the sentence is excluded,
as in (35) (cf. Negrão 1994, Marchesan 2012):
(34) a. Eu só ajudo (*de) quem eu gosto.
I only help (*of) whom I am.fond
b. Eu comprei (*d)o que eu precisava.
I bought (*of) what I have.need
Wh‐movement: Interrogatives, Relatives and Clefts  285
(35) a. *Eu conheço [quem a Maria casou com].
I know whom Maria married with
b. *João detesta [quem o filho anda com].
João hates whom his son walks with
c. *Eu convidei [quem você saiu com].
I invited whom you went.out with
Mismatches can also be found with FRs introduced by quando “when,” onde “where,” and
como “how.” In BP, they may occur in subject position and as direct objects, unlike WH PPs,
although there is some variation in acceptability judgements:
(36) a.
aʹ. 
[Quando o bebê dormir] vai ser um bom momento para conversarmos.
When the baby will.fall.asleep is a.good time (for us) to talk
Adoro [quando estou de férias]
I.love when I.am on holiday
b.
bʹ. 
?[Onde os meus pais moram] é um sítio sossegado.
Where my parents live is a quiet place
Encontrei [onde estava o telefone]
I.found where the telephone was.
c.
cʹ.
?[Como ele se veste] pode chocar algumas pessoas.
How he dresses may shock some people
Adoro [como ele se veste]
I.love how he dresses
In EP, these wh‐words have a more limited distribution, but they may have a null ­
antecedent
and thus can function as DPs (Móia 1992, Marchesan and Mioto 2012).
3.3.  Infinitival free relatives
Aspecial type of FR are IFRs (Brito 1991; Móia 1992; Ferreira 2007; Marchesan 2012; Marchesan
and Mioto 2012).6
These FRs have a special behavior: they are infinitival clauses and they
only occur as complements to a limited set of verbs, including mainly the existential verb
haver “(there) to be” and the possessive verb ter “to have,” but also more rarely verbs like
encontrar “to find,” arranjar “to get,” or trazer “to bring” (Ferreira 2007):
(37) a. Não há para onde fugir.
(There) not is to where to.escape
b. Ela não tem de que viver.
She (does) not have from what to.live
c. Não encontrei com quem desabafar.
(I did) not find with whom to.talk
IFRs do not allow the wh‐expression to be the subject of the clause (39a,b):
(38) a. Não tenho a quem telefonar.
(I).don’t have to whom to.phone
b. *Não tenho quem telefonar aos alunos.
(I).don’t have who to.phone to.the students
c. Não tenho quem telefone aos alunos.
(I).don’t have who phones to.the students
286  Carlos Mioto and Maria Lobo
When the wh‐expression is the subject, the verb of the relative takes the subjunctive form
(38c). IFRs are weak islands to extraction, unlike other complement FRs (39) (Móia 1992;
Marchesan and Mioto 2012):
(39) a. ?Que livro é que ele não tem a quem dar?
Which book is that he does.not have to who give
b. *Que livro é que ele elogiou quem leu?
Which book is that he praised who read
The analysis of IFRs is controversial. According to Brito (1991), IFRs are CPs embedded in an
NP headed by a null category pro that acts as antecedent of the wh‐expression and that
receives an arbitrary feature from the matrix verb. This would explain the fact that they
always have an indefinite reading and can only have an indefinite overt antecedent:
(40) a. Não tenho ninguém a quem telefonar.
(I do) not have nobody to whom to.phone.
b. Não tenho (*os) meninos com quem brincar.
(I do) not have children with whom to.play
To explain the extraction phenomena (absence of subjacency in IFRs), Móia (1992) proposes
that the selected constituent is a maximal CP(and not a CPembedded in a nominal ­projection)
and pro occupies the highest specifier projection of maximal CP:
(41) [Vʹ
ter [CPmax
pro [CP
[com quem]i
[Cʹ
PRO discutir o assunto ti
]]]]
 have pro   with whom  PRO  to.discuss the subject
Marchesan and Mioto (2012) consider that IFRs are weak islands for extraction because of the
defective status of the non‐finite IP.
4. Clefting
Portuguese is very rich in focusing processes, which share some properties with wh‐questions.
Without the clefting apparatus, the focused constituent can remain in‐situ or be dislocated to
the left, as for the wh‐expression. With clefting, the focused constituent must be moved. We can
understand this similarity if we consider that the behavior of cleft constituents can be reduced
to wh‐movement.
Despite the unique function of focusing a phrasal constituent, clefts and pseudo‐clefts
(PCL) have resisted a unified treatment, raising challenges since the end of the 1960s (see
Akmajian 1970, Costa and Duarte 2001, among others). For that reason, we dedicate a specific
section to each construction.
4.1. Clefts
In their full form, clefts (CL) are complex sentences with a matrix clause headed by the
functional verb ser “be” and an embedded clause with the main predication, headed by
the complementizer que “that.” In the examples below, the focused constituents are
underlined:
Wh‐movement: Interrogatives, Relatives and Clefts  287
(42) a. Foi João que pescou esse peixe.
Was João that fished this fish
“It was João that fished this fish.”
b.
c.
João foi que pescou esse peixe. (EP*
BP OK
)
João é que pescou esse peixe.
João is that fished this fish
(42a) is a standard CL, called “it‐cleft”; (42b) is an inverted‐CL with tense agreement bet-
ween the copula and the lexical verb; (42c) is another type of inverted‐CL, but with the
copula in the present form. Other possible focusing structures arguably derived from clefts
are the ones in (43):
(43) a. João que pescou esse peixe. (EP* BP OK
)
João that fished this fish
“It was João that fished this fish.”
b. Foi João.7
“It was João.”
(43a) corresponds to a CL without copula, only available in BP, and (43b) is a be‐fragment‐CL,
with the que‐clause elided (e.g., when it is given in the previous discourse: (43b) could be an
answer for Quem foi que pescou esse peixe? “Who was it that fished this fish?”).
The first issue raised by CLs concerns the status of the que‐clause in (42). Observe (44)
(adapted from Mioto and Negrão 2007):
(44) a. Foi o aluno que foi reprovado.
Was the pupil that was reproved
“It was the pupil that was reproved.”
b. Quem foi reprovado?
“Who was reproved?”
c. Que aluno pediu cursos de revisão?
“Which pupil asked for refresher courses?”
The focus in (44a) can be set up according to the questions in (44b and c). If (44a) is an answer
to (44b), o aluno “the pupil” is the focus and it bears the main stress of the sentence, while
the rest of the sentence is presupposed and receives a destressed intonation. But if (44a) is the
answer to (44c), the focus and the main stress will lie on the que‐clause. Is the que‐sentence a
relative in (44a)? Ambar (2005) and Mioto and Negrão (2007) claim that it is not when the
sequence corresponds to a CL, that is, when answering to (44b).8
The second issue has to do with tense and person agreement. Tense agreement is easier
to describe since the copula and the main verb have to agree in tense (45), except when the
cleft is inverted, that is, when the focus precedes the copula (46):
(45) Era esse peixe que João estava pescando. (EP OK
BP OK
)
Was‐imperf that fish that João was‐imperf fishing
“It was this fish that João was fishing.”
(46) a. Esse peixe é que João estava pescando.     
   (EP 
OK
  BP OK
)
b. Esse peixe era que João estava pescando.       (EP 
OK
  BP OK
)
In BP, either there is tense agreement, or ser appears in its present form é; in EP the copula is
always invariable in this case.
288  Carlos Mioto and Maria Lobo
Although there can be tense agreement in BP between the copula and the main verb when
the focus is fronted, there cannot be person agreement neither in BP nor in EP (47). However,
there is person agreement between the copula and a focused pronominal that follows it,
especially when it is the subject of the que‐clause (48):
(47) a. Eu é que pesquei esse peixe.
I is that fished1‐p‐sg this fish
“It was me that fished this fish.”
b. * Eu sou que pesquei esse peixe.
I am that fished1‐p‐sg this fish.
(48) a. Fui eu que pesquei esse peixe.
Was‐1p‐sg I that fished‐1p‐sg this fish
“It was me that fished this fish.”
b. *Foi eu que pesquei esse peixe.
Was‐3p‐sg I that fished‐1p‐sg this fish
Person and number agreement with the copula is widespread in be‐fragments with a
focused DP:
(49) a. – Quem pescou esses peixes?
  “Who fished these fishes?”
– Foram os meninos.
  Were‐3p‐pl the boys
  “It was the boys.”
– ? Foi os meninos
  Was‐3p‐sg the boys
b. – O que é que os meninos pescaram?
  “What did the boys fish?”
– Foram esses peixes.
  Were‐3p‐pl these fishes
– ? Foi esses peixes.
  Was‐3p‐sg these fishes
The third property we will now consider is the kind of focus CLs can convey. For this
purpose, assume that it is sufficient to distinguish mere new information (an answer
to wh‐question) from other types of focus (see Zubizarreta 1998). Non‐informational
­
(contrastive) focus can be conveyed by every type of CL (and by in‐situ and dislocated
constituents). But only be‐fragment CLs unrestrictedly convey mere information focus
(as well as in‐situ focus). CLs without copula (43a) and standard it‐CLs (42a) convey
mere information focus only when the subject is focused (Guesser 2011, Quarezemin
2009).
As for the derivation of CLs, since Chomsky (1977) the it‐CL in (43a) has been known to
be derived by wh‐movement. Under Chomsky’s analysis, a wh‐pronoun is moved to
SpecCP and deleted later, as in that‐relatives. Kiss (1998) postulates a FP category above CP
where the focus is moved to when it can be moved, or where it is directly generated when
the movement cannot occur. Mioto and Figueiredo Silva (1995), Modesto (2001), Lobo
(2006), and Soares (2006) derive (42a) by moving the focus to the Spec position of the CP
subcategorized by the copula.
The derivation of inverted CLs (42b, c) can be achieved in two ways. With the copula in
present tense it can be assumed that é‐que “is‐that” is an idiom (see Casteleiro 1979, and
Wh‐movement: Interrogatives, Relatives and Clefts  289
Costa and Duarte 2001), and that the focus movement targets the higher CP directly. Thus,
the inverted CL is a monoclausal sentence with the focus in Spec‐CP and é‐que in C° (Lobo,
Santos, and Soares‐Jesel, 2015) or in a left periphery projection (Soares 2006). Where there
is no idiom, either the focus stays between the copula and that (42a) or, as in BP clefts with
foi‐que “was‐that,” it is moved higher (42b) (see Guesser 2011).
The BP CL without copula (43a), which is also monoclausal, can be derived by moving the
focus phrase to SpecCP (see Resenes 2009).
4.2. Pseudo‐clefts
In their full form, pseudo‐clefts (PC) are complex sentences. Their matrix clause contains ser
“to‐be” and the focus (underlined in (50)), and the embedded clause seems to be a FR, as in (50):
(50) a. O que João pescou foi esse peixe.
What João fished was this fish.
b. Foi esse peixe o que João pescou.
c. Esse peixe foi o que João pescou.
In (50) we have examples of PCs, with o que “what” heading the FR: (50a) is a standard PC;
(50b) is a PC with the FR extraposed; (50c) is a PC with inverted focus. Moreover, there are
other focusing “PC” strategies available: consider (51), sometimes called reduced PC, where
the wh‐pronoun is absent:
(51) João pescou foi esse peixe.
João fished was this fish
“(What) João fished was this fish”
Akmajian (1970) points out that a sequence like (52a) is ambiguous in English:
(52) a. What Joana is is scandalous.
b. Joana is scandalous.
c. Joana is x and being x is scandalous.
(52a) can have a specificational reading (52b), or a predicational one, (52c). It is interesting to
notice that the gender mark in biform adjectives in Portuguese helps us determine the status
of a sequence that can be ambiguous in English:
(53) a. O que Joana é é escandalosa.
What Joana is is scandalous‐fem
b. O que Joana é é escandaloso.
What Joana is is scandalous‐masc
The feminine mark triggers the specificational reading in (53a) (corresponding to (52b))
while the masculine mark triggers the predicational one in (53b) (corresponding to (52c)).
The gender agreement of the adjective not only contributes to solving the ambiguity, but
it also sheds light on the syntactic structure of (53a and b). On the one hand, the FR is the
argument of the predicate escandaloso “scandalous‐masc” and the subject of the copular sen-
tence; thus, the adjective takes the unmarked form (masculine) to agree with the FR. On the
other hand, this shows that the syntactic structure of (53a) cannot be like the one of (53b),
since the adjective agrees with Joana, taking the feminine form; hence, [o que Joana é] does not
behave as a subject FR in (53a). We assume that a specificational PC must be a sentence with
290  Carlos Mioto and Maria Lobo
a meaningless grammatical apparatus (wh‐pronoun and copula) to focus a constituent, escan-
dalosa (scandalous‐fem) in (53a).
It should be noticed that attempts to derive a PC from a small clause from which the FR is
moved (as proposed by Costa and Duarte 2001, for example) must be prepared to explain the
patterns of gender agreement just described.
The agreement problem meets the well‐known “Connectivity Effects” (CE) of specifica-
tional pseudo‐clefts, since both phenomena depend on the c‐command configuration. Boskovic
(1997) provides a solution for CE by recovering c‐command at LF. Analyses such as those
­
proposed by Boeckx (2007) and Kato and Mioto (2010) seek to solve agreement and the CE
problems by restoring the subject‐predicate relation in visible syntax, at the beginning of the
derivation. For Boeckx, a sentence like (53a) starts up as (54a); for Kato and Mioto, as (54b):
(54) a. Boeckx (adapted): Joana é indigna de si mesma
	 Joana is unworthy‐fem of herself
b. Kato and Mioto: Joana é [o que, indigna de si mesma]9
	 Joana is [what, unworthy‐fem of herself]
After successive mergers and movements, PC is derived. By doing so, such analyses recover
the required c‐command configuration lost along the derivation.
As for the reduced PC, there are two different approaches. Wheeler (1982) and Toribio
(1992) suppose that a reduced PC is simply a PC without the wh‐pronoun. But, by pointing
out several asymmetries in Caribbean Spanish, Bosque (1999) convincingly shows that the
derivation of reduced PC cannot be so simple. Bosque (1999), Camacho (2006), Kato and
Mioto (2010) and Mioto (2012) consider that the copula is taken to be a device to focus the
constituents at the low IP area, including the whole VP.
5.  Concluding remarks
In this chapter, we have shown that there are common properties to three different structures
of Portuguese—interrogatives, relatives and clefts. However, we have also shown that these
structures differ in many respects. We have described some of these similarities and differ-
ences; we have also tried to describe and explain some of the differences between EP and BP
varieties. The nature of the cross‐linguistic constraints on wh‐movement structures is still
open to discussion and further investigation will certainly bring new light on some of the
issues we have briefly discussed here. However, we hope to have shown that the data from
Portuguese, in particular the rich patterns of interrogatives and clefts, are extremely inter-
esting for the understanding of the nature of abstract principles of grammar and of the
syntax–discourse interface.
Notes
1  Strong islands are sentential domains, like a relative sentence, from where a phrase cannot be
extracted, as in:
(i) *O quei
João viu o menino [que comeu ti
]?
What João saw the boy that ate
Wh‐movement: Interrogatives, Relatives and Clefts  291
However, extraction from a weak island, like an interrogative, is possible in Portuguese:
(ii)  Que livroi
João perguntou [se Joana leu ti
]?
Which book João asked whether Joana read
2	 Ambar’s analysis supposes a multilayered CP hosting the wh‐phrase and the remnant IP as
presupposed information (Kayne 1994).
3	The wh‐criterion requires a head endowed with the wh‐feature to be in Spec‐head configuration with
a wh‐operator (a wh‐phrase) and vice‐versa.
4	 In traditional analyses, the relative clause is either adjoined to NP, the nominal maximal projection,
or to Nʹ. More recently, following the DP hypothesis (Abney 1987), one may consider that the relative
clause may be adjoined to NP selected by D (restrictive relative) or to DP (appositive relative)
(Demirdache 1991).
5	 Pro is one of the empty categories postulated in the principles and parameters framework. It is a
base‐generated empty category, functioning as a null pronominal. First proposed for null subjects
(Chomsky 1982), it was later extended to other contexts, including for example nominal ellipsis
(Lobeck 1995) and some types of null objects (Rizzi 1986).
6	 Other structures discussed in the literature are so‐called “transparent free relatives” (Ferreira 2007;
Marchesan 2012). Due to space limitations, we will not discuss them here.
7	 Below we will discuss if the be‐fragment can be a fragment of a cleft or a pseudo‐cleft.
8	 At least it does not correspond to a full cleft. (45a) can be considered a be‐fragment cleft whose full
form would be:
Foi o aluno que foi reprovado que pediu cursos de revisão.
was the student that failed that requested courses of revision
9	 The bracketed constituent is conceived by Kato and Mioto as a complex constituent similar to those
of clitic doubling postulated by Kayne (2002).
References
Abney, S. P. (1987). The English noun phrase in its
sentential aspect. Ph.D. thesis, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. MIT Working Papers in
Linguistics, Cambridge, MA.
Alexandre, N. (2000). A Estratégia Resumptiva
em Relativas Restritivas do Português
Europeu. Masters dissertation, Faculdade de
Letras da Universidade de Lisboa.
Akmajian, A. (1970). On deriving cleft sentences
from pseudocleft sentences. Linguistic Inquiry,
1, pp. 149–168.
Ambar, M. (1988). Para uma Sintaxe da Inversão
Sujeito‐Verbo em Português. Ph.D. dissertation.
Lisboa: Colibri (published 1992).
Ambar, M. (2003). WH asymmetries. In A. M.
Di Sciullo (ed.), Asymmetries in Grammar.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins, pp. 209–250.
Ambar, M. (2005). Clefts and tense asymmetries.
In A. M. di Sciullo (ed.), UG and External
Systems. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 95–129.
Barbosa, P. (2001). On inversion in wh‐questions
in romance. In A. Hulk and J.‐Y. Pollock (eds.),
Subject Inversion in Romance and the Theory of
Universal Grammar. New York: Oxford
University Press, pp. 20–59.
Belletti, A. (2004). Aspects of the low IP area.
In L. Rizzi (ed.), The Structure of IP and CP.
The Cartography of Syntactic Structures, vol. 2.
New York: Oxford University Press, pp. 16–51.
Boeckx, C. (2007). Pseudocleft: a fully
derivational account. In J. Bayer,
T. Bhattacharya, and M. T. Hany Babu (eds.),
Linguistic Theory and South Asian Languages:
Essays in Honour of K. A. Jayaseelan.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins, pp. 29–40.
Bosque, I. (1999). On focus vs. wh‐movement: the
case of Caribbean Spanish. Sophia Linguistica
Working Papers in Linguistics, 44/45, pp. 1–32.
Bošković, Ž (1997). Pseudoclefts, Studia
Linguistica, 51(3), pp. 235–277.
Braga, M. L., M. A. Kato, and C. Mioto (2009).
As Construções‐Q no Português Brasileiro
Falado. In: M. A. Kato and M. do Nascimento.
(eds.), Gramática do Português Culto Falado no
Brasil: a Construção da Sentença.
Campinas: Editora da UNICAMP, Vol. 3,
pp. 237–290.
292  Carlos Mioto and Maria Lobo
Brito, A. (1991). A sintaxe das orações relativas
em português: estrutura, mecanismos
interpretativos e condições sobre a distribuição
dos morfemas relativos. Ph.D. dissertation,
Instituto Nacional Nacional de Investigação
Científica.
Bruening, B. (2007). Wh‐in‐situ does not correlate
with wh‐indefinites or question particles.
Linguistic Inquiry, 38 (1), pp. 139–166.
Camacho, J. (2006). In situ focus in Caribbean
Spanish: towards a unified account of focus.
In N. Sagarra and J. Toribio (eds.), Hispanic
Linguistics Symposium. Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla Press, pp. 13–23.
Cardoso, A. (2011). Orações relativas apositivas
em português: entre a sincronia e a diacronia.
Estudos de Lingüística Galega, 3, pp. 5–29.
Casteleiro, J. M. (1979). Sintaxe e semântica das
construções enfáticas com “é que”. Boletim de
Filologia, XXV, pp. 97–166.
Cheng, L. L.‐S. (2003). Wh‐in‐situ. Glot
International, 7 (4), pp. 103–109.
Cheng, L. and J. Rooryk (2000). Licensing
wh‐in‐situ. Syntax, 3, pp. 1–19.
Chomsky, N. (1977), On wh movement. In
P. Culicover, T. Wasow, and A. Akmajian (eds.),
Formal Syntax. New York: Academic Press,
pp. 71–132.
Chomsky, N. (1982). Some Concepts and
Conequences of the Theory of Government and
Binding. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. (1995). The Minimalist Program.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Costa, J. and I. Duarte (2001). Minimizando a
estrutura: uma análise unificada das
construções de clivagem em Português. In
C. Correia and A. Gonçalves (eds.), Actas do
XVI ENAPL. Lisbon: APL/Colibri,
pp. 627–638.
Costa, J., A. Fiéis, and M. Lobo (2012).
Pied‐piping e movimento em estruturas
adverbiais. Textos Selecionados, XXVII Encontro
Nacional da Associação Portuguesa de Linguística.
Lisbon: APL, pp. 185–195.
Costa, J. and M. Lobo (2009). Estruturas clivadas:
evidência dos dados do português europeu
não‐standard. Anais do Congresso Internacional
da Abralin – João Pessoa – 2009, vol. 2. João
Pessoa: Universidade Federal Paraná,
pp. 3800–3806.
Demirdache, H. (1991). Resumptive chains in
restrictive relatives, appositives, and
dislocation structures. Ph.D. dissertation, MIT.
Ferreira, S. A. (2007). Sobre a função e a forma de
alguns subtipos especiais de orações relativas
sem antecedente expresso do português. MA
dissertation, Lisbon: FLUL.
Grimshaw, J. (1977). English Wh‐Constructions
and the Theory of Grammar. PhD Dissertation,
University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
Guesser, S. (2011). La Sintassi delle frasi cleft in
Portoghese Brasiliano. Ph.D. dissertation,
Università di Siena.
Harbert, W. (1983). On the nature of the
matching parameter. The Linguistic Review, 2
(3), pp. 237–284.
Kato, M. A. (2013). Deriving “wh‐in‐situ”
through movement in Brazilian Portuguese.
In V. Camacho‐Taboada, Á. L. Jiménez‐
Fernández, J. Martín‐González, and
M. Reyes‐Tejedor (eds.), Information Structure
and Agreement. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 175–192.
Kato, M. A. and C. Mioto (2010). Pseudo‐clefts
and semi‐clefts in Portuguese and Caribbean
Spanish. Paper presented at Romania Nova,
Campos do Jordão.
Kayne, R. (1994). The Antisymmetry of Syntax.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Kayne, R. (2002). Pronouns and their antecedents.
In S. Epstein and D. Seely (eds.), Derivation and
Explanation in the Minimalist Program.
Malden, MA: Blackwell, pp. 133–166.
Kenedy, E. (2002). Aspectos estruturais da
relativização em português – uma análise
baseada no modelo raising. Masters
dissertation, Federal University of Rio de
Janeiro.
Kiss, K. (1998). Identificational focus versus
information focus. Language 74, pp. 245–273.
Lobeck, A. (1995). Ellipsis: functional heads,
licensing and identification. Language, 72 (3),
pp 634–637.
Lobo, M. (2006). Assimetrias em construções de
clivagem do português: movimento vs.
geração na base. XXI Encontro Nacional da
Associação Portuguesa de Linguística. Textos
Seleccionados, Lisbon: APL/Colibri,
pp. 457–473.
Lobo, M., A. L. Santos, and C. Soares‐Jesel (2015).
Syntactic structure and information structure:
the acquisition of Portuguese clefts and Be‐
fragments, Language Acquisition, DOI:
10.1080/10489223.2015.1067317
Marchesan, A. C. (2012). As relativas livres no
Português Brasileiro. Masters dissertation,
Federal University of Santa Catarina.
Marchesan, A. C. and C. Mioto (2012).
As relativas livres infinitivas no PB.
Manuscript.
McCloskey, J. (1990). Resumptive pronouns,
Ā‐binding and levels of representation in Irish.
In R. Hendrick, ed. The Syntax of the Modern
Celtic Languages. Syntax and Semantics Vol. 23,
Wh‐movement: Interrogatives, Relatives and Clefts  293
San Diego: Academic Press, pp. 199–248.
[Republished in Rouveret, A. (ed.) (2011).
Resumptive Pronouns at the Interfaces.]
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Mioto, C. (1994). As interrogativas no português
brasileiro e o critério‐WH. Letras de Hoje, 96,
pp. 19–33.
Mioto, C. (2011). Interrogativas WH no português
europeu e no português brasileiro. In R. Pires
de Oliveira and C. Mioto (eds.), Percursos em
Teoria da Gramática. Florianópolis: Editora da
UFSC, pp. 43–72.
Mioto, C. (2012). Reduced pseudoclefts in
Caribbean Spanish and in Brazilian
Portuguese. In V. Bianchi and C. Chesi. (eds.),
Enjoy Linguistics! Papers offered to Luigi Rizzi on
the occasion of his 60th birthday. Siena: CISCL
Press, pp. 287–302.
Mioto, C. and M. C. Figueiredo Silva (1995).
Wh que = Wh é que? DELTA,11(2),
pp. 301–311.
Mioto, C. and M. A. Kato (2005). As
interrogativas Q do português europeu e do
português brasileiro atuais. Revista da
ABRALIN, 4 (1), pp. 171–196.
Mioto, C. and E. V. Negrão (2007). As sentenças
clivadas não contêm uma relativa. In A. T. de
Castilho, M. A. Torres‐Morais; R. E. V. Lopes,
S. M. L. Cyrino (eds.), Descrição, História e
Aquisição do Português Brasileiro. Campinas:
Pontes, pp. 159–183.
Mioto, C., M. C. Figueiredo Silva and R. Lopes
(2013). Novo manual de sintaxe. São Paulo:
Editora Contexto.
Modesto, M. (2001). As construções clivadas
no português do Brasil: relações entre
interpretação focal, movimento sintático e prosódia.
São Paulo: Humanitas/FFLCH/USP.
Móia, T. (1992). A sintaxe das orações relativas
sem antecedente expresso do português.
Masters dissertation, Faculdade de Letras da
Universidade de Lisboa.
Negrão, E. V. (1994). As relativas livres no PB:
efeito de conformidade categorial.
Estudos Linguísticos, Seminário do Gel, XXIII,
Ribeirão Preto. Anais, São Paulo, vol. 2,
pp. 1036–1284.
Pires, A. and H. L. Taylor (2007). The syntax of
wh‐in‐situ and common ground. Proceedings
from the Annual Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic
Society 43, 2, pp. 201–215.
Quarezemin, S. (2009). Estratégias de focalização
no português brasileiro: uma abordagem
cartográfica. Ph.D. dissertation, Universidade
Federal de Santa Catarina.
Resenes, M. S. de (2009). Sentenças Pseudo‐clivadas
do Português Brasileiro. Masters dissertation,
Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina.
Rizzi, L. (1986). Null objects in Italian and the
theory of pro. Linguistic Inquiry, 17 (3),
pp. 501–557.
Rizzi, L. (1996). Residual verb second and the wh
criterion. In A. Belletti and L. Rizzi (eds.),
Parameters and Functional Heads: Essays in
Comparative Syntax. New York: Oxford
University Press, pp. 64–90.
Rouveret, A. (2011). Some issues in the theory of
resumption: A perspective on early and recent
research. In A. Rouveret (ed.), Resumptive
Pronouns at the Interfaces. Amsterdam/
Philadephia: John Benjamins, pp. 1–62.
Soares, C. (2006). La syntaxe de la périphérie
gauche en portugais européen et son
acquisition. PhD dissertation. Paris: University
of Paris 8.
Stalnaker, R. (2002). Common ground. Linguistics
and Philosophy, 25, pp. 701–721.
Suñer, M. (1984). Free relatives and the matching
parameter. The Linguistic Review, 3 (4),
pp. 363–387.
Tarallo, F. (1983). Relativization strategies in
Brazilian Portuguese. Ph.D. dissertation,
University of Pennsylvania.
Tarallo, F. (1985). The filling of the gap: Pro‐drop
rules in Brazilian Portuguese. In L. King,
L. And A. Maley (eds.), Selected Papers from the
XIIIth Linguistic Symposium on Romance
Languages. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Toríbio, A. J. (1992). Proper government in
Spanish subject relativization. Probus, 4,
pp. 291–304.
Wheeler, D. (1982). Portuguese pseudo‐clefts:
evidence for free relatives. Eighteenth Regional
Meeting Chicago Linguistic Society, pp. 507–520.
Zubizarreta, M. L. (1998). Prosody, Focus, and
Word Order, Linguistic Inquiry Monograph 33.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
Null Object and VP ellipsis share the property of involving the omission of the complement
selected by the verb. Their occurrence across languages does not fully overlap. In Portuguese,
both constructions coexist, some sentences being ambiguous between the two construc-
tions. In this section we will outline the scope of our study, in Sections 2 and 3 we will
respectively analyze the properties of Null Object and VP ellipsis in European and Brazilian
Portuguese, (henceforth, EP and BP).
Null Object (henceforth, Null‐Obj) designates the absence of the phonological expression
of the necessary nominal internal complement of a verb, and corresponds to a silent DP that
could be recovered from a situational or linguistic context.
This construction has been the topic of various studies since the 1980s, in the Principles
and Parameters framework. The issue emerged in the discussion of empty categories and the
Null Subject Parameter, from the observation that some languages allow the complement of
transitive verbs to be phonologically null. The seminal work on Null‐Obj was published by
Huang (1984). It focuses on Chinese, a language that allows both subjects and objects to be
null. In Chinese, null subjects can be pronominal or variables, but null objects are variables
bound by a discourse topic.
Following that work, Null‐Obj has been discussed in many languages, among them, EP
(Raposo 1986, 2004, Duarte 1987, Duarte and Costa 2013), and BP (Galves 1989; Farrell 1990;
Kato 1993; Cyrino 1997). Many kinds of omitted direct objects received attention in the
­literature, namely:
Deitic and situational Null‐Obj: the referent of the null object is recovered from the situa-
tional context:
(1) Envie__ por correio.
send  by mail
“Send this/that by mail.”
Null Objects and VP Ellipsis
in European and Brazilian
Portuguese
Sonia Cyrino and Gabriela Matos
16
Null Objects and VP Ellipsis in European and Brazilian Portuguese  295
(2) [Situation: Someone sees a famous star in a restaurant and makes the comment:]
Eu viu __ na TV ontem.
I saw on.the TV yesterday
“I saw him on TV yesterday.”
Cognate Null‐Obj: the null object refers to an object easily recovered from the lexical
content of the verb:
(3) Durante as minhas  férias,   quero  sobretudo  ler__.
during  the my  vacation  want  mainly   read
“During my vacation, I mainly want to read.”
Arbitrary Null‐Obj, where the missing object is understood as part of the lexical meaning
of some verbs:
(4) Isto leva à seguinte conclusão.
this leads to‐the following conclusion
“This leads (us/people) to the following conclusion.”
Anaphoric Null‐Obj: the null object has a linguistic antecedent.
(5) Ele comprou o casaco sem experimentar__.
he bought the coat without try
“He bought the coat without trying (it) on.”
As shown in the examples (1) to (5), Portuguese allows different types of Null‐Obj. In
this work we will focus on definite anaphoric and situational null objects, i.e., the cases in
(2) and (5).
VP ellipsis (henceforth, VPE) designates the lack of the phonological expression that
includes the verbal complement of a verb or verbal sequence and optionally its adjunct(s).
Early analyses on VP ellipsis focused on English. In this language VP ellipsis only occurs
with auxiliary verbs, the infinitival marker to and the copulative verb “to be”:
(6) Mary loves Peter and Ann does __, too.
(7) Mary wants to buy an encyclopedia and I also want to __.
(8) a. who is the best basketball player in the neighborhood?
b. John is __.
The study of predicate ellipsis has been extended to other languages, and a different
strategy of VP ellipsis has been put forth, where the elliptical VP is licensed by a main verb.
Goldberg (2005) called this “verb stranding VPE.” Raposo (1986) was the first to claim the
existence of this strategy in EP.
(9) a. A empregada colocou os livros na estante?
the housemaid put the books on‐the shelf
“Did the housemaid put the books on the shelf?”
b. Sim, colocou __.
Yes, put
Yes, she did.
296  Sonia Cyrino and Gabriela Matos
Within the Principles and Parameters framework, VPE analyses mainly focused on the
licensing condition(s) on the elliptical constituent and the recovering strategy of ellipsis.
We will retain these topics in the study of VPE in EP and BP.
2.  Null‐Obj in EP and BP
The recurring issues on Null‐Obj in EP and BP are the determination of the omitted
constituent and the [± animacy] status of its antecedent.
2.1.  The nature of the empty category
Null‐Obj was first characterized for EP by Raposo (1986). He showed that the content of the
object gap could be recovered by the pragmatic (10a) or the linguistic (10b) context, and
denoted entities with specific definite content, as attested by their capacity to alternate with
definite clitic pronouns (11):
(10) a. A Joana viu _  na TV  ontem. (EP)
the Joana saw _  on-the TV yesterday
“Joana saw (it/him/her/them) on TV yesterday.”
b. A   Maria  pegou  nos   livros  e   guardou _  cuidadosamente  na
the Maria 
pick up in‐the books and put    
carefully    
in‐the
estante.
shelf
“Maria pick up the books and carefully put (them) on the shelf.”
(11) a. A Joana viu‐o(s)/a(s)	 na	 TV	 ontem.	(EP)
the Joana saw‐cl.3‐masc/fem‐sg/pl	on‐the	TV	yesterday
“Joana saw them on TV yesterday.”
b. A Maria pegou nos livros e guardou‐os cuidadosamente na
the Maria pick up in‐the books and put‐cl‐3pl carefully in‐the
estante.
shelf
“Mary pick up the books and carefully put them in the shelf.”
Raposo pointed out that the availability of definite Null‐Obj distinguishes EP from other
Romance languages, which require a definite overt pronoun (see (12) for Spanish and in (13)
for French):
(12) Maria *(los) vio en la tele ayer.
Maria (cl.3‐pl) saw on the TV yesterday
“Maria saw them on TV yesterday.”
(13) Marie *(les) a vu à la télé hier.
Marie (cl.3‐pl) has seen on the TV yesterday
“Marie has seen them on TV yesterday.”
Raposo remarked that Null‐Obj in EP and Chinese behave alike. In both languages they
may be pragmatic controlled (10a) and the object gap functions as a variable. Thus, following
Null Objects and VP Ellipsis in European and Brazilian Portuguese  297
Huang (1984), he assumes that Null‐Obj in EP involves a Topic position, whose meaning is
recovered from the situational context:
(14) [Top ‐ ] [a Joana viu _ na TV ontem]
He also presents evidence that the omitted object is an Aʹ‐bound variable, contrasting
the examples (15) and (16). In (15a) the object gap inside the embedded sentence may not
co‐refer with the subject of the embedding clause, in contrast with an overt pronoun in
object position (15b). As shown in (16), the omitted object in Null‐Obj behaves like a vari-
able resulting from wh‐movement—in both cases there is as a strong crossover violation, i.e.,
a Principle C effect, since the variable must be free within the scope domain of its Aʹ‐binder,
the null operator in (15a), quem “who,” in (16):
(15) a. *Elei
	 pensa	 que	 eu	 recomendei_i
	 ao	 professor.(EP)
he	 thinks	 that	 I	 recommended	 to‐the	 professor
b. Ele pensa que eu o recomendei ao professor.(EP)
he thinks that I cl‐masc‐3‐sg recommended to‐the professor.
“He thinks that I recommended him to the professor.”
(16) *Quemi
é que elei
pensa que eu recomendei __i
ao professor?
who is_that he thinks that I recommended to‐the professor
“Who does he thinks that I recommended to the professor.”
However, departing from Huang, who directly relates the variable to the “zero topic,”
Raposo assumes that the null operator arises from movement of the omitted object to
Comp in syntax. A rule of predication would relate Top and the null operator in Comp,
establishing its content in a latter level of representation, sensitive to discourse/pragmatic
information:
(17) [Top ‐ ]p
[[C
OPi
‐]p
[a Joana viu_i
na TV ontem ]]
Raposo also shows that Null‐Obj in EP involves Aʹ‐Movement in overt syntax, since it is
excluded from islands, namely from the Complex‐NP (18), the Sentential Subject (19) and the
Sentential Adjunct (20):
(18) a. O	 rapaz	 trouxe__	 agora	 mesmo	 da	 pastelaria.	(EP)
the	 boy	 brought	 right	 now	 from-the	 pastry shop.
b. *O rapaz que trouxe__ agora	 mesmo	 da	 pastelaria era o
the boy who brought right	 now	 from‐the	 pastry shop was the
teu	 afilhado.	(EP)
your	godson
(19) [context: talking about a new personal computer]
*Que a IBM venda__ a particulares supreende‐me. (EP)
that the IBM sell.subjunctive to private people surprises‐cl.acc‐1‐sg
(20) [context: talking about a treasure map] (EP)
*O pirata partiu para as Caraíbas depois de ter guardado__ no cofre.
the pirate left to the Caraíbas after of has kept in‐the safe
298  Sonia Cyrino and Gabriela Matos
Also, like other syntactic Aʹ‐movement variables, the object gap in EP may license parasitic
gaps in adjunct adverbial sentences occurring after the Null‐Obj clause. As shown in (21),
the parasitic gap in this example is as acceptable as the anaphoric null object in (5), above:
(21) Arrumei__ na estante sem sequer ler__pg
. (EP)
put in-the shelf without even read
Since this analysis captures the core behavior of Null‐Obj in EP, for the most part, it has
been kept in later work, which mainly discussed the initial nature of the object gap and its
final landing site in this language variety.
Raposo (1986) imputes the need of object movement to the original nature of the null
object, which he claims to be PRO, a category that may not be governed. Thus, PRO must
raise from object position to Comp, a non‐thematic position. Assuming the configuration
(17), Raposo abandons Huang’s (1984) parametric criterion to distinguish languages with
and without Null‐Obj. According to Huang, discourse‐oriented languages, like Chinese,
accept a null R‐expression Aʹ‐bound by a null topic, but sentence‐oriented languages, like
English, do not. For Raposo, the parametric variation between these types of languages relies
on the application of the Predication rule: in Chinese and EP this rule may apply to a
pragmatic topic, in English, French, or Spanish it cannot.
Duarte (1987) casts doubts on the derivational change of the null category, and proposes
that it should be basically generated as a variable. She closely relates Null‐Obj in EP to
Topicalization, a specific topic construction that Aʹ‐moves a constituent that binds a variable:
(22) Esse jogo, a Joana viu__ na TV ontem. (EP)
that match the Joana saw on-the TV yesterday
“That match, Joana saw (it) on TV yesterday.”
Accepting that topicalization in EP involves adjunction to CP or IP, she presents an
alternative configuration for Null‐Obj, where the null topic in Aʹ‐position is included within
the Comp domain:
(23) [CP
[Top
‐ ] [IP
a Joana viu _ na TV ontem] ]
Accordingly, Duarte reviews Raposo’s (1986) formulation of the Null‐Obj parameter and
reformulates it in terms much closer to those of Huang (1984):
(24) The content of a null (or overt) syntactic operator may/or may not be set in LFʹ by an
element of the discursive or situational context.
In turn, Raposo (2004) reexamines his previous analysis and relates Null‐Obj in EP to
Clitic Left Dislocation (CLLD), (25). He claims that the object gap is merged as a DP with a
null definite determiner that selects [NP
pro], (26):
(25) Esse livro, eu só o encontrei na FNAC. (EP)
that book I only cl‐masc‐3‐sg found in‐the FNAC
“That book, I only found it at FNAC.”
(26) a. Eu só encontrei _ na FNAC.(EP)
I only found   in‐the FNAC
“I only found it at FNAC.”
b. Eu só encontrei [DP
ødef
[NP
pro]] na FNAC
Null Objects and VP Ellipsis in European and Brazilian Portuguese  299
Raposo argues that in the context of a definite null Det, pro is not adequately identified
because vi lacks number and gender features. To be recovered, pro has to move to a ­
position
as close as possible of i-s antecedent, a topic or an argument in A‐position. He claims that pro
adjoins to the head F, a functional category in the sentence left periphery that codifies the
interplay between LF with the semantic, discursive and pragmatic systems. In that position
pro acts as an operator that Aʹ‐binds and identifies its copy, represented as “t” in (27):
(27) (esse livro), [FP
pro F [TP
eu só encontrei [DP D
ø [NP
t]] na FNAC.
Raposo’s (2004) analysis allows him to assume that there is no change in the nature of the
null category during the derivation, while maintaining the core ideas of his original pro-
posal: the characterization of the object gap as a variable resulting from Aʹ‐Movement in
syntax, and the indirect relation between the null operator (pro in F) and the Topic in CLLD.
However, this CLLD approach is challenged by himself, since he denies the possibility of
considering the D heading the null object DP as a clitic, given its lack of phonological
features.
Turning now to BP, within the Government and Binding framework, Farrell (1990), Galves
(1989) and Kato (1993) proposed pro for the empty category occurring in Null‐Obj, based on
the fact that this construction may appear in islands in BP, as shown by the acceptability of
(28) in PB in contrast with its marginality in EP (cf. (18b)–(20)):
(28) a. O  rapaz  que  trouxe__  
agora mesmo  da   pastelaria  era  o  teu
the boy that brought  now just    
of‐the pastry shop was the your
afilhado.	(BP)
godson
“The boy that brought (it) just now from the pastry shop was your godson.”
b. O pirata partiu para as Caraíbas depois de ter guardado ___
the pirate left to the Caraibas after of have kept
cuidadosamente	 no	 cofre.	(BP)
carefully	 in‐the	safe.
“The pirate left for the Caraibas after having kept (it) carefully in the safe.”
Additionally, Farrell (1990) rejects the variable status of null object in BP because some
sentences, which are unacceptable in some contexts and would be analyzed as Principle C
effects (29a, c), become acceptable in other contexts (29b):
(29) a. *Elei
	 disse	 que	 Maria	 não	 beijou	___i
(BP)
He	 said	 that	Maria	not	kissed
“Hei
said that Maria didn’t kiss (himi
).”
b. Todo mundo disse que Maria beijou Pedroi
depois do baile.
All world said that Maria kissed Pedro after of‐the dance.
Mas	 elei
	 disse	 que	 Maria	 não	 beijou ___i.
(BP)
But	 he	 said	 that	Maria	not	kissed
“Everybody said that Maria kissed Pedroi
after the dance. But hei
said that Maria
didn’t kiss (himi
).”
c. OPi
	 elei
	 disse	 que	 Maria	 não	 beijou ___i
.(BP)
	 he	 said	that	Maria	not	kissed.
To account for the marginality of (29a), he claims that the antecedent of a null object in a
complement clause cannot be the subject of the matrix sentence, but he assumes that this is
300  Sonia Cyrino and Gabriela Matos
possible in adjunct clauses in BP, on the basis of examples like (30a), which are rejected by
several BP native speakers, unless they occur in an adequate discourse context (31b):
(30) a. (*)A Júliai
sempre chora quando ponho ___i
no    berço (BP)
the Júlia always cries when put in‐the cradle.
“Juliai
always cries when (I) put (heri
) in the cradle.”
b. Eu	 sempre	 ponho	 meus	 filhos	 no	 berço	 sem	 problemas. (BP)
I	 always	put‐1‐sg	 my	 children	 in‐the	 cradle	 without	 problems.
Mas	 a	 Júliai
	 sempre	 chora	 quando	 ponho	___i
no	 berço.(BP)
But	 the	Júlia	always	cries	when	 put	 in‐the	cradle.
“I always put my children in the cradle with no problems. But Juliai
always cries
when (I) put (heri
) in the cradle.”
However, there is some disagreement regarding the licensing and identification of pro
among the analyses that take this category as null object in BP.
Farrell (1990) considers that the omitted object is formally licensed by INFL or V, and
intrinsically specified as 3rd person. But Kato (1993) remarks that, then, BP would have one
kind of pro for subjects and another for objects.
Galves (1989) assumes that the object pro is a base‐generated empty category bound to an
external subject in BP, being a simultaneously free and bound empty category. In later work
she claims that the object pro is licensed by V and identified by a pro in Spec‐Agr, leaving,
however unexplained the unacceptability of (29a), (30a).
Kato (1993) proposes that the null object in BP is an instance of pro which is identified as
3rd person and licensed by a null clitic, whose antecedent is always in an anti‐c‐command
position.
Barra‐Ferreira (2000) conceives the null object in BP as a pro without Case features, which
is Aʹ‐bound by a null topic. According to him, sentences with topicalized elements may be
obtained through movement to Top, or result from the insertion of a caseless pro. Thus the
object position in (31) is ambiguous between a trace or a caseless pro:
(31) Esse livroi
, a Maria conhece o cara que escreveu ___i
. (BP)
This book the Maria know the guy that wrote
“This book, Maria knows the person who wrote (it).”
Since traces of movement are excluded from islands, a sentence like (32) could only con-
tain a pro in object position. It should be grammatical in BP, but marginal in EP, which is, in
fact, considered degraded by most EP native speakers:
(32) Esse livroi
, eu ainda não consegui um aluno que lesse proi
. (BP/*EP)
that book I still   not got a student that read
“This booki
, I still haven’t got a student that read (iti
).”
Still, the proposal for the null object in BP as a pro is not uncontroversial, and does not
explain why pro behaves differently from an overt an pronoun in sentences like (33):
(33) O Pedroi
disse que ela não beijou {*__i
/√
elei
}. (BP)
the Pedro said that she not kissed__/him
“Pedroi
said that she didn’t kiss (himi
).”
Null Objects and VP Ellipsis in European and Brazilian Portuguese  301
Furthermore, the null object cannot be pro, because it differs from pro in accepting
both strict and sloppy readings:
(34) De noite, João abriu a janela, mas Pedro preferiu  fechar__. (BP)
At night João opened the window but Pedro preferred to‐close
“At night, João opened the window, but Pedro preferred to close it.”
__= João’s window (strict reading)
__= Pedro’s window (sloppy reading)
Cyrino (1997) presents a different proposal. She claims that the null object in BP is the
result of DP ellipsis, due to a diachronic process that related propositional ellipsis to the
demise of 3rd person clitics in the language.
The proposal that the null object in BP is an instance of DP ellipsis is backed up by two
facts that point to a similarity with the propositional ellipsis: the null object in BP requires an
[‐animate] antecedent and allows strict/sloppy readings.
2.2.  Animacy restrictions on Null‐Obj antecedent
Within the Principles and Parameters framework, several authors correlated the fact that the
null object preferably has a [‐animate] antecedent with the nature of the null object.
Contrasting sentences like (35) with (36), Bianchi and Figueiredo (1994) propose to split
the analysis for the empty category into two, variables and pro, according to whether the
antecedent is [+animate] or [‐animate]:
(35) a. *O	 Joséi
	 impediu	 a	 esposa	 de	 matar ___i
(BP)
the	 José	prevented	the	wife	 of	kill
“Joséi
prevented his wife from killing (himi
).”
b. *O Joséi
  sabe que a Maria gostaria de conhecer ___i
the José knows that the Maria likes of know
“Joséi
knows that Maria would like to meet (himi
).”
(36) a. Esse tipo	 de	 garrafai
impede	 as	 crianças	 de	 abrirem ___i
	 sozinhas.(BP)
this kind	 of	 bottle prevents	 the	 children	 of	 open	 alone.
“This kind of bottle prevents children from opening (it) by themselves.”
b. Esse pratoi
exige que o cozinheiro acabe de preparar ___i
na mesa.(BP)
this dish requires that the cook finish of prepare in‐the table.
“This dish requires that the cook finishes to prepare (it) at table.”
For the [+animate] antecedent, the null object would be a variable, thus, not permitted in
islands, (37); for the [–animate] antecedent, it would be a pro, hence allowed in island
domains, (38)
(37) *O Joséi
conheceu a mulher que beijou ___k
. (BP)
the José knew the woman that kissed
“Joséi
knew the woman who kissed (himk
).”
(38) O Joséi
conheceu a mulher que comprou __k
. (BP)
the José knew the woman that bought.
“Joséi
knew the woman who bought (it).”
302  Sonia Cyrino and Gabriela Matos
Cyrino (1997) remarks that the fact that the null object in BP has an [–animate] antecedent
cannot be captured by the variable/pro analysis. In fact, sentence (39b), with a null object and
an overt pronoun, shows that the only interpretation for the null object is the non‐animate
antecedent, o rosto dele “his face,” while the overt pronoun may refer back either to o rosto dele
or to meu pai, the latter an [+animate] antecedent:
(39) a. Eu nunca vejo o [meu pai]i
. Nem   
me lembro  d[o    rosto  dele]j
.(BP)
I never see the my father not‐even me remember of‐the face   of-his
b. Acho	 que	 já	 esqueci {___i
/elei
.}(BP)
think	 that	 already	 forgot {__/him/it}
“I never see my father. I don’t even remember his face. I think I forgot (it)/him/it.”
In order to explain the animacy restrictions in null objects (and full pronouns), Cyrino,
Duarte, and Kato (2000) propose a Referentiality hierarchy, which stated that if a language
has an empty category for a certain element, it will also have this empty category for other
elements which are lower in referentiality.
(40) Referentiality hierarchy
non‐arguments propositions [–animate] [+animate]
3rd person  2nd person  1st person
[–specific] [+specific]
[–referential] ‹— - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - —› [+referential]
This hierarchy proposes that referentiality is highly relevant in pronominalization in sev-
eral languages. Thus, [+N, +human] arguments are in the highest position in the hierarchy,
and non‐arguments, in the lowest. Regarding pronouns, the speaker (= I) and the hearer
(= you), being inherently humans, are in the highest and the third person that refers to a
proposition is in lowest, with the [‐human] entity in the middle. The [± specific] features
interact with all these features. Languages will vary in the spell out of the pronouns.
For the object, specifically, the authors predicted that if the input exhibits a pronoun or a
clitic in a lower position of the hierarchy, the child in the acquisition process will consider it
a weak pronoun in either a head or an argument position, and, therefore, all the higher posi-
tions will also be lexical pronouns or clitics (e.g. English, EP). However, if the input shows a
null object for a referential entity, say, for a [–animate] entity as in BP, the child assumes that
all lower positions can be null. Thus, for a language that has the internal option for full or
empty categories, one of the factors that can influence the choice is the animacy status of the
antecedent.
The referential hierarchy elucidates why the pronoun ele, which is used for [+animate]
antecedents and sometimes also for [–animate] antecedents, is never used for propositional
antecedents.
As for EP, Raposo (2004) claims that the animacy restrictions are not clear in this language,
based on his acceptability judgments for the following sentences, which exhibit a null object
with an [+animate] antecedent (41), and an [–animate] antecedent (42)
(41) a. ??O   
polícia   
que agrediu  [esse preso]i
  levou __i
para o hospital. (EP)
 
 
the 
cop   
that 
hit    
that prisoner took  to the hospital
b. ?O  polícia que agrediu[esse preso]i
  acha   que é   melhor levar __i
para o   hospital(EP)
  the cop   that hit   that prisoner thinks that is better to-take  to  the hospital
“The cop that hit that prisoner thinks that it is better to take him to the hospital.”
Null Objects and VP Ellipsis in European and Brazilian Portuguese  303
(42) a. ??O  aluno    que   tem  [o  teu  artigo]i
em   casa      devolve __i
  ainda   hoje.(EP)
  the student that keeps the your paper  at   home brings back still  today
b. O  aluno   que  
tem    [o  teu  artigo]i
  em  casa   decidiu   que    ia
the student that keeps   
the your paper  at   
home decided that will
devolver __i
  ainda hoje.(EP)
bring back still   
today
“The student that keeps your paper at home decided that he will bring it
back still today.”
For him, (41a)–(42a) are both unacceptable because the Aʹ‐operator (pro in Comp)
c‐commands the antecedent that identifies it, since it moves to FP in the root sentence, (43).
This does not happen in (41b)–(42b), since pro occurs in the FP of the embedded clause, (44):
(43) [FP
pro F [TP
[O aluno que tem o teu artigo em casa] [devolve [DP
D pro ] ainda hoje]]]
(44) [TP
O aluno que tem o teu artigo em casa decidiu [CP
que [FP
pro F [TP
ia devolver
[DP
D pro] ainda hoje]] ]
However, many EP native speakers consider all the examples in (41)–(42) degraded inde-
pendently of the animacy effects, which suggests the null operator always raises to the root
sentence in EP.
Duarte and Costa (2013) reconsider the animacy effect in EP, and remark that when the ante-
cedent and the omitted object occur in the same sentence, an animacy restriction appears:
(45) ??Quando encontro o Pedroi
, beijo __i
com ternura. (EP)
when find the Pedro, kiss tenderly
“When I find Pedro, I kiss him tenderly.”
(46) Quando encontro uma gralhai
, corrijo __i
imediatamente. (EP)
when find a flaw, correct immediately
“When I find a flaw, I correct it immediately.”
However, when the referent is recovered from the situational context or has an antecedent
external to the null object sentence, no animacy effect occurs:
(47) [Context: the speaker asks, looking at a picture of a boy on the hearer´s desk]
Conheceste__	 na	 Itália?(EP)
know	 in-the	Italy
“Did you know him in Italy?”
(48) a. E  
a  
Ana?(EP)
and the Ana
“What about Ana?”
b. Encontrei__ ontem no concerto.
Met yesterday in‐the concert
“I met her in the concert yesterday.”
304  Sonia Cyrino and Gabriela Matos
These authors also notice that the information recovered by the null object must be acces-
sible in the situational or linguistic discourse, as illustrated by the following contrast:
(49) a. O	 Pedro	 tirou	 os	 óculosi
	 e	 guardou__i
	 na	 gaveta.	(EP)
the	 Pedro	 took off	 the	 glasses	 and	 kept	 in‐the	 drawer
“Pedro took off the glasses and kept them in the drawer.”
b. *O	 Pedro	 tirou	 os	 óculosi
.	 Ligou	 a	 TV	 e	 guardou__i
the	 Pedro	 took off	 the	 glasses.	 Turned on	 the	 TV	 and	 kept
na	 gaveta.(EP)
in‐the	drawer
Duarte and Costa relate this behavior to the need of the omitted object to be recovered by
a null topic whose content is established by the prominent linguistic or situational context.
In sum, in Null‐Obj in EP and BP, the object gap corresponds to two different categories.
In EP it is a variable an Aʹ‐bound by a null constituent in Topic position. As for BP, although
most researchers have characterized it as pro, it presents some properties that suggest that it
should be conceived as an elided DP.
Both BP and EP present animacy restriction on null object antecedents, partially related to
a referential hierarchy of overt and null pronouns. Yet, these restrictions disappear when
the [+animate] antecedent occurs in the previous situational context or in the immediately
precedent linguistic discourse.
3.  VP ellipsis in EP and BP
Since the 1980s, VPE in EP has been extensively studied, and the properties that this
construction displays in EP and BP carefully analyzed. In the literature on VPE in Portuguese
(as for English) the main issues focused upon have been: the empirical domain of VPE; the
categorial status of the gap; the ellipsis strategy and the licensing condition of the elliptical
VP; and the structural conditions on the linguistic antecedent that legitimate the ellipsis. In
this work we will mainly focus on the first three issues, since the last one is not specific to
VPE and occurs in other kinds of ellipsis and anaphora (for an overview of this subject in EP,
see Matos 1992, chapter 2).
EP and BP share the main features that characterize this construction. However, when the
licensing of VPE is done by verbal sequences, there are divergences that result from
independent factors in each of these language varieties. This fact is crucial to establish in a
principled way an account for this construction in both varieties.
3.1.  VPE, Null‐Obj and NCA
Raposo (1986) was the first to mention the existence in EP of a construction akin to English
VPE but involving main verbs. This construction differs from Null‐VP by omitting all the
complements of the verb (65b(i)), and optionally the VP modifiers (Matos 1992), (65b(ii)):
(50) a. Os miúdos	 puseram	 os	 brinquedos	 na	 caixa	 antes	 do	 jantar?
the kids	 put	 the	 toys	 inside‐the	 box	 before	 of‐the	 dinner?
b. (i) Puseram__.
put
“Yes, they did.”
b. (ii) Puseram__ apenas depois do jantar.
Put just after of‐the dinner
“Yes, they did, just after dinner.”
Null Objects and VP Ellipsis in European and Brazilian Portuguese  305
Raposo remarks that this construction differs from Null‐Obj in not recovering an ante-
cedent from a situational context: (50b(i)) is pragmatically anomalous without the linguistic
antecedent in (50a):
(51) [situation: The kinds are putting their toys inside a box. Someone entering the room
says]:
#Puseram__.
(they) put.
He notices that VPE in EP is not sensitive to islands, as shown in (67), where the omitted
material occurs inside a Complex DP with a relative clause.
(52) A Maria entregou o dinheiro ao Manel, mas eu sei
the Maria gave the money to the Manel, but I know
de	 algumas	 pessoas	 que	 nunca	 teriam	 entregue__.
of	some	 people	that	never	have‐condit‐3pl	given
“Maria gave the money to Manel, but I know some people that would
never have given.”
However, the distinction between V‐stranding VPE and Null‐Obj is not always easy to
establish. In fact, the island criterion is not available for BP, where Null‐OBJ is insensitive to
islands. Furthermore, as Raposo mentions, when the main verb only selects a direct object,
the sentences are ambiguous between the two constructions:
(53) a. Quem é que viu o filme?
who is that saw the movie
b. O  Manel viu__.
the Manel saw
Interpretations:	 (i) “Manel did.”
	 (ii)  “Manel saw it.”
Accepting Raposo’s proposals, Matos (1992) developed an analysis of for EP and pre-
sented additional facts that differentiate these constructions. She remarks that VPE in EP
may be licensed not only by main verbs (50)–(53), but also by auxiliaries (which are obvi-
ously excluded from Null‐Obj), as illustrated in (69b) and (70), where the perfect tense and
the passive auxiliaries occur:
(54) a. As crianças têm estado a estudar?
the children have been to study
“Have the children been studying?”
b. Sim,	 têm __.
“Yes, (they)	 have.”
(55) As revistas não foram guardadas na estante, mas os livros
the journals not were stored in‐the shelf, but the books
já	 foram__
already	were
“The journals have not been stored in the shelf, but the books have been, already.”
She additionally notices that the verbal identifier of the omitted material in VPE is subject
to a lexical parallelism condition with some verb in the antecedent, (56)–(57b), a constraint
not required in Null‐Obj, (58):
(56) Eu pus os óculos na mesa quando ela também pôs__ /*colocou_.
I put the glasses on‐the table when she also   put /placed
“I put the glasses on the table when she did, too.”
306  Sonia Cyrino and Gabriela Matos
(57) a. Não sei se hei‐de comprar esta gramática.
not know if should buy this grammar
“I don’t know if I should buy this grammar.”
b: Claro que	{hás‐de__! /*tens__!}
of course	 should  /has to
“Of course you should!”
(58) Ela tirou o anel do dedo e guardou__ no cofre.
she took the ring of‐the finger and put   in‐the safe
“She took off the ring from her finger and put it in the safe.”
Matos distinguishes V‐stranding VPE from Null Complement Anaphora (henceforth NCA),
a construction that involves the omission of a sentential complement of the main verb, e.g.
aprovar “approve,” (59a), and also occurs with restructuring verbs like querer “want,” dever
“ought,” poder “be able to,” the last two usually translated by the auxiliaries shall, can/may
in English, (59b).
(59) a. Ele lê o jornal todos os dias e eu aprovo__.
he reads the newspaper every day and I approve__
“He reads the newspaper every day, and I approve.”
b. Ele	 não lê	 o	 jornal,	 embora	 devesse__.
he	 not reads	 the	 newspaper	 although	 ought__
“He does not read the newspaper, although he should.”
As Null‐Obj, NCA does not require parallelism between the verb identifying the omitted
complement and a verbal antecedent (59a); as VPE, it is not sensitive to island contexts (59b).
Yet, as expected, when the antecedent and clause with the complement gap exhibit the same
verb, the sentences are ambiguous between NCA and VPE.
This characterization of VPE and NCA has been accepted in several works, and devel-
oped to account for EP and BP (see Matos and Cyrino 2001, Cyrino and Matos 2002, 2005, for
VPE; Cyrino and Matos 2006, Gonçalves and Matos 2009, for NCA).
3.2.  The parallelism requirement
Matos (1992) remarks that VPE in EP requires that the verb adjacent to the gap, indepen-
dently of being an auxiliary or a main verb, be identical to a verb in the antecedent. Thus,
(60a) is unacceptable, because in the antecedent only occurs the main verb, but the elliptical
VP is locally identified by an auxiliary. In contrast, (60b) is well‐formed, since the auxiliary
appears in the antecedent and the elliptical sentence. The same lexical parallelism occurs in
(60c), where the main verb occurs in both sentences.
(60) a. *Eu	 não	 compreendi	 a	 situação,	 mas	 ele	 já	 tinha_	 há muito.
 I	 not	 understood	 the	 situation,	 but	 he	 already	 had	 since long
“I did not understand the situation, but he already had since long.”
b. Eu  não  tinha  compreendido  a  situação,  
mas  ele  já   tinha__há muito.
I  not  had  understood  the   situation,    but   he  already   had  since long
c. Eu	 não	 compreendi	 a	 situação	 imediatamente,	 mas	 ele	 compreendeu _.
I	 not	understood	the	situation	immediately,	 but	 he	understood
“I did not understand the situation immediately, but he did.”
Null Objects and VP Ellipsis in European and Brazilian Portuguese  307
This parallelism requirement becomes understandable when we consider that in
Portuguese both auxiliary and main verbs raise out of the verbal phrase to a functional
category, T, according to Matos (1992). Thus, in VPE the copy of the moved constituent is
part of the ellipsis, as illustrated in (61) for (60b, c). In these representations “t” stands for
the copy of the moved elements and the base‐merged elliptical constituents are struck
through.
(61) a. …mas [TP
elei
[T
tinhaj
] [VPaux
ti
[vP
tj
compreendido [há muito] ]
b. …mas [TP
elei
[T
compreendeuj
] [vP
ti
tj
comprendeu [imediatamente] ]
Accepting this analysis, we assume that VPE corresponds to an elliptical constituent with
internal structure, and requires a lexical and structural identity condition for the recovering
of the omitted vP/VP.
Still, Santos (2009), restricting her analysis to EP and focusing on main verbs, questions
this verbal parallelism on VPE. She denies the NCA status of the omitted constituent selected
by complementation restructuring verbs, like dever and poder, and takes (62) as a case of VPE.
In doing so she excludes (the copy of) v from the elliptical constituent, implicitly assuming
that VPE is not a verbal projection, but a CP/TP gap, the complement of the verb.
(62) Ela podia ver filmes do César Monteiro e tu também devias.
she could see movies of‐the César Monteiro and you also should
Santos also claims that two different non‐complementation main verbs may occur in VPE,
if they present an identical subcategorization frame:
(63) O João vendeu livros à Teresa ontem e a Ana ofereceu
the João sold books to‐the Teresa yesterday and the Ana offered
[livros	 à	 Teresa	 ontem]
books	to‐the	Teresa	yesterday
“João sold books to Teresa yesterday and Anna offered them.”
Yet, (63) is not an instance of VPE. As the author’s translation of this example reveals, only
the direct object is recovered. This suggests that in some way (63) involves Null‐Obj.
Corroborating this hypothesis, these examples become degraded in EP, when they occur in
islands:
(64) ??/*Ele ofereceu livros aos amigos ontem porque ninguém vendeu__
  he offered books to‐the friends yesterday because nobody sold
This proposal is also supported by Costa and Duarte (2003), who extended de notion of null
object to the all range of complements of the verb.
Additionally, Santos (2009) takes examples like (65), where the main verb plus the direct
object are overt and some other complement is missing, as VPE, by claiming that they may
occur in islands in EP:
(65) A Ana entregou as chaves ao porteiro quando a irmã entregou
the Ana gave the keys to‐the porter when the sister gave
o	 carro_.
the	car
“Ana gave the keys to the porter when her sister gave him the car.”
308  Sonia Cyrino and Gabriela Matos
Once again, the author’s English translation of this example shows that a VPE interpretation
is unavailable. Furthermore, this proposal is problematic, since it presupposes that the verb
and the direct object form a complex verbal unit (a sort of light verb structure) able to locally
identify the alleged elliptical verbal phrase, only constituted by the indirect object, complement
of the verb.
Adopting these assumptions, Santos is unable to account for the contrasts in acceptability
of (56), (57b) and (60a), and loses a unified explanation of VPE in languages like Portuguese.
So, in the current work we will stick to the traditional view that the local identifier of VPE is
a verbal element. We also accept that a parallelism requirement on the verbal licensor of the
ellipsisregardingitsantecedentmustbesatisfiedinaV‐strandingVPElanguage,likePortuguese.
3.3.  Identity condition on ellipsis and licensing of VPE
Assuming a derivational approach of grammar, the most plausible way to account for the
internal structure of VPE is to assume that deletion has applied to a structure fully filled with
lexical items. However, these may be conceived as feature bundles that must not be spelt out
at the phonological interface level, in contrast with the non‐elliptical constituents.
Thus, independently of adopting a deletion or an interpretative approach of ellipsis the
same core properties must be met: the elliptical constituents to be deleted/interpreted must
be recovered on the basis of the lexical and structural material of the antecedent.
As mentioned by several authors, the identity requirements on ellipsis must be better
understood as a condition of lexical and structural non‐distinctiveness. In fact, local restric-
tions imposed by the overt elements in the elliptical sentence may override strict identity.
Thus, as shown in Matos (1992), there is no need of morphological coincidence in the mood
or tense of the verb forms of the local identifier of VPE and its antecedent.
(66) Nós temos posto o carro na garagem, embora ele ainda não
we have put‐indicative the car in‐the garage, although he yet not
tenha__.
have‐subjunctive
“We have put the car in the garage, although he has not, yet.”
(67) O  João  tem      comido  demasiado  e   a  Ana  disse  que  (ela)
the João 
have‐prs‐3‐sg eaten  too much and the Ana said that she
também tinha__
also have‐past.
“João has been eating too much and Ana said that she did too.”
In addition to the semantic and structural non‐distinctiveness between VPE and its ante-
cedent, it has been recognized that VPE is subject to a syntactic licensing condition. The
contrasts in English between a VPE sentence in (68a) and the ungrammatical sequence with
a main verb in (68b), shows that a necessary condition for VPE is that the licensing verb
moves out the verbal phrase to a sentence functional projection:
(68) a. John was reading this book and Mary was__, too.
b. *John started reading this book and Mary started__ too.
In fact, as is well known, the predicative main verbs in current English do not move out
of the verbal phrase. The availability of VPE with main verbs in languages like EP, with gen-
eralized verb movement, is consistent with that licensing condition.
Although there is some consensus that the verbal licensor of VPE must occur in a
functional category c‐commanding vP/VP, divergent proposals have occasionally been
Null Objects and VP Ellipsis in European and Brazilian Portuguese  309
advanced. Thus, Rouveret (2012), apparently ignoring the contrasts in (68) for English,
claims that VPE across languages (including English and EP) is licensed by a verb heading
vP. For him, the difference between the languages with and without VPE relies on the fact
that only in the latter does the verb raise to Infl to complete its verbal morphology.
Even accepting that a verbal element must occur in a functional head to license VPE, the
nature of this functional category in Portuguese and the implementation of the licensing
strategy have varied, mostly in consequence of the adopted framework.
Working on late Government and Binding theory, Matos (1992), assumed that T was the
host of the VPE licensor, and, proposed a version of Rizzi’s (1986) Proper Head Government
as licensing principle:
(69) VPE is licensed by a head with verbal predicative or temporal value that properly
governs the elliptical VP.
Within the minimalist program, where government takes no place, alternative proposals
have arisen. In early minimalism, mainly focusing VPE with main verbs in EP, Martins (1994)
argues that the licensor of VPE is sigma (Σ), a functional category occurring above TP and
VP, proposed by I. Laka to account for sentence polarity and preverbal focus:
(70) [CP [ΣP [AgrSP [TP …[VP ]]]]]
According to Martins, the licensing and identification of VPE is achieved by movement of
the verb to Σ with strong‐V features, and checking of the (truth value) features of the null VP,
which raises to adjoin [Spec,ΣP] or ΣP. She also claims that there is a correlation between VPE
and enclisis: Romance languages with enclisis as unmarked pattern of clitic placement in
finite clauses present VPE, e.g. EP and Galician, as a consequence of V movement to Σ (encli-
sis would arise because the verb raises to Σ and the clitic stays in AgrS); in contrast, those
languages that systematically exhibit proclisis in finite clauses lack VPE, e.g. Spanish and
French, because the verb does not move to Σ.
Although attractive, this proposal is unable to account for VPE in EP in negative (71) and
embedded sentences (72), or both (73):
(71) a. As crianças têm estudado ultimamente?
the children have studied lately
“Have the children studied lately?”
b. Não, não	 têm__.
No, not	 have
“No, they haven’t.”
(72) A Ana não tem trabalhado muito embora diga que tem __.
the Ana not has worked hard although says that has
“Ana has not been working hard, although she says she has.”
(73) Tu tens estado a trabalhar muito ainda que digas que não tens ___.
You have been working too much although says that not has
“You did not work too much, although she says she did.”
For Martins (1994:183), in negative sentences in EP, Neg occupies Σ° and the verb stays in
AgrS; this would account for the clitic–verb order in these sentences in standard EP (74).
However, accepting this assumption, the author must admit that the licenser of the elided VP
in (71b) is AgrS. The same prediction for VPE (cf. (72) and (73)) arises from Martins’ analysis
310  Sonia Cyrino and Gabriela Matos
of embedded sentences: to account for proclisis in EP these domains, she claims that Σ raises
to C and the inflected verb occurs in AgrS (Martins 1994:202).
(74) a. As crianças não lhe telefonaram.
the children not him‐cl phoned
“The children did not phone.”
b. [ΣP
As crianças [Σ não] [AgrS
lhe[AgrS
telefonaram] …]
This analysis faces another problem. As shown by BP, where proclisis is the predominant
pattern, there is no direct correlation between VPE and enclisis, assuming, as usual, that in
this variety of Portuguese clitics have not yet been grammaticalized as prefixes of the verb.
Within the minimalist program, reconsidering previous work (Matos and Cyrino 2001,
Cyrino and Matos 2002, Cyrino and Matos 2005) propose that VPE is licensed in the following
configuration:
(75) In VPE the elliptical verbal predicate is licensed under local c‐command by the
lexically filled functional head with V‐features that merges with it.
The authors claim that the functional head differs in EP and BP and remark that (75) must
be complemented with other provisos to account for VPE across languages.
3.4.  VPE licensing in EP and BP
The main differences between EP and BP concern VPE with verbal sequences. In EP certain
verbal sequences easily allow a VPE interpretation, but others do not favor this reading.
In opposition, the VPE interpretation is always clearly preferred in BP.
Matos (1992) shows that in EP the auxiliary sequences in (76a)–(76b) and (77a)–(77b)
allow a full recovering of the VPE content:
(76) A	 Ana	 tem	 estado	 a	 comprar	 esses	 livros	 às	 crianças
the	Ana	has	been	 to	buy	 those	books	to‐the	children
“Ana has been buying those books to her children.”
a. e	 a	 Maria	 também	 tem__.(EP)
and	the	Maria	also	 has
“and Maria has, too.”
Reading: [ __=(has) been buying those books to the children]
b. e	 a	 Maria	 também	 tem	 estado ___.
and	the	Maria	also	 has	been (EP)
“and Maria has been, too.”
Reading: [ __= (been) buying those books to the children]
(77) As revistas não têm estado a ser arrumadas nas estantes pela
the journals not have been to be stored on‐the shelves by‐the
bibliotecária
librarian
“The journals have not been being stored on the shelves by the librarian.”
a.  mas os livros têm__.(EP)
  but the books have
  Reading: [__ (have) been being stored on the shelves by the librarian]
b.  mas os livros têm sido__.(EP)
  but the books have been
  Reading: [__(been) being stored on the shelves by the librarian]
Null Objects and VP Ellipsis in European and Brazilian Portuguese  311
But, when the verbal sequences include the main verb, the VPE reading is available or
lost, depending on the auxiliary: while with the perfect tense auxiliary verb, ter “have,”
the VPE interpretation is retained (cf. (78)), with the progressive auxiliary, estar –a – Vinf,
(79) or the passive auxiliary (80), the VPE reading is preferentially lost, despite the
fact  that it should be compelling when the main verb obligatorily requires its
complements:
(78) a. A  Ana tem  
lido  poemas aos   alunos     e   a  Maria   
também tem  
lido.
the Ana has read poems  
to-the students  and the Maria also     
has read
“Ana has read poems to her students and Maria has too.”
b. Este ano temos ido ao teatro regularmente porque a Maria
the Ana have gone to-the theatre regularly because the Maria
também	 tem ido. (EP)
also	 has gone
“This year we have gone to the theatre regularly because Maria has, too.”
c. Ela	 não tem	 posto	 as   suas economias	 nesse	 banco,	 mas têm amigos	 que
she	 not has	 put	 the her   savings	 in-that	 bank,	 but has friends	 that
têm	 posto.(EP)
has	put
“She has not put her savings in that bank, but she has some friends who did.”
(79) a. A Ana	 está	 a ler	 poemas	 aos	 alunos	 e	 a  Maria(EP)
the Ana	 is	 to read	 poems	 to‐the	 students	 and	 the Maria
também está a ler.
also is to read
(i) 
Preferred reading: “Ana is reading poems to her students and Maria is also
reading.”
(ii)  Unlikely reading: “Ana is reading poems to her students and Maria is too.”
b. ?? Este	 ano	 estamos	 a	 ir	 ao	 teatro	 regularmente	 porque	 a
 this	 year	 are	 to	 go	to-the	theatre	 regularly	 because	 the
Maria	 também	 está	 a	 ir.(EP)
Maria	also	 was	 to	 going
“This year we are going to the theatre regularly because Maria is (also going to the
theatre regularly.)
c. ? Ela	 não	 está	 a	 pôr	 as	 suas	 economias	 nesse	 banco,	 mas	 tem
 she	 not	 is	 to	 put	 the	 her	 savings	 in-that	 bank,	 but	 has
amigos	 que	 estão	 a pôr.(EP)
friend	 that	 are	 to put
“She is not putting her savings in that bank, but she has some friends that are
putting (their savings in that bank).”
(80) As	 revistas	 não	 têm	 estado	 a	 ser	 arrumadas	 nas	 estantes	 pela
the	journals	not	have	been	 to	be	 stored	 on‐the	shelves	 by‐the
bibliotecária
librarian
“The journals have not been being stored on the shelves by the librarian.”
a. # mas	 os	 livros	 têm	 estado	 a	 ser	 arrumados.(EP)
 but	 the	 books	 have	 been	 to	 be	 stored
b. # mas	 os	 livros	 foram	 arrumados.(EP)
 but	 the	 books	 were	 stored
312  Sonia Cyrino and Gabriela Matos
In (79a), the verb ler “read” allows two interpretations for the absence of complements of the
verb: a cognate null object interpretation, which is preferential, and VPE reading, which is
felt as much less natural by the speakers. In (79b) and (79c) the null object reading is not
available in EP, even in the extended version of Costa and Duarte (2003) because the omitted
constituents occur in island domains and the main verb obligatorily select their comple-
ments; nevertheless, the VPE interpretation of these examples is somewhat marginal in EP.1
As for (80), the VP ellipsis is lost (as in (79a)): the reader knows that the books have been
stored ­
somewhere by someone, but the precise information about the person who stored the
books and the place where they have been stored is lost.
Matos (1992) imputes this different behavior to the properties of the auxiliaries involved.
The perfect tense auxiliary ter selects a past participle projection with active v‐features (81)
and may form with it a verbal unit, as evidenced by the possibility of these verbs to move
together in T‐to‐C constructions in EP (82).
(81) [ter [VPpast part
…[Vpast part
<+v>]… ] ] …
(82) a. Que   
têm  lido  provavelmente os   
alunos?    Até  
posso  
adivinhar!
what have read probably   the students? (I)   
even may   
guess
“What did probably the students read? I even may guess it!”
b. [CP
Que [C têm lido] [provavelmente os alunos] ]
As for estar, she adopted Raposo’s (1989) proposal that this verb selects a prepositional
­
infinitival construction in EP, formed by a small clause headed by the prepositional marker
“a” and a TP infinitival complement:
(83) … estar[SC
DP[particle
a][TP
…Vinf
…]] …
Matos shows that this construction optionally presents restructuring, based on the
optionality of clitic climbing:
(84) a. Ela está‐lhe	 a dar o livro.
She is‐cl	 to give the book
b. Ela está a dar‐lhe o livro
she is to give‐cl the book
“She is giving him the book.”
She also argues that restructuring in this construction is obligatory in EP in the context of
VPE, mainly grounded on the position of também. This adverbial must have local scope over
the verbal licensor of the elided VP. As shown in (85), também must precede and c‐command
the whole verbal sequence to produced full acceptable VPE interpretations:
(85) a. A manteiga	 está	 a ser	 posta	 no	 frigorífico	 e	 a	 cerveja	 também
the butter	 is	 being	 put	 in‐the	 fridge	 and	 the	 beer	 also
está a  ser
is     being
“The butter is being put in the fridge and the beer is being too.”
b. ??A manteiga	 está	 a ser	 posta	 no	 frigorífico	 e	 a	 cerveja	 está
  the butter	 is	 being	 put	 in‐the	 fridge	 and	 the	 beer	 is
também	 a ser
also	being
Finally,toaccountfortheimpossibilityofrecoveringthemainverbcomplementsinsequences
involving the passive auxiliary plus the main verb (cf. (80)), Matos (1992) claims that the passive
participle is unable to license VPE in EP due to its deficitary status as a verbal category.
Null Objects and VP Ellipsis in European and Brazilian Portuguese  313
Thus, Matos (1992) concludes that in EP the sequences formed by the aspectual estar plus
the main verb in the infinitive, as well as those constituted by the passive auxiliary plus the
main verb in the passive participle, do not participate in the verbal chain headed by the
auxiliary in the finite T that licenses the elided VP, and allows its recovery.
This analysis has been refined and developed by Cyrino and Matos to account for the con-
trasts in VPE in BP and EP. In fact, in contrast with EP, in BP the VPE interpretation is clearly
preferred in all types of verbal sequences, i.e. those that only exhibit auxiliaries and those that
present auxiliaries plus the main verb. The authors imputed these contrasts to the different
properties of the progressive and the passive auxiliaries in EP and BP and to the properties of
the functional categories they select in these language varieties.
Cyrino and Matos (2002, 2005) proposed that in EP and English, the licenser for VPE is T,
but, in BP, VPE can be licensed by other functional heads: T, Asp or passive participle. They
based their proposal on the contrasts found in sequences of auxiliary verbs (progressive and
passive) followed by the main verb when the adverb também “too/also” intervenes in the
verbal sequence.
In a verbal sequence, when também is placed between an auxiliary and the last verb, it
brakes this verbal sequence and forces the last verb to be the licensor of the elided constituent,
as illustrated in (86) and in (87), which involve the progressive and the passive auxiliaries
plus the main verb. These examples stress the different behavior of BP and EP in these con-
texts: in BP the VPE reading is available, in EP it is (almost) lost:
(86) a. Ela	 estava	 a chegar	da	 Inglaterra	 e	 nós	 estávamos	 também	 a chegar.
she	 was	 to arrive	 from	 England	 and	 we	 were	 also	 to arrive
VPE reading: “She was arriving from England and we were too.”
(✓BP, ??EP)
Non-VPE reading: “She was arriving from England and we were also arriving
(from	somewhere)”
(✓BP, ✓EP)
b. Ele	 estava	{cantando/a cantar}	 cantigas	 às	 crianças,	 porque	 eu estava
he	 was	 singing to sing	 songs	 to‐the	 children	 since I	 was
também cantando/a  cantar.
(i) VPE reading: “He was singing songs to the children, since I was too.”
(✓BP, ??EP)
(ii) Cognate null object reading: “He was singing songs to the children, because
I was also singing.”
(✓BP, ✓EP)
The sentences involving cognate objects are particularly revealing, because in this case the
intransitive reading is almost mandatory in EP, but optional in BP. Note that the fact that estar
selects the gerund in BP, but the infinitive in standard EP does not change the preferred
interpretations.
Likewise, in sentences with the passive auxiliary and the main verb, in BP, the elided
constituent recovers all the non‐moved arguments of the main verb, but in EP this does not
happen:
(87) Os brinquedos	 foram dados	 às	 crianças e	 os	 livros	 foram
the toys	 were given	 to‐the	 children and	 the	 books	 were
também	dados.
also	given
(i) VPE reading: “The toys were given to the children and the books were too” (✓BP)
(ii) Non VPE reading: “The toys were given to the children and the books were
also given (away)” (✓EP)
314  Sonia Cyrino and Gabriela Matos
In (86) and (87) the verbs with finite inflection raise to T, but the verbs in the progressive
constructions in the gerund or in the expression “a_Vinf
,” as well the verbs in the passive
participle occupy the head of a projection of their own, respectively Asp(P) and Pass(P), an
instance of Voice(P).
(88) a. (…) [TP
estava também [AspP
cantando [vP
__ ] ]]
    was also singing
b. (…) [TP
estava	 também [AspP
  a	[TP
cantar [vP
__ ] ]]
    was	 also	 
to	  sing
c. (…) [TP
foram	 também  [PassP
	  dados [vP
__ ] ]]
    were	also	 given
In BP, the verbs in Asp and Pass may license the elided VP; the same does not happen in
EP, where finite T is the licenser of VPE. This shows that, in BP, the verbs that participate in
the VPE licensing sequences have a greater autonomy than in EP and, apparently, restructur-
ing does not apply to verbal sequences in BP. Thus, Matos and Cyrino (2001) claim that in BP,
the auxiliary verbs select non‐defective functional projections, and exhibit another active
T domain able to license elliptical constituents. Therefore, both the possibility of having the
interposition of também and the possibility for the lower (main) verb to be able to license VPE
is explained. In both cases the licenser of ellipsis in BP is the functional head that is lower in
the structure:
(89) a. A Ana está lendo os livros às crianças e a Maria está (BP)
the Ana is reading the books to‐the children and the Maria is
também  lendo.
also   reading
“Ana is reading the books to the children and Maria is too.”
b. …e a Maria [TP
[T°
está] [VauxP
t [TP
também [T°<+active>
lendo] [AspP
t [vP
‐]]]]]
Additional evidence for a second TP (functional) projection comes from clitic placement
in BP. In EP the modal poder, but not the auxiliary ter of compound tenses, selects TP—conse-
quently, the following contrast is observed:
(90) a. João podia [TP
ler‐lhe o livro]. (EP)
João could  read‐cl.dat‐3 sg the book
“João could read him/her the book.”
b. *Ele tem [VauxP
lido‐lhe	   
o	  livro]
  He has    read‐cl.dat‐3 sg	 the	 book
c. *Ele tinha [VauxP
já	   lhe     lido  
o  livro]
 
He has   already  cl.dat‐3 sg read  the book
On the contrary, in BP, the possibility for proclisis to the past participle and to the gerund
in the constructions with auxiliaries confirms that these select TP active domains (91).
As expected, in these domains, também can co‐occur with the clitic (92).
(91) a. João	 tem [te		 lido	 o	 livro]	(BP)
João	 has	 cl.dat‐3 sg	 read	 the	 book
“João”
b. João está [te	 enviando o livro]
João is	cl.dat‐3 sg	 read  the  book
Null Objects and VP Ellipsis in European and Brazilian Portuguese  315
(92) O Pedro está te enviando livros e João está também te enviando livros. (BP)
These data lead Cyrino and Matos (2005) to refine the VPE licensing condition proposed
in (75), which stated that “VPE is licensed by a lexically filled functional head with v‐features
that locally c‐commands the elliptical predicate.” Although necessary, this condition is not
sufficient, since it predicts that languages with generalized verb movement have VPE, a pre-
diction that is not borne out by languages like Spanish, French or Italian.
The authors attributed the lack of VPE in those languages to a grammaticalization process
of the auxiliary verbs. This grammaticalization produces the weakening of the aspectual
value of auxiliaries and the loss of the temporal value of the tense affixes that affect the
auxiliary verb. Thus, in the French and Spanish examples below, despite the fact that
the  auxiliary exhibits a present tense affix, the composed verbal form [AuxPresent
+ Past
Participle] is interpreted as past and can be used as the Simple Past:
(93) a. Jean a vu ses amis.
b. Juan ha visto a suyos amigos.
“Jean/Juan saw his friends.”
Cyrino and Matos also claimed that in languages in which the complex verb forms are
highly grammaticalized (e.g. Spanish and French), Asp is closely linked to tense and it is not
interpreted as part of the vP predicate, (94):
(94) [CP
C [TP
T [Asp … [vP
]]]]
In contrast, in the languages in which these complex verb forms keep their aspectual values
(e.g. Portuguese and English), AspP is understood as an extended projection of the vP
predicate forming a complex AsP_vP:
(95) [CP
C [TP
T [AspP‐vP
Asp‐vP … [vP
]]]]
Adopting this analysis, Cyrino and Matos (2005) propose that the parametrical difference
between generalized V‐movement languages with and without VPE is the availability/
unavailability of immediate command of the elided predicate by the potential licensor.
This happens in EP, since T merges with Asp‐vP, as well as in BP, where the verbal licensor
may occur in Asp(P) or Pass(P), since these categories may merge with vP, satisfying the
immediate c‐command requirement. However, it does not occur in French or Spanish,
because Asp intervenes between T and vP.
Building on that work, Cyrino (2013) argues that BP has lost “long” verb movement and,
because of that, null objects can be licensed as ellipsis (as seen above). On the same line of
reasoning, and on the basis of the position of adverbs, Tescari Neto (2013) shows that VPE in
BP is licensed by the verb in a very low functional projection.
Acknowledgements
This research has been funded by the following research grants: Brazilian CNPQ – Conselho
Nacional para o Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (research grant 303742/2013‐5)
and FAPESP‐Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de São Paulo (research grant
2012/06078‐9), Portuguese FCT‐Fundação para a Ciência e Tecnologia (project PEst‐OE/
LIN/UI0214/2013). We also thanks an anonymous reviewer for helpful comments on a
previous version of this paper.
316  Sonia Cyrino and Gabriela Matos
Note
1	 Notice that although in standard EP the examples in (79c) are not fully acceptable, they tend
to be more easily permitted by the young generation. A plausible explanation for this fact, is
the increasing grammaticalization of progressive estar in their internal grammar.
References
Barra‐Ferreira, M. (2000). Argumentos Nulos
em Português Brasileiro. Master dissertation,
Unicamp, Campinas.
Bianchi, V. and M. C. Figueiredo (1994). On some
properties of agreement‐object in Italian and
Brazilian Portuguese. In M. Mazzola (ed.),
Issues and Teory in Romance Linguistics.
Washington, DC: Georgetown University
Press, pp. 181–197.
Costa, J. and I. Duarte (2003). Objectos Nulos em
debate. In I. Castro and I. Duarte (eds.), Razões
e Emoção. Lisbon: Imprensa Nacional – Casa da
Moeda, pp. 249–260.
Cyrino, S. (1997). O Objeto Nulo no Português
Brasileiro: Um estudo sintático‐diacrônico.
Londrina: Editora da UEL. [Published version
of Cyrino’s (1994) Ph.D. dissertation, Unicamp,
Campinas].
Cyrino, S. (2013). On richness of tense and verb
movement in Brazilian Portuguese. In M. V.
Camacho‐Taboada, A. Jiménez‐Fernández,
J. Martín‐González, and M. Reyes‐Tejedor
(eds.), Information Structure and Agreement.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins, pp. 297–317.
Cyrino, S. and G. Matos (2002). VPE in European
and Brazilian Portuguese: A comparative
analysis. Journal of Portuguese Linguistics,
1 (2), pp. 177–214.
Cyrino, S. and G. Matos (2005). Local licensers
and recovering in VPE. Journal of Portuguese
Linguistics, 4 (2), pp. 79–112.
Cyrino, S. and G. Matos (2006). Null complement
anaphora in romance: deep or surface
anaphora? In J. Doetjes and P. González (eds.),
Romance Languages and Linguistic Theory 2004.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins, pp. 95–120.
Cyrino, S., E. Duarte, and M. Kato (2000). Visible
subjects and invisible clitics in Brazilian
Portuguese. In M. Kato and E. Negrão (eds.),
Brazilian Portuguese and the Null Subject
Parameter Frankfurt am Main. Madrid:
Iberoamericana, pp. 55–73.
Duarte, I. (1987) A construção de Topicalização
na Gramática do Português: Regência, Ligação
e condições sobre movimento. Ph.D.
dissertation, Universidade de Lisboa.
Duarte, I. and J. Costa (2013). Objecto Nulo.
In E. Raposo, M. F. Nascimento, M. A. Mota,
L. Segura and A. Mendes (eds.), Gramática do
Português, vol. II. Lisbon: Fundação Calouste
Gulbenkian, pp. 2339–2348.
Farrell, P. (1990). Null objects in Brazilian
Portuguese. The Linguistic Review, 8,
pp. 325–346.
Galves, C. (1989b). Objet Nul et Structure de la
Proposition en Portugais Brésilien. Revue des
Langues Romanes, 93, pp. 305–336.
Goldberg, L. (2005). Verb‐Stranding VPE: A
Cross‐Linguistic Study. Ph.D. dissertation,
McGill University.
Gonçalves, A. and G. Matos (2009). Ellipsis and
restructuring in European Portuguese. In E.
Aboh, E. Linden, J. Queer, and P. Sleeman
(eds.), Romance Languages and Linguistic Theory.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 109–129.
Huang, C. T. J. (1984). On the distribution and
reference of the empty categories. Linguistic
Inquiry, 15, pp. 531–574.
Kato, M. (1993). The distribution of pronouns
and null elements in object position in
Brazilian Portuguese. In W. Ashby, M.
Perissinotto, and E. Raposo (eds.), Linguistic
Perspectives on the Romance Languages.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Martins, A. M. (1994). Enclisis, VP‐deletion and
the nature of Sigma. Probus, 6, pp. 173–205.
Matos, G. (1992). Construções de Elipse do
Predicado em Português: SV Nulo e
Despojamento. Ph.D. dissertation,
Universidade de Lisboa.
Matos, G. and S. Cyrino (2001). Elipse de VP no
Português Europeu e no Português Brasileiro.
Boletim da Abralin, 26, número especial,
pp. 386–390.
Null Objects and VP Ellipsis in European and Brazilian Portuguese  317
Raposo, E. (1986). On the null object in European
Portuguese. In O. Jaeggli and C. Silva
Corvalán (eds.), Studies in Romance Linguistics.
Dordrecht: Foris, pp. 373–390.
Raposo, E. (1989). Prepositional infinitival
construction in European Portuguese. In O.
Jaeggli and K. Safir (eds.), The Null Subject
Parameter. Dordrecht/Boston/London:
Kluwer Academic Publishers, pp. 277–305.
Raposo, E. (2004). Objetos Nulos e CLLD: Uma
teoria unificada. Revista da ABRALIN, 3 (1,2),
pp. 41–73.
Rizzi, L. (1986). Null objects and the theory
of pro. Linguistic Inquiry, 17, pp. 501–558.
Rouveret, A. (2012). VPE, phases and the syntax
of morphology. Natural Language and Linguistic
Theory, 30 (3), pp. 897–963.
Santos, A. L. (2009). Minimal Answers: Ellipsis,
Syntax and Discourse in the Acquisition of European
Portuguese. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Tescari‐Neto, A. (2013). On Verb Movement in
Brazilian Portuguese: A Cartographic Study.
Ph.D. dissertation, Universitá Ca’Foscari,
Venice.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
In this chapter we discuss some of the main properties of constructions involving participial
passives, passive se, and impersonal se in Portuguese, focusing on its two main varieties,
European and Brazilian Portuguese (henceforth EP and BP, respectively).1
When the two
dialects differ, we will provide the relevant judgments each dialect assigns to the data under
discussion by using the abbreviations EP and BP.
The chapter is organized in four sections. Section 2 deals with participial passives, distin-
guishing between adjectival and verbal passives and between the participial forms of passives
and compound tenses. Section 3 focuses on passive se and impersonal se constructions,
comparing them with verbal passives when appropriate. Section 4 concludes the paper.
2.  Participial passive constructions
As one finds in many languages, passive constructions in Portuguese involve a reorganization
of the argument structure of transitive verbs2
associated with some specific morphology,
which has several consequences for syntactic computations. Take the transitive verb plantar
“plant,” for instance. In an active construction such as (1a) below, for example, its external
argument is realized as the syntactic subject, bearing nominative case and triggering verbal
agreement, whereas the internal argument is realized as the syntactic object, bearing accusa-
tive case. In turn, in the passive version of (1a) given in (1b), the external argument is
realized as an adjunct‐like PP and the internal argument is the element that bears nominative
case and triggers verbal agreement with an auxiliary verb (ser “be”). The passive form is
obtained by adding participial morphology to the verb and the participial form also agrees
with the internal argument.
(1)  a.  Eu  plantei     
as   
flores.
I  
planted.1sg the flowers
“I planted the flowers.”
b. As flores foram planta‐d‐a‐s por mim.
the flowers.fem.pl were.3pl plant‐pple.fem.pl by me
“The flowers were planted by me.”
Passives and Se Constructions
Ana Maria Martins and Jairo Nunes
17
Passives and Se Constructions  319
Each of the ingredients of passive constructions mentioned above independently interacts
with other parts of the grammar. Consider the participial morphology, for instance.
Besides being associated with passives, as seen in (1b), it may also encode perfectivity,
as shown in (2a) below. (2b) further shows that the two uses of the participial
­
morphology may in fact be found in the same clause. One difference between them,
though, is that the passive participle may bear agreement morphology, as seen in (1b),
but not the perfective participial, as seen in (2a), which displays default morphology
(masculine singular). Thus, in the perfective passive in (2b), the perfective participle
has default morphology, whereas the passive participle agrees in gender and number
with the internal argument.
(2) a. A Maria tinha contrata‐d‐o as funcionárias.
the Maria had hire‐pple‐masc.sg the employees.fem.pl
“Maria had hired the employees.”
b. As funcionárias	 tinham	 si‐d‐o	 contratad‐a‐s	 pela	 Maria.
the employees.fem.pl had   been‐pple‐masc.sg hire‐pple‐fem‐pl  by.the Maria
“The employees had been hired by Maria.”
These two uses of the participle interact with clitic placement in an interesting way in the
varieties of Portuguese analyzed here, as illustrated in (3) and (4):3
(3) a. *O	 João tinha	 enviado‐me	 as	 revistas. (EP*; BP*)
the	 João had	 sent‐me	 the	 magazines
b. O	 João tinha,	 com toda	 a	 certeza,	 me enviado	 as revistas. (EP*; BP°K
)
the	 João had	 with all the	 certainty	 me sent	 the magazines
c. O João tinha‐me, com toda a certeza, enviado as revistas. (EP°K
; BP*)
the João had‐me with all the certainty sent the magazines
“João had(, for sure,) sent me the magazines.”
(4) a. *As	 revistas	 foram	 enviadas‐me	 pelo	 João. (EP*; BP*)
the	magazines	were	 sent‐me	 by‐the	João
b. *As  revistas	 foram,	com toda a certeza,	 me enviadas	 pelo	 João. (EP*; BP*)
the  magazines  were	 with all the certainty  me sent	 by‐the  João
c. As revistas foram‐me, com toda a certeza, enviadas pelo João.(EP°K
; BP*)
the magazines were‐me with all the certainty sent by‐the João
d. As	 revistas	 me foram enviadas pelo João. (EP*; BP°K
)
the	 magazines	 me were sent	 by‐the João
“The magazines were (, for sure,) sent to me by João.”
Let us first consider BP, which is essentially a proclitic system (but see Section 3.2
below for further discussion). Thus, the ungrammaticality of the sentences in (3a, c) and
(4a, c) in this dialect directly follows from its general ban on enclisis. What about the
contrast between (3b) and (4b), both involving proclisis to the participial form? A very
plausible explanation is that the agreement in gender and number in the case of
the  passive participle in (4b) renders it close to adjectives and independently, an
adjective cannot be a target for clitic attachment in either dialect, as illustrated in (5),
where the clitic is an argument of the adjective.4
320  Ana Maria Martins and Jairo Nunes
(5) a. *Eles sempre foram fiéis‐me. (EP*; BP*)
they always were faithful‐me
b. *Eles sempre foram, sem    dúvida alguma, me fiéis. (EP*; BP*)
they aways were   without doubt some   me faithful
c. Eles   foram‐me, sem   dúvida alguma, fiéis. (EP°K
; BP*)
they were‐me    without doubt    some  faithful
d. Eles   sempre    me    foram fiéis. (EP*; BP°K
)
they always me were   faithful
“(Undoubtedly,) they were always faithful to me.”
As for EP, it is essentially an enclitic system, but proclisis must be enforced in the presence
of certain specific syntactic triggers such as negation or focus, for instance. Thus, the unac-
ceptability of (3b) and (4b) in this dialect falls under its general ban on proclisis to a nonfinite
verb, whereas the unacceptability of (4d) is related to the lack of a proclisis trigger. Crucially,
the ungrammaticality of (4a) may have the same source as the one seen in BP for (4b), namely,
the presence of adjectival agreement morphology (gender and number) on the passive
participle blocks clitic attachment.5
The connection between passive participles and adjectives has further implications. As
mentioned above, the auxiliary employed with passives is ser. Interestingly, superficially
similar participial constructions may resort to aspectual verbs like estar “be” (stative) or ficar
“remain/become,” as illustrated in (6).
(6) a. As obras de arte foram destruídas (por vândalos).
the works of art were destroyed by vandals)
“The artworks were destroyed by vandals.”
b. As obras  de arte estavam/       
ficaram  destruídas (*por  vândalos).
the works  of art    were.stative/  became  destroyed   by   vandals)
“The artworks laid/became damaged (*by vandals).”
The participial form in (6b) is felt as passive in the sense that it says something about the
internal argument. However, the external argument, which is optional in the case of a
canonical passive and is realized as a PP (see (6a)), is not allowed in the case of the seemingly
passive in (6b) with either of the aspectual verbs.
The contrast between (6a) and (6b) is reminiscent of Wasow’s (1977) classical distinction
between verbal and adjectival passives.6
For Wasow, verbal passives are formed in the syn-
tactic component, whereas adjectival passives are formed in the lexicon. Thus, while the
former are pretty much regular, the latter include a considerable degree of idiosyncrasy,
which is commonly found associated with specific lexical items. Take the realization of the
external argument, for instance. If a verb allows a verbal passive, the external argument will
always be optional and always introduced by the preposition por “by” (see (1b)) or its
allomorph per when contracted with a definite article (see (2b)). Adjectival passives, on the
other hand, display a much diversified pattern, depending on the specific lexical items
involved. Thus, the realization of the external argument is impossible with the adjectival
passive of destruir “destroy,” as seen in (6b), but is obligatory in BP with the adjectival passive
of compor “compose,” as illustrated in (7) below. The preposition introducing the element
that may correspond to the external argument in an active construction may also vary. The
lexical passive of cercar “surround,” for instance, allows both the preposition por/per and de
“of,” as illustrated in (8b). There are also cases like (9), which shows that the verb entristecer
“sadden,” like many psych‐verbs, does not allow a verbal passive (see (9b)), but admits an
adjectival passive (see (9c)).7
Interestingly, the external argument is realized with the
Passives and Se Constructions  321
preposition com “with,” which is the same preposition that occurs with the adjective triste
“sad” (see (9d)).
(7) Este trabalho está	 composto *(por quatro seções). (BP)
this work	 is.stative composed	 by	 four	 sections
“This work comprises four sections.”
(8) a. Os soldados foram cercados por/*de inimigos.
the soldiers were surrounded by/*of enemies
“The soldiers were surrounded by the enemy.”
b. A cidade estava cercada por/de montanhas.
the city	 was.stative surrounded by/of enemies
“The city was surrounded by mountains.”
(9) a. Os boatos entristeceram a Maria.
the rumors saddened the Maria
“The rumors saddened Maria.”
b. *A Maria foi entristecida (pelos boatos).
the Maria was saddened (by.the rumors)
“Maria was saddened by the rumors.”
c. A	 Maria estava/ficou	 entristecida (com os boatos)
the Maria was.stative/became saddened with the rumors
“Maria was/became saddened with the rumors.”
d. A Maria estava/ficou	 triste (com os boatos)
the Maria was.stative/became sad with the rumors
“Maria was/became sad with the rumors.”
Focusing now on verbal passives, we have seen that despite being verbal, their
agreement morphology (gender and number) makes them similar to adjectival predicates
with respect to clitic placement (see (4a, b) and (5a, b)). In fact, the similarities also involve
the realization of the agreement morphology itself. This point is better seen in BP, which
has been undergoing a weakening of its verbal and nominal agreement paradigms and
displays a considerable degree of idiolectal variation in the realization of gender and
number, subject to many interfering factors. Roughly speaking, BP differs from EP in that
(for some speakers) passive constructions may allow lack of number agreement with pre-
verbal subjects, as shown in (10), and lack of both gender and number agreement with
postverbal subjects, as shown in (11).8
(10) a. [Os projeto] foram arquivado. (%BP)
the.masc.pl project.masc were filed.masc
“The projects were filed.”
b. [As proposta] foram aprovada. (%BP)
the.fem.pl proposal.fem were approved.fem
“The proposals were approved.”
(11) a. Foi	 dito	 muitas	     coisa	 
ofensiva. (%BP)
was said.masc    many.fem.pl thing.fem offensive.fem
“Many offensive things were said.”
b. Não foi   encontrado   as	 
revista	     
que ele pediu. (%BP)
not was found.masc the.fem.pl magazine.fem that he asked
“The magazines that he asked for were not found.”
322  Ana Maria Martins and Jairo Nunes
The data in (10) and (11) display the same pattern independently found with adjectival
predicates in BP, as illustrated in (12) and (13).
(12) a. Os cavalo ficaram calmo. (%BP)
the.masc.pl horse.masc  became calm.masc
“The horses became calm.”
b. As     
menina  tavam muito cansada. (%BP)
the.fem.pl girl.fem were  very tired.fem
“The girls were very tired.”
(13) a. Eu achei complicado    
as    proposta    
apresentada. (%BP)
I found complicated.masc the.fem.pl proposal.fem presented.fem
“I found the proposals that were presented difficult to understand.”
b. O João   considerou   inadequado    
as    medida   tomada. (%BP)
the João considered inadequate.masc the.fem.pl measure.fem taken.fem
“João considered the measures taken to be inadequate”
The case properties of verbal passives are in turn more transparent in EP, for in BP there
are too many independent confounding properties such as the loss of third person accusa-
tive clitics, homophony between nominative and accusative third person weak and strong
pronouns, and the general weakening of agreement morphology just seen above. So, we will,
accordingly, focus on EP data. The data in (14) below show that the internal argument of a
verbal passive cannot be marked with accusative case (see (14b–c)), displaying nominative
case, instead (see (14d–e)).
(14) EP:
a. Foram plantadas as flores.
were planted the flowers
“The flowers have been planted.”
b. *Foram plantadas‐as.
were planted‐3.fem.pl.acc
c. *Foram‐nas	 plantadas.
were‐3.fem.pl.acc planted
“They have been planted.”
d. Elas	 foram plantadas, mas morreram.
3.fem.pl.nom were planted but died
“They were planted but didn’t last.”
e. Fomos	 vistos tu	 e   eu	 a arrancar	 as flores.
were.1.pl seen 2.sg.nom and 1.sg.nom to pluck	 the flowers
“You and I were seen plucking the flowers.”
Notice that the ungrammaticality of (14b) cannot be simply due to the impossibility of
enclisis to a passive in EP, as seen in (4a). Recall that if the (dative) clitic of (4a) undergoes
climbing and attaches to the auxiliary verb, we obtain a grammatical output, as seen in (4c).
However, as shown in (14c), clitic climbing does not rescue the grammatical failure in (14b),
indicating that we are indeed dealing with a case issue.
Given the ungrammaticality of (14b) and (14c), on the one hand, and the availability
of (14d‐e) with nominative pronouns and the corresponding verbal agreement, on the
other, the logical conclusion is that the internal argument in (14a) bears nominative
case.
Passives and Se Constructions  323
3.  Se constructions
In Section 3.1 below we will compare the two types of se constructions commonly referred to
as passive se and impersonal se constructions. The latter is available in both BP and EP, while
the former was lost in the course of time in BP. We will also contrast se passives and verbal
passives and consider differences between BP and EP with respect to impersonal se. In
Section 3.2, we will describe some peculiarities of impersonal se structures regarding clitic
placement and some co‐occurrence restrictions with respect to other clitics.
3.1.  Passive se and impersonal se: agreement, word order, case,
and interpretation
Like other Romance languages, Portuguese may form impersonal constructions with a clitic
that is homophonous to the third person reflexive clitic (se in this case). When transitive
verbs are involved and the internal argument is a third person plural element, the verb may
agree with the internal argument or surface with (default) third person singular morphology,
as illustrated in (15) below.9
Despite their close similarity in form and meaning, these
constructions exhibit strikingly different properties, as we will see below. The agreement
with the internal argument in (15a) brings this type closer to passive constructions and
accordingly, its clitic is commonly referred to as passive se, as opposed to the clitic in the
non‐agreeing construction, generally referred to as impersonal se. For purposes of exposi-
tion, we will adopt this terminology in what follows.
(15) a. Ouviram‐se muitas explosões ontem. (EP°K
; BP*)
heard.3pl‐se many explosions yesterday
“Many explosions were heard yesterday.”
b. Ouviu‐se	 muitas explosões ontem. (EP*; BP*)
heard.3sg‐se many   explosions yesterday
“People heard many explosions yesterday.”
Diachronically, the passive se construction is the older construction, which suggests that
the impersonal se construction emerged as a reanalysis of the previously existing passive se
construction (see e.g. Naro 1976, Nunes 1990, 1991). In EP the two constructions are stable in
the system, whereas in BP the impersonal se construction has completely replaced the passive
se construction. The surviving (infrequent) instances of passive se in present‐day BP are gen-
erally restricted to written language and formal style and are arguably due to a prescriptivist
tradition that condemns the use of impersonal se with transitive verbs (see e.g. Galves 1986,
Nunes 1990, 1991). Significantly, BP speakers have no judgments on the contrasts between
the two constructions that are reported below. Thus, the discussion of the differences
between passive se and impersonal se will concentrate on EP.
Besides exhibiting agreement with the internal argument, passive se constructions also
pattern like standard verbal passives and unlike impersonal se constructions in several
properties. First, in passive se constructions, the internal argument can move to the subject
position, as exemplified in (16a) to be contrasted with (16b).10
(16) a. Os bolos comeram‐se ontem. (EP)
the cookies ate.3pl‐se  yesterday
“The cookies were eaten yesterday.”
b. *Os bolos comeu‐se ontem. (EP)
the cookies ate.3sg‐se yesterday
“Someone ate the cookies yesterday.”
324  Ana Maria Martins and Jairo Nunes
Second, like verbal passives (see (14)) and unlike impersonal se constructions, passive se
constructions do not allow accusative case to be assigned to the internal argument. Before we
examine the relevant data, we should first observe that there is an independent adjacency
restriction in EP ruling out a clitic se followed by an accusative clitic, as shown in (17) below
with reflexive se. Hence, for many speakers, neither passive se nor impersonal se is compatible
with an accusative clitic, as illustrated in (18).
(17) *O João deu‐se‐o (EP)
the João gave‐se‐it.masc.acc
“João gave it to himself.”
(18) a. *Compraram‐se‐os ontem. (EP)
bought.3pl‐se‐them.masc.acc yesterday
“They were bought yesterday.”
b Comprou‐se‐os ontem. (%EP)
bought.3sg‐se‐them.masc.acc yesterday
“People/we bought them yesterday.”
However, it should be noted that whereas there are speakers who allow (18b) (including
the first author of this paper), there are no speakers who accept (18a).11
And, crucially, when
the adjacency restriction is circumvented by placing each clitic on a different host, as in (19)
below, all speakers agree with respect to the contrast. Similarly, the contrast also becomes
clear if a dative clitic intervenes between se and the accusative clitic, as in (20) (from Martins
2013). This shows that only impersonal se constructions allow the internal argument to be
assigned accusative case.
(19) a. *Podem‐se comprá‐los amanhã. (EP)
can.3pl‐se buy‐them.masc.acc tomorrow
“They can be bought tomorrow.”
b. Pode‐se  comprá‐los amanhã. (EP)
can.3sg‐se buy‐them.masc.acc tomorrow
“One/we can buy them tomorrow.”
(20) a. *Histórias de lobisomens, ouviam‐se‐lhas	 vezes sem conta. (EP)
stories  of werewolves heard.3pl‐se‐dat.them.fem.acc times without count
“Werewolf stories could be heard from him again and again.”
b. Histórias de lobisomens, ouvia‐se‐lhas	 vezes sem conta. (EP)
stories  of werewolves heard.3sg‐se‐dat.them.fem.acc times without count
“Werewolf stories, you could hear them from him again and again.”
The ungrammaticality of (18a), (19a) and (20a) may be taken to show that passive se
behaves like the participial passive morphology in that it deactivates the verb’s accusative
case assigning property (see (14)).12
As for impersonal se, we find the converse situation: it
checks the nominative case available in the clause. Consider the data in (21), for instance.
(21) [Context: After a fire in the zoo, the animal keepers are checking on the animals and find the
snakes unharmed]
a. Como se salvaram   elas? [pointing to the snakes] (EP)
how	 se saved.3pl 3.fem.pl.nom
“How were they saved?” or “How did they save themselves?”
b. *Como se puderam salvá‐las? [pointing to the snakes] (EP)
how	 se could.3pl save.3.fem.pl.acc
“How was it possible to save them?” or ”How did they manage to save themselves?”
Passives and Se Constructions  325
c. Como  se pôde    salvá‐las? [pointing to the snakes] (EP)
how se could.3sg save.3.fem.pl.acc
“How was it possible to save them?” but not “How did they manage to save
themselves?”
d. *Como se salvou   elas? [pointing to the snakes] (EP)
how se saved.3sg 3.fem.pl.nom
“How did one saved them?” or ”How did they save themselves?”
(21a) is ambiguous between a passive se interpretation and a reflexive reading. This
ambiguity is partially due to the case specification of the pronoun elas “they.fem.” As a
nominative pronoun, it may be the internal argument in a passive se structure—as accusa-
tive case is unavailable in this type of structure—or the external argument in a reflexive
structure, with the reflexive bearing the internal θ‐role and accusative case. Accordingly, a
sentence like (21b) leads to ungrammaticality regardless of the interpretation: under the
passive se structure, there is no licenser for the accusative case specification of the clitic
as “them.fem” and under the reflexive structure, the two clitics would be competing for
the same case licensing. In turn, (21c) is grammatical, but only under the impersonal se
interpretation, with se bearing nominative and the object clitic, accusative; again, the
reflexive reading is excluded as the two clitics would be competing for accusative case.
Finally, (21d) disallows the reflexive reading—because the putative subject (the pronoun
elas) fails to trigger verbal agreement—and the impersonal se reading, as the two pronouns
compete for nominative case.13
So far, we have seen that verbal passives and se passives share some properties. But
there are also differences between them. For example, passive se constructions pattern like
monoargumental unaccusative sentences and unlike verbal passives in that they easily
allow postverbal definite subjects in out‐of‐the‐blue (broad information focus) sentences,
as shown in (22).
(22) a. Apanharam‐se estas maçãs todas sem	 estarem	 maduras. (EP)
picked.3pl‐se these apples all	 without	 be.inf.3.pl	 ripe
“All these apples were picked while still green.”
b. Caíram estas maçãs todas sem	 estarem	 maduras.	 (EP)
fell	 these apples all	 without	 be.inf.3.pl	 ripe
“All these apples fell off while still green.”
c. *?Foram apanhadas estas maçãs todas sem	 estarem	 maduras. (EP)
were	 picked	 these apples all	 without be.inf.3.pl ripe
“All these apples were picked while still green.”
There are also differences with respect to the landing site for the movement of the internal
argument. Both passive se and verbal passive constructions allow movement of the internal
argument to a preverbal position, as shown in (23), with no need of a marked intonation (see
foonote 10).
(23) a. Estas maçãs todas apanharam‐se sem	 estarem	 maduras. (EP)
these apples all	 picked.3pl‐se	without be.inf.3.pl ripe
b. Estas maçãs todas foram apanhadas sem	 estarem	 maduras. (EP)
these apples all	 were	 picked	 without be.inf.3.pl ripe
“All these apples were picked while still green.”
However, as proposed by Raposo and Uriagereka (1996), the preverbal DP of a passive se
sentence like (23a) seems to occupy a topic position rather than the canonical subject
326  Ana Maria Martins and Jairo Nunes
position, for the passive se reading is blocked when there is no available topic position,
as in the inflected infinitival clause in (24), for example (from Raposo and Uriagereka
1996).
(24) a. Vai ser difícil [os documentos serem aceites] (EP)
will be difficult the documents be.inf.3pl accepted
“It will be difficult for the documents to be accepted.”
b. *Vai ser difícil [os documentos aceitarem‐se] (EP)
will be difficult the documents accept.inf.3pl‐se
“It will be difficult for someone or other to accept the documents”
But the most salient difference between verbal passives and passive se constructions is
that the external argument may be optionally expressed by means of a PP (the “by‐phrase”)
in the case of verbal passives, but not in the case of se passives, as illustrated in (25).
(25) a. Os bolos foram comidos (pelos meninos).
the cookies were eaten (by‐the children)
“The cookies were eaten (by the children).”
b. Comeram‐se os bolos (*pelos meninos). (EP)
ate.3pl‐se the cookies (*by‐the children)
c. Os bolos comeram‐se (*pelos meninos). (EP)
the cookies ate.3pl‐se (*by‐the children)
“The cookies were eaten (*by the children).”
The lack of an overtly expressed external argument also leads to different interpretations.
A passive sentence such as (26a) below is compatible with both a [+hum] or a [‐hum] inter-
pretation for the implicit external argument; that is, the houses may have been destroyed,
say, by their owners or by the rain. By contrast, passive se constructions only allow a [+hum]
interpretation for their external argument; thus, (26b) cannot be employed to describe the
destruction of the houses by the rain, for example.
(26) a. As casas foram destruídas.
the houses were destroyed
b. Destruíram‐se as casas. (EP)
destroyed.3pl‐se the houses
“The houses have been destroyed.”
The impersonal se construction has inherited this restriction from the passive se
construction. So, the sentence in (27) can only be interpreted as involving an indefinite
[+hum] subject, which may or may not include the speaker.
(27) Destruiu‐se   
as casas.
destroyed.3sg‐se the houses
“People/we destroyed the houses.”
Interestingly, in some dialects of EP the impersonal clitic se can be doubled by a strong
nominative pronoun, as illustrated in (28) below (see Martins 2009). In (28a) and (28b), a
gente (lit. “the people”), which was grammaticalized as a first person plural pronoun,
and nós “we” set an inclusive reading for se, whereas eles “they” in (28c) sets an exclusive
reading.
Passives and Se Constructions  327
(28) %EP:
a. Chama‐se‐lhe a gente espigas. (CORDIAL‐SIN. AAL)
call.3sg‐se‐it.dat the people spikes
“We call it spikes.”
b. Há  várias qualidades que até ainda nós não se conhecemos. (CORDIAL‐SIN. ALV)
has several qualities that even still we not se know.1pl
“There are so many species (of fish) that even we (fishermen) do not know all of them yet.”
c. Sei    é de real certeza   que isto era com   o que se eles batiam o centeio.
know.1sg is of real certainty that this was with what se they beated.3pl the rye
“What I know for sure is that this was the thing that people used to husk the rye.”
(CORDIAL‐SIN. FLF)
The discussion above suggests that se is to be analyzed as a syntactic subject in impersonal se
constructions, but not in passive se constructions. Arguably related to this distinction is the fact
that only impersonal se licenses a subject‐oriented secondary predicate, as illustrated in (29):
(29) a. *Criam‐se avestruzes despreocupado. (EP)
raise.3pl‐se ostriches unpreoccupied
“One raises ostriches unconcerned.”
b. Cria‐se avestruzes despreocupado. (EP)
raise.3sg‐se ostriches unpreoccupied
“One raises ostriches unconcerned.”
Given that verbal passives do not require the expression of the external argument, that
passive se construction excludes it, and that impersonal se is a ([+hum]) indefinite subject, it
is not difficult to find cases in EP where the three constructions are so similar in meaning that
they may be used as optimal paraphrases of one another. This is illustrated by the sentences
in (30), for instance.
(30) a. Foram encontrados finalmente os destroços do  avião. (EP)
were found   
finally  the remains of‐the plane
“The wreckage of the plane was finally found.”
b. Encontraram‐se finalmente os destroços do  avião. (EP)
found.3pl‐se finally   the remains  of‐the plane
“The wreckage of the plane was finally found.”
c. Encontrou‐se finalmente os destroços do  avião. (EP)
found.3sg‐se finally   the remains  of‐the plane
“One finally found the wreckage of the plane.”
In face of this general interchangeability, an intriguing contrast arises in EP when the
three constructions are embedded under raising and control verbs. Take the data in (31) and
(32) below, for example.14
While all the sentences with the (modal) raising verb dever “ought”
in (31) may alternate as good paraphrases of one another, the superficially parallel sentences
in (32) with the control verb querer “want” show interpretive differences depending on the
type of passive construction (i.e. participial passive vs. se passive).
(31) EP:
a. Deve‐se encontrar os culpados.
ought.3sg‐se find the culprits
“One ought to find the culprits.”
b. Devem encontrar‐se os culpados.
ought.3pl find‐se the culprits
328  Ana Maria Martins and Jairo Nunes
c. Devem‐se encontrar os culpados.
ought.3pl‐se find the culprits
d. Devem ser encontrados os culpados.
ought.3pl be found the culprits
e. Os culpados devem ser encontrados.
the culprits ought.3pl be found
“The culprits ought to be found.”
(32) EP:
a. Quer‐se  encontrar os culpados.
want.3sg‐se find the culprits
b. Querem encontrar‐se os culpados.
want.3pl find‐se the culprits
c. Querem‐se encontrar os culpados.
want.3pl‐se find the culprits
“One wants to find the culprits”
d. *Querem ser encontrados os culpados.
want.3pl be found the culprits
[No available interpretation]
e. Os culpados querem ser encontrados.
the culprits want.3pl be found
“The culprits want to be found.”
The contrast between (31) and (32) can be accounted for once one takes into account the
thematic properties of the embedding verb (dever “ought” does not assign an external θ‐role, but
querer “want” does) and the restructuring possibilities within the embedded clause. The
agreement between querer and the plural DP in (32b) and the possibility of clitic climbing in
(32c) indicate that querer, like dever in (31), can be a restructuring verb in EP and its infinitival
complement is compatible with restructuring.15
As restructuring creates a verbal complex whose
case and θ‐assignment are defined by the embedded verb, the verbal complex of (32b) and (32c)
pattern like the embedded verb of (32a), rendering them very close in meaning. Hence, (32a–c)
replicates the paraphrase possibilities found in (31a–c). By contrast, the ungrammaticality of
(32d) shows that the passive participle resist restructuring. Thus, the sentence in (32e) requires
a biclausal analysis, with the plural DP being the external argument of querer, and it cannot be a
paraphrase of (32a–c), for the external argument is now referentially definite. The paradigm in
(32) is interesting in that it shows that the passive se construction may, in some environments,
pattern with the impersonal se construction and differently from the participial passive.
Once impersonal se emerged out of a reanalysis of the passive se constructions as a syn-
tactic subject, it ceased to be restricted to transitive verbs and came to be used with any type
of verb, as illustrated in (33) below. However, as pointed out by Martins and Nunes (2005),
the acceptability of impersonal se with specific raising verbs is subject to variation among EP
speakers and is even more restricted in BP (see Nunes 1990, 1991). The sentence in (33f), for
instance is allowed in EP, but not in BP.
(33) a. Transitive verbs with prepositional complements:
Precisa‐se de funcionários.
need.3sg‐se of waiters
“Waiters wanted.”
b. Unergative verbs:
Trabalha‐se muito nesta cidade.
work.3sg‐se much in‐this city
“One works a lot in this city.”
Passives and Se Constructions  329
c. Unaccusative verbs:
Chegava‐se cedo ao trabalho.
arrived.3sg‐se early at‐the work
“One used to arrive early at work.”
d. Passive verbs:
Quando se é promovido, as coisas ficam mais fáceis.
when  se is promoted the things become more easy
“When one is promoted, things become easier.”
e. Copular verbs:
Não se ficou     contente com a nova situação.
not se became.3sg happy  with the new situation
“People did not become happy with the new situation.”
f. Raising verbs:
Parecia‐se ir ganhar o jogo. (EP°K
; BP*)
seemed‐se go win the game
“It seemed that we would win the game.”
We have seen that EP and BP behave differently with respect to se constructions involving
transitive verbs with prepositionless complements. That is to say, while both impersonal se
and passive se are allowed in EP, only impersonal se is admitted in BP. BP also departs from
EP in being able to drop impersonal se in generic tenses (see e.g. Galves 1987, Nunes 1990,
1991), yielding an indefinite reading for a null third person singular subject, as illustrated in
(34) below.
(34) a. Não usa mais esse estilo de redação. (BP)
not use more this style of writing
“One doesn’t use this writing style anymore.”
b. Casava    muito cedo no  século  passado. (BP)
marry‐imperf very  early in‐the century passed
“People used to get married very early in the last century.”
c. No  futuro vai descobrir remédio para tudo     quanto é doença. (BP)
in‐the future go discover medicine for everything which is sickness
“In the future people will discover medicines for every kind of sickness.”
Both of these peculiarities of BP conform with the generalization that it favors lack of
overt verbal agreement morphology and use of bare verbal forms whenever possible.
That being so, one wonders if the sentences in (34) do indeed result from deletion of
impersonal se or if they simply constitute another instantiation of the weakening of
third person plural morphology, which can convey an arbitrary reading (see Cinque
1988), as illustrated in (35).
(35) a. Telefonaram para você.
called to you
“There was a phone call for you.”
b. Estão batendo na porta.
are knocking in‐the door
“Someone is knocking on the door.”
One crucial difference between the sentences in (34), on the one hand, and (35), on the
other, is that the indefinite subject necessarily excludes the speaker in (35), but not in (34).
Recall that impersonal se constructions may or may not include the speaker and this may be
330  Ana Maria Martins and Jairo Nunes
even disambiguated in some EP dialects via doubling (see (28)). Based on the fact that the
interpretation of (34) is actually closer to the one we finds in impersonal se constructions
than the one found in constructions with arbitrary third person plural, Nunes (1990) argues
that sentences such as (34) do result from deletion of the impersonal se. As Nunes (1990)
further points out, this reasoning is also consistent with the diachronic facts of BP: construc-
tions such as (34) emerged in the nineteenth century in BP, after the impersonal se construction
started being the canonical impersonal construction, leading the passive se construction to
their present‐day obsolescence.
The final contrast between BP and EP we would like to mention here is related to their
differences with respect to the availability of null subjects. As BP became a partial null
subject language, it started favoring overtly expressed subjects in syntactic contexts where
a null subject language of the Romance type chooses a null pronominal as the unmarked
option. Accordingly, impersonal se came to be more frequently expressed within infinitival
clauses in BP than in EP, as a strategy to support an arbitrary/generic interpretation for the
infinitival subject. This contrast between BP and EP is especially clear in prepositioned
infinitival clauses such as the ones in (36) and (37), in which EP noticeably disfavors, or
even excludes, the presence of impersonal se, in the same way that it excludes other overt
subjects.
(36) a. O mar está perigoso para nadar. (BPOK
; EPOK
)
the sea is dangerous for swim
“The sea is currently dangerous for swimming.”
b. O mar está perigoso para se nadar. (BPOK
; EP:??)
the sea is dangerous for se swim
“The sea is currently dangerous for one to swim.”
(37) a. Nova Iorque e Barcelona são cidades fáceis de gostar. (BP ?*; EPOK
)
New York and Barcelona are cities easy of like
“It is easy to like New York or Barcelona.”
b. Nova Iorque e Barcelona são cidades fáceis de se gostar. (BPOK
; EP*)
New York and Barcelona are cities easy of.se like
“It’s easy for one to like New York or Barcelona.”
c. Nova Iorque e Barcelona são cidades fáceis da gente gostar. (BPOK
; EP*)
New York and Barcelona are cities easy of.us like
“It’s easy for us to like New York or Barcelona.”
The discussion above has considered some of the “macroproperties” of constructions
involving passive se and impersonal se. We will now examine some properties of se related
to its status as a clitic, focusing on impersonal se in order to be able to make a comparison
between BP and EP.
3.2.  Impersonal se: syntactic placement and co‐occurrence
restrictions
The reader might have noticed that although we said that BP is essentially a proclitic
system, the sentences in (33a–c), for instance, all involve enclisis and are acceptable
in BP. In fact, the impersonal se is exceptional in BP in that in absence of proclisis trig-
gers, it is in general enclitic and this has surprising consequences. In order to examine
them, let us first consider the paradigm in (38) in BP, which involves clitics other than
impersonal se.
Passives and Se Constructions  331
(38) BP:
a. Me viram/*viram‐me no cinema.
me saw/*saw‐me in‐the movies
“People saw me at the movies.”
b. Eles não te criticaram/*criticaram‐te.
they not you criticized/criticized‐you
“They didn’t criticize you.”
c. Você deve, sem sombra de dúvida, se inscrever na competição.
you should without shadow of doubt   se register  in‐the competition
“No doubt you should register for the competition.”
d. *Você se deve/deve‐se,    sem     sombra de dúvida, inscrever na   competição.
you se should/should‐se without shadow of doubt register in‐the competition
“No doubt you should register for the competition.”
e. Você não deve, sem     conhecer as regras, se inscrever na competição.
you not should without knowing the rules se register in‐the competition
“You shouldn’t register for the competition without knowing the rules.”
f. *Você não se deve/deve‐se, sem conhecer as regras,
you not se should/should‐se without knowing the rules
inscrever na    competição.
register  in‐the competition
“You shouldn’t register for the competition without knowing the rules.”
Example (38a) shows that proclisis is required even if the clitic ends up in sentence
initial position. When auxiliaries are involved, the clitic procliticizes to the main verb,
as shown by the contrast between (38c) and (38d); in other words, clitic climbing is not
allowed. Interestingly, the presence of negation, which triggers proclisis in EP, does not
alter the basic pattern in BP, as shown in (38e) and (38f). This could be interpreted as
suggesting that once BP became a proclitic system, the old proclisis triggers became
vacuous in the new system.
Surprisingly, this very plausible analysis makes incorrect predictions for impersonal se, as
shown in (39).
(39) BP:
a. Contratou‐se/*Se contratou um novo professor.
hired‐se/se hired      a new teacher
“One hired a new teacher.”
b. Não se contratou/*contratou‐se um novo professor.
not se hired/hired‐se     a   new teacher
“One didn’t hire a new teacher.”
c. *Deve, sem    sombra de dúvida, se contratar um novo professor.
should without shade of doubt   se hire    a new teacher
d. Deve‐se, sem    sombra de dúvida, contratar um novo professor.
should‐se without shade of doubt hire    a new teacher
“No doubt one should hire a new professor.”
e. *Não deve, sem haver justa causa, se despedir um professor.
not should without having just cause se fire    a teacher
f. *Não deve‐se, sem haver justa causa, despedir um professor.
not should‐se without having just cause fire a teacher
g. Não se deve, sem haver justa causa, despedir um professor.
not se should without having just cause fire   a teacher
“One shall not fire a professor without just cause.”
332  Ana Maria Martins and Jairo Nunes
The paradigm in (39) shows that as opposed to the other clitics of BP, impersonal se must
encliticize in absence of a proclisis trigger; hence the contrast between (39a) and (39b).
Furthermore, when auxiliary verbs are involved, the clitic enclitizes to the finite auxiliary;
hence the contrast between (39c) and (39d). When negation is added to the picture, it triggers
proclisis to the finite auxiliary and not to the main verb (see (39e–g)). In other words, clitic
climbing is allowed with impersonal se in environments where this is not possible with other
clitics (cf. (38f)). In this regard, the positions occupied by the clitic in (38c–f), on the one hand,
and (39e–g), on the other, are especially revealing, for the reflexive and the impersonal clitic
are homophonous. This leads us to conclude that in BP, impersonal se has lexical specifica-
tions that set it apart from the other clitics of the language, including the third person
reflexive clitic, which is also spelled out as se.
Let us hold this conclusion for a moment and turn our attention to EP. Like other Romance
languages, EP does not allow impersonal se to co‐occur with reflexive se within the same
clause, as illustrated by the contrast between the monoclausal structures in (40) and the
biclausal structure in (41).
(40) a. *Levanta‐se‐se cedo neste país. (EP)
rises‐seIMP
‐seREFL
early in‐this country
“One gets up early in this country.”
b. *Vai‐se levantar‐se cedo amanhã. (EP)
goes‐seIMP
rise‐seREFL
early tomorrow
“People are going to get up early tomorrow.”
(41) Soube‐se ter‐se ele suicidado. (EP)
knew‐seIMP
have‐seREFL
he committed‐suicide
“It was heard that he committed suicide.”
Taking the contrast between (40) and (41) as a starting point, Martins and Nunes (2014a)
examine control structures in EP where the controller is the impersonal clitic se and the con-
trolled predicate has an instance of reflexive se. As shown in (42), the result they find is that
control structures behave like monoclausal structures as far as the co‐occurrence restriction
on the two clitics is concerned, regardless of the surface distance between the two clitics.
(42) EP:
a. *Quer‐se sentar‐se (e não se pode).
wants‐seIMP
sit seREFL
and not seIMP
can
“One wants to sit down but can’t.”
b. *Conseguiu‐se evitar sentar‐se na última fila.
managed‐seIMP
avoid sit‐seREFL
in‐the last row
“One managed to avoid sitting in the last row.’
c. *Tentou‐se conseguir evitar sentar‐se na última fila.
tried‐seIMP
manage avoid sit‐ seREFL
in‐the last row
“One tried to manage to avoid sitting in the last row.”
Martins and Nunes argue that the contrast between (41) and (42) can be accounted for if
one adopts the movement theory of control (see e.g. Hornstein 1999, 2001 and Boeckx,
Hornstein, and Nunes 2010). Since (41) does not involve control, each clitic is generated and
surfaces in a different clause. By contrast, from the perspective of the movement theory of
control, the impersonal clitic se in (42) should be generated in the most embedded clause and
then move to its surface position, leaving copies behind. That being so, we end having a copy
of impersonal se and the reflexive se in the most embedded clause, which should then be
ruled out by the co‐occurrence restriction that excludes the sentences in (40).
Passives and Se Constructions  333
Bearing this in mind, let us examine comparable data in BP. At first sight, (43) below
seems to show that BP behaves like EP in disallowing impersonal se and reflexive se in a local
domain.16
However, when the data in (44) below are taken into account, we realize that the
explanation cannot be as simple as that, for the two clitics are arguably within the same
domain but the result is grammatical.17
(43) *Pode‐se se sentar em qualquer lugar. (BP)
can.3sg‐seIMP
seREFL
sit in any place
“One can sit anywhere.”
(44) a. Não se pode se divertir com um barulho desses. (BP)
not seIMP
can seREFL
enjoy with a noise of‐these
“One can’t have a good time with such a level of noise.”
b. Não se deve se levantar tarde.
not seIMP
should seREFL
raise late
“One shouldn’t get up late.”
Our proposal is that what matters in BP is simply adjacency. Thus, the sentences in (44)
are well formed because the clitics are not adjacent to each other. In fact, sentences such as
(43) may become grammatical if parenthetical material disrupts the adjacency between the
two clitics, as illustrated in (45).
(45) Pode‐se, salvo engano, se sentar em qualquer lugar. (BP)
can‐seIMP
saving mistake seREFL
sit in any place
“I think one can sit in any place.”
Similar considerations apply to BP control configurations analogous to (42), where the
impersonal se is the controller and an embedded predicate contains the reflexive se. As
illustrated in (46) below, an ill‐formed results arises only if impersonal se and reflexive se
are adjacent. If phonetic material or a pause intervenes between the two clitics, the co‐
occurrence restriction is circumvented, as shown in (47).18
(46) a. *Tentou‐se se livrar do problema. (BP)
tried‐seIMP
seREFL
set.free of‐the problem
“One tried to get rid of the problem.”
b. *Esperava‐se se sentar na primeira fila. (BP)
expect‐seIMP
seREFL
sit in‐the first row
“One expected to be able to sit in the front row.”
(47) a. Tentou‐se de todas as formas se livrar do problema. (BP)
tried‐seIMP
of all the forms seREFL
set.free of‐the problem
“One tried in every possible way to get rid of the problem.”
b. Esperava‐se conseguir se sentar na primeira fila. (BP)
expect‐seIMP
manage seREFL
sit in‐the first row
“One expected to be able to sit in the front row.”
Assuming that something along these lines is on the right track, one wonders why EP
and BP behave so differently with respect to the conditions they impose for the restriction
on the co‐occurrence of impersonal and reflexive se. Our conjecture is that this has to do
with the exceptional properties of impersonal se in BP. In EP, the impersonal and the
reflexive are not only phonologically identical, but are subject to the exact same conditions
on syntactic clitic placement. By contrast, in BP only their phonetic spell‐out is identical, for
334  Ana Maria Martins and Jairo Nunes
they go completely separate ways as far as syntactic clitic placement goes. Thus, this co‐
occurrence restriction is more syntactic in nature in EP as it makes reference to clausal
domains but not to adjacency. By contrast, in BP the restriction is more phonological in
nature, making crucial reference to adjacency.19
4. Conclusion
In this chapter we have described participial passives (in particular, verbal passives as
opposed to adjectival passives) and passive se and impersonal se constructions in EP and BP
with respect to their agreement, case, word order, and interpretive properties. By and large,
we have seen that BP and EP essentially pattern similarly with respect to participial passives,
except when distinct grammatical properties of each dialect interfere (e.g. agreement and
clitic placement). However, the two dialects were shown to sharply split with respect to se
constructions: First, only EP productively allows passive se ­
constructions. And second, the
contextual distribution of impersonal se in BP and EP is considerably different.
Notes
“The first author had the support of FCT—Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia, under the project
WOChWEL (PTDC/CLE‐LIN/121707/2010)”. The second author has received support from CNPq
(grant 309036/2011-9)
1	 A discussion of other se‐constructions (reflexive/reciprocal structures, middles, and anticausatives,
for instance) falls outside the scope of this chapter.
2	 As opposed to languages like German, for instance, which allows passives of unergative verbs, as
illustrated in (i), this is not a possibility in Portuguese, as shown in (ii).
(i) Es wurde getanzt. (German, Jaeggli 1986)
it was danced
“There was dancing.”
(ii) *Foi dançado. (Portuguese)
was danced
“There was dancing.”
3	Orthographic conventions dictate that there must be a hyphen between a clitic and the verb it
attaches to in cases of enclisis, but not in cases of proclisis. In order to make the syntactic attachment
visually clearer in cases where the clitic is sandwiched between two verbs, as in (3b, c) and (4b–c),
for instance, some parenthetical material was added.
4	 Participles may display irregular short forms in tandem with regular forms, as illustrated in (i) below.
Significantly, passives require the short forms, which are more prone to be diachronically reanalyzed
as adjectives; by contrast, perfective compound tenses require the regular (longer) forms.
(i) a. O homicida foi preso /*prendido.
the murderer was arrested/arrested
“The murderer was arrested.”
b. A polícia tinha prendido/*preso o  homicida.
the police had arrested/arrested the murderer
“The police had arrested the murderer.”
5	Once these sentences are independently explained away, the ungrammaticality of (3a) then shows that
EP does not allow enclisis to a participle, regardless of whether or not it bears agreement morphology. It
remains to be explained why a perfective participle may license proclisis (in a proclitic system; see (3b)),
Passives and Se Constructions  335
but not enclisis (in an enclitic system; see (3a)). In fact, when a proclisis trigger, like negation in (i)
below, comes into play, procliticization to the participle becomes available also in EP:
(i) Eles têm sistematicamente não me informado. (EP)
they have systematically not me informed
“They have systematically kept back information unknown to me.”
6	 See also, among others, Levin and Rappaport 1986. On the distinction between two types of adjectival
passives, namely, resultatives (with auxiliary ficar “stay”) and statives (with auxiliaries ser/estar “be”), see
e.g. Embick 2004, Alexiadou and Anagnostopoulou 2008, Duarte and Oliveira 2010, and Duarte 2013.
7	 Verbal passives are typically formed with eventive verbs and exclude different types of stative
transitive verbs, as illustrated in (i) below (from Duarte 2013).
(i) a. *A melhor nota da turma foi tida pelo João.
the best grade of‐the class was had by‐the João
“João had the best grade in the class.”
b. *Esses terrenos eram possuídos por um alemão.
these lots were owned by a German
“These lots were owned by a German.”
c. *Cinquenta quilos eram pesados por mim no ano passado.
fifty kilos were weighted by me in‐the year past
“Last year I weighed fifty kilos.”
8	 See Simioni 2011 for relevant discussion.
9	 For relevant discussion, see e.g. Naro 1976, Galves 1986, 1987, Cinque 1988, Nunes 1990, 1991,
Raposo and Uriagereka 1996, and Cavalcante 2006.
10	 The impersonal se construction in (16b) may in fact be judged as acceptable with a marked intona-
tion, conventionally represented by a comma, as shown in (i). The non‐neutral informational status
of the internal argument in these cases indicates that it moves not to the subject position, but to a
higher Aʹ‐position in the left periphery. Crucially, the passive se construction in (16a) does not
require any special intonation in order to be licensed.
(i) Os bolos, comeu‐se ontem.
the cookies ate.3sg‐se yesterday
“Someone ate the cookies yesterday.”
11	 Sentences like (18b) are attested in the dialectal corpus CORDIAL‐SIN, as illustrated below.
Unfortunately, all the examples in the corpus display a third person singular accusative clitic.
(i) %EP:
a. Deixa‐se‐a crescer.
let.3sg‐se‐it.acc grow (CORDIAL‐SIN, PST)
“We/people let it grow up.”
b. Pode‐se‐a guardar na freezer. (CORDIAL‐SIN, STE)
can.3sg‐se‐it.acc keep in‐the freezer
“One can keep it in the refrigerator.”
c. Abre‐se‐o de um metro de fundura e um metro de largura. (CORDIAL‐SIN, ALC)
open.3sg‐se‐it.acc of one meter of deepness and one meter of wideness
“We/People open a hole one meter deep and one meter wide.”
d. Mas carregava‐se‐o aí às vezes também nos carros de bestas. (CORDIAL‐SIN, MLD)
but carried.3sg‐se‐it.acc there at times also in‐the cars of animals
“But sometimes people would also carry it in horse wagons.”
12	 See e.g. Jaeggli 1986 and Baker, Johnson and Roberts 1989.
13	 (21d) is grammatical in BP under an impersonal reading due to the fact that elas may check accusa-
tive with the verb, as it is a syncretic form for nominative, accusative, dative, and oblique (Similar
considerations apply to the other third person weak pronouns in BP).
14	 (31b) and (32b) also allow an irrelevant reflexive reading if the DP os culpados “the culprits” has
narrow focus.
15	 For relevant discussion, see e.g. Gonçalves 1999 and Wurmbrand 2001.
336  Ana Maria Martins and Jairo Nunes
16	 Sentences without auxiliaries such as (40a), repeated below in (i), are also ungrammatical in BP.
However, this is not very telling, for the reflexive is in an enclitic position and this is independently
ruled out in BP, as seen in (38). (ib) controls for this noise (the reflexive se is proclitic and the imper-
sonal se, enclitic), but the result is still unacceptable, presumably because movement of the reflexive
across the impersonal se induces a minimality violation.
(i) a. *Levanta‐se‐se cedo neste país. (BP)
rises‐seIMP
‐seREFL
early in‐this country
(BP)
b. *Se levanta‐se cedo neste país.
seREFL
rises‐seIMP
early in‐this country
“One gets up early in this country.”
17	 Martins and Nunes (2014a, b) argue that (strong) phases, rather than clauses, constitute the rele-
vant domain for computing the co‐occurrence restriction involving indefinite and reflexive se.
Thus, the two instances of se in the sentences of (43) and (44) may fall within the same strong
phasal domain even if modals in BP are also to be analysed as raising verbs, for the light verb asso-
ciated with raising verbs is assumed to be defective and not head a strong phase (see Chomsky
2001). For purposes of exposition, we will put this refinement aside, as it does not affect the
reasoning to be presented below. See Martins and Nunes (2014a, b) for relevant discussion.
18	 Pauses are more naturally inserted between a control verb and its infinitival complement than bet-
ween an auxiliary and the main verb, as illustrated in (i) below. Accordingly, pauses are able to
circumvent the co‐occurrence restriction on two instances of se in (iia) in BP, but not in (iib).
(i) a. Alguém tentou # sair mais cedo. (BP)
someone tried leave more early
“Someone tried to leave earlier.”
b. ??Alguém vai # sair mais cedo. (BP)
someone goes leave more early
“Someone is going to leave earlier.”
(ii) a. Tentou‐se # se levantar mais cedo. (BP)
tried‐seIMP
seREFL
rise more early
“One tried to get up earlier.”
b. *Vai‐se # se levantar mais cedo. (BP)
goes‐seIMP
seREFL
rise more early
“One is going get up earlier.”
19	 Also consistent with the phonological nature of the restriction in BP is the fact that, as opposed to
EP, it does not allow the complementizer se ‘if’ and impersonal se to be adjacent, as shown in (i).
Thanks to Carolina França (p.c.) for bringing this point to our attention.
(i) a. Se se contratar um novo professor, os problemas serão resolvidos. (EPOK
BP*)
if seIMP
hire a new teacher, the problems will.be solved
“If a new teacher is hired, the problems will be solved.”
b. Se não se contratar um novo professor, os problemas não serão resolvidos. (EPOK
BPOK
)
if not seIMP
hire a new teacher, the problems not will.be solved
“If a new teacher is not hired, the problems won’t be solved.”
References
Alexiadou, A. and E. Anagnostopoulou (2008).
Structuring participles. In C. B. Changa and
H. J. Haynie (eds.), Proceedings of the 26th West
Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics,
pp. 33–41.
Baker, M., K. Johnson, and I. Roberts (1989).
Passive arguments raised. Linguistic Inquiry, 20
(2), pp. 219–251.
Boeckx, C., N. Hornstein, and J. Nunes (2010).
Control as Movement. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Cavalcante, S. R. de O. (2006). O uso do se
indefinido na história do português: Do
português clássico ao português europeu e
brasileiro modernos. Ph.D. dissertation,
Unicamp.
Passives and Se Constructions  337
Chomsky, N. (2001). Derivation by phase.
In M. Kenstowicz (ed.), Ken Hale: A Life in
Language. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, pp. 1–52.
Cinque, G. (1988). On si constructions and the
theory of arb. Linguistic Inquiry, 19,
pp. 521–581.
CORDIAL‐SIN: Syntax‐oriented Corpus of
Portuguese Dialects. http://www.clul.ul.pt/
resources/212‐cordial‐sin‐syntax‐oriented‐
corpus‐of‐portuguese‐dialects, accessed
November 4, 2015.
Duarte, I. (2013). Construções ativas, passivas,
incoativas e médias. In E. B. P. Raposo, M. F.
Bacelar do Nascimento, M. A. C. da Mota,
L. Segura, and A. Mendes (eds.), Gramática do
Português, vol. 1. Lisbon: Fundação Calouste
Gulbenkian, pp. 427–458.
Duarte, I. and F. Oliveira (2010). Particípios
resultativos. In A. M. Brito, F. Oliveira,
J. Veloso, and A. Fiéis (eds.), Textos Selecionados
do XXV Encontro Nacional da Associação
Portuguesa de Linguística. Porto: Associação
Portuguesa de Linguística, pp. 397–408.
Embick, D. (2004). On the structure of resultative
predicates in English. Linguistic Inquiry, 35 (3),
pp. 355–392.
Galves, C. (1986). Aluga‐(se) casas: Um problema de
sintaxe portuguesa na Teoria de Regência e
Vinculação. Campinas: Preedição 2.
Galves, C. (1987). A sintaxe do Português
Brasileiro. Ensaios de Linguística, 13, pp. 31–50.
Gonçalves, A. (1999). Predicados complexos
verbais em contextos de infinitivo não
preposicionado do português europeu. Ph.D.
dissertation, Universidade de Lisboa.
Hornstein, N. (1999). Movement and control.
Linguistic Inquiry, 30, pp. 69–96.
Hornstein, N. (2001). Move! A Minimalist Theory of
Construal. Oxford: Blackwell.
Jeaggli, O. (1986). Passive. Linguistic Inquiry, 17,
pp. 587–633.
Levin, B. and M. Rappaport (1986). The
formation of adjectival passives. Linguistic
Inquiry, 17 (4), pp. 623–661.
Martins, A. M. (2013). Posição dos pronomes
pessoais clíticos. In E. B. P. Raposo, M. F.
Bacelar do Nascimento, M. A. C. da Mota, L.
Segura, and A. Mendes (eds.), Gramática do
Português, vol. 2. Lisbon: Fundação Calouste
Gulbenkian, pp. 2229–2302.
Martins, A. M. (2009). Subject doubling in
European Portuguese dialects: the role of
impersonal se. In E. O. Aboh, E. van der
Linden, J. Quer and P. Sleeman (eds.), Romance
Languages and Linguistic Theory. Selected papers
from “Going Romance” Amsterdam 2007.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins,
pp. 179‐200.
Martins, A. M. and J. Nunes (2005). Raising
issues in Brazilian and European Portuguese.
Journal of Portuguese Linguistics, 4, 53–77.
Martins, A. M. and J. Nunes (2014a). Co‐
occurrence restrictions on clitics in European
Portuguese and minimalist approaches to
control. Manuscript, Universidade de Lisboa
and Universidade de São Paulo.
Martins, A. M. and J. Nunes (2014b).
Identicalness avoidance effects in European
Portuguese: a case study on phasal transfer.
Manuscript, Universidade de Lisboa and
Universidade de São Paulo.
Naro, A. (1976). The genesis of the reflexive
impersonal in Portuguese: a study in syntactic
change as a surface phenomenon. Language, 52,
pp. 779–811.
Nunes, J. (1990). O famigerado se: Uma análise
sincrónica e diacrónica das construções com se
apassivador e indeterminador. Masters
dissertation, Unicamp.
Nunes, J. (1991). Se apassivador e se
indeterminador: o percurso diacrônico no
português brasileiro. Cadernos de Estudos
Lingüísticos, 20, pp. 33–58.
Raposo, E. and J. Uriagereka (1996). Indefinite se.
Linguistic Inquiry, 14, pp. 749–810.
Simioni, L. (2011). Concordância em construções
passivas com argumentos pré e posverbais e
incorporação de nomes nus no PB. Ph.D.
dissertation, Universidade de São Paulo.
Wasow, T. (1977). Transformations and the
lexicon. In P. W. Culicover and A. Akmajian
(eds.), Formal Syntax. New York: Academic
Press, pp. 327–360.
Wurmbrand, S. (2001). Infinitives: Restructuring
and Clause Structure. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
In this chapter we discuss some of the properties of pronominal forms in the two main vari‑
eties of Portuguese—European Portuguese (EP) and Brazilian Portuguese (BP)—from the
perspective of “Binding Theory” (BT).1
Specifically, we focus on a few basic patterns of 3rd
person anaphora bearing on some of BT’s central issues, such as the nature of binding
domains and of the complementary‐like distribution of pronouns and other forms that com‑
pete for bound variable readings (like reflexives and null subjects). We start by summarizing
the theoretical perspective of our discussion.
One of the main problems of standard BT was the arbitrariness of the definition of binding
domain, involving notions such as “governing category”, “accessible subject”, etc. These
notions were particular to BT, with no clear independent motivation; hence, much research
was dedicated to relating BT principles to more “natural” notions of domain (see Menuzzi
1999, Reuland 2011, Safir 2004, 2013). Standard BT was also conceptually frail with respect to
the nature of the DP types and their complementary‐like distribution (Burzio 1991, Menuzzi
1999, Safir 2004). The typology remains a stipulation if DPs are simply lexically classified as
“anaphor”, “pronominal” and “R‐expression”—that is, if their type is not derived from their
independent properties. Hence, the need to relate binding principles explicitly to inherent
properties of DPs, as in Reinhart and Reuland’s (1993) framework (R&R, from now on).
Consider R&R’s Principle B, reformulated as a condition on reflexive predicates:
(1)  Condition B (R&R 1993):
If a predicate is reflexive, it must be reflexive‐marked.
Note that the domain of the condition is independently required (e.g. for argument selec‑
tion). Now, complex anaphors containing a SELF form function as “reflexive‐markers”; but
pronouns and se‐forms do not (R&R 1993, Safir 2004).2
Thus, in the domain of a reflexive‐
predicate, a complex form, and not a se‐form or a pronoun, will be required, as in Dutch:
(2) Jan haat {zichzelf/*zich/*hem}.
Jan hates {se‐SELF / se / him}
“Jan hates himself / *him.”
Binding and Pronominal Forms
in Portuguese
Sergio Menuzzi and Maria Lobo
18
Binding and Pronominal Forms in Portuguese  339
Hence, part of the complementarity does relate to the morphosyntactic constitution of
DPs—namely, if they may function as reflexive‐markers or not. The strategy can be general‑
ized. Consider “inherently reflexive” predicates, that is, predicates whose semantics‐
pragmatics is such that they are either necessarily or very often interpreted as reflexive (e.g.,
“behave” or “wash”). According to R&R, these predicates are “lexically marked” for reflex‑
ivity; hence, SELF forms are not required and, in principle, either a se‐form or a pronoun will
be available. But actually only the se‐form is:
(3)  Max wast {zich/*hem}
Max washes {se/him}
“Max washes (himself/*him).”
To account for this contrast, R&R invoke another type of constraint, operating on the
domain of chains—that is, on anaphoric dependencies that fit the chain format:
(4) Chain Condition (R&R 1993):

Only the head of a chain (the antecedent) must be [+R], that is, fully specified for φ‐­
features (person, number, gender and case).
The effect of (4) is to impose a constraint we may call chain economy: the tail of an anaphoric
chain must be [‐R], i.e., not specified for φ‐features. Now, se‐anaphors are unspecified for
many φ‐features, and pronouns are specified for most; hence, in R&R’s framework, the pro‑
noun is excluded in (3). Note: the chain condition applies to an independently motivated
grammatical domain (chains) and is sensitive to inherent properties of the DP (its φ‐feature
specification). In Section 3 we discuss Portuguese facts that seem to provide interesting evi‑
dence for this chains‐and‐reflexivity approach: there is an asymmetry in local binding in
both EP and BP, bound pronouns being allowed only in PPs, and not in transitive‐like
structures.
If the distribution of DPs were to result only from the interaction of universal constraints
and inherent properties of DPs, languages would develop specialized forms to satisfy all
constraints. But this is not the case. For example, English has no se‐anaphor, only pronouns
and the corresponding reflexive‐markers: him/himself, her/herself, etc. Hence, either the Chain
Condition does not apply to English (hence, it is not universal), or we must claim that himself
is [–R], like a se‐form. Similar cases abound across anaphoric systems: in many languages
pronouns can be locally bound because there are no corresponding reflexives (e.g. 1st and
2nd person pronouns in Romance); R‐expressions can be bound if the language has no
independent set of pronouns (see Lasnik 1989), etc. This aspect of binding systems has been
incorporated in recent versions of BT, which assume bound forms “compete” for best‐
formation of anaphoric dependencies (Burzio 1991, Menuzzi 1999, Safir 2004). The idea is
supported by many phenomena discussed in Sections 3 and 4: the availability of bound pro‑
nouns in transitive structures in some varieties of BP; the differences between EP and BP
with respect to long‐distance binding; the competition between pronouns and other forms
with quantificational antecedents.
Finally, concerning the interpretive nature of the binding relation, it is widely accepted
that the basic distinction to be made is that between coreference and bound‐variable interpreta‑
tions (cf. Reinhart 1983; Safir 2014 for recent discussion). Crucially, binding corresponds only
to bound‐variable relations: (a) DPs that cannot be interpreted as bound‐variables cannot be
bound (e.g. proper names); (b) canonical anaphors are interpreted as bound variables (e.g. the
Portuguese reflexive se); (c) in general, bound‐variable readings are dependent on c‐command
or similar relations. As we will see in section 4, φ‐feature impoverished forms in Portuguese
tend to be bound forms and to require local antecedents, and their availability seems to con‑
strain bound readings for pronouns, in an effect similar to chain economy effects (like in (3)).
340  Sergio Menuzzi and Maria Lobo
Table 18.1  System of pronominal forms of EP.
Singular Plural
1st person
2nd person
3rd person 1st person 2nd person 3rd person
familiar unfam.
Subject eu
pro
tu
pro
vocêa
pro
ele
pro
nós
pro
[vós] vocês
pro
eles
pro
Direct object ‐me ‐te ‐o ‐o
null
‐nos [‐os]
‐vos
‐os
null
Reflexive ‐me ‐te ‐se ‐se ‐nos ‐se ‐se
Preposition‐
governed
mim ti si [você] ele nós vocês eles
Reflexive mim ti si si nós vocês [si] si
Possessive meu teu seu seu
dele
nosso [seu]
vosso
seu
dele
Note
a
 Explicit use of você is a marked strategy in EP. Usually, one uses a null pronoun or a full DP
corresponding to the proper noun of the addressee, his title or his kinship relation with the speaker.
2.  Pronominal forms in current Portuguese
Here we present just a brief summary of the pronominal systems of EP and BP, to give an
impression of the different sets of oppositions—this will be relevant later on.3
Table 18.1
below summarizes the EP system (underlined forms are those in which EP differs from stan‑
dard Portuguese; forms between brackets are standard forms out of use in EP).
EP is considered a typical null subject language—hence, it has null subjects (pro) for all
persons, and subject forms are used only under specific pragmatic demands (emphasis,
­
contrast, etc.). Like Italian and Spanish, EP null subjects are licensed by a rich set of verb
forms inflected for subject agreement: most tenses have four forms, and some have five. Still
like other Romance languages, EP has a full system of “clitic pronouns” (signaled by hyphen),
most of which are missing in current BP (see Table 18.2, in the next page). Side by side with
clitics, EP also makes significant use of “null objects”, an innovation it shares with BP.
Because null objects seem to behave as R‐expressions in both EP and BP, they are not dis‑
cussed here (see Chapter 17, this volume).
An important aspect of the EP system is that the 2nd person form você “you” is gram-
matically 3rd person; though it has mixed with the old 2nd person series (Lara 2015), it also
combines with many 3rd person forms. (For the history of você, see Chapter 31, this volume.)
A peculiar consequence is that EP uses the reflexive si as the preposition‐governed form for
você, giving rise to ambiguous sentences:
(5)  Pedroi
comprou esta cadeira para sii/j
. (i = Pedro; j = listener)
Pedro bought this chair for se
“Pedroi
has bought this chair for himselfi
/ youj
”
This use is limited to singular 2nd person. And it is not found in BP.
With respect to the 3rd person possessives, normative grammars insist that the correct
form is seu “his/her/their”, but admit dele “of‐him” in case seu leads to “ambiguity”.
Binding and Pronominal Forms in Portuguese  341
However, both seu and dele are used in EP, though not with the same distribution; the same
is true of BP (see below). Note that seu “his/her/their” is specified only for the grammatical
person (3rd) of the antecedent, and not for its gender or number. In this, seu is similar to the
reflexives se and si, and differs from the alternative series dele/dela/deles/delas “of‐him/of‑her/
of‐them(m)/of‐them(f)”.
The EP system preserves most of the forms of the system described by normative
grammars. BP, on the other hand, has been affected by numerous changes, some still
underway, resulting in a lot of variation. Table 18.2 above provides an approximate picture
of the system (see Neves 2008, and Chapters 28 and 31, this volume; the forms in brackets are
still available for some speakers, but likely to become obsolete).
We would like to call attention to three features of the above system.
First, Table 18. 2 shows that BP has many new forms: você has taken over the function of
2nd person pronouns (the tu / te / ti series remaining in some dialects); a new form, o senhor
(“the gentleman”), has been generalized as a formal 2nd person; and a gente (“the people”)
has almost entirely taken over the space of old 1st person plural nós, with a few forms of this
series still remaining.4
Crucially, all new forms differ in semantic specification; grammatically,
they are all 3rd person; as a consequence, Table 18.2 shows that old 3rd person forms like
possessive seu and reflexive se are shared by many semantic persons. (On reflexive si, see 3.2
below.)
Second, related to this, the verb paradigm has also shrunk. In most tenses there are only
two forms: grammatical 3rd person plural for vocês and eles vs. a unique form for other
­
persons (corresponding to the old 3rd person singular form); in some tenses (e.g. simple pre‑
sent), there is an additional form (for 1st person singular). Probably as a consequence of this
poor system of verb agreement, null subjects are quite restricted in BP, to the point that some
claim BP is becoming a non‐null subject language; only 3rd person null subjects are still fre‑
quent (see Barbosa, Duarte and Kato 2005 for overview).
Finally, another crucial change is the loss of most 3rd person clitics: the direct object forms
o(s)/a(s) have disappeared altogether; the only surviving clitic is se, which is still in use as a
reflexive, but is quickly shrinking in its other uses (e.g. as a marker of verb diathesis; see sec‑
tion 3.1). In the place of the direct object clitics, BP makes use either of the standard subject
form ele, or of null objects.
Table 18.2  System of pronominal forms in BP.
Singular Plural
1st person
2nd person
3rd person 1st person 2nd Person 3rd person
equal respect
Subject eu
[pro]
você
[pro]
o senhor
[pro]
ele
pro
a gente
[pro]
vocês
[pro]
eles
[pro]
Direct object me‐ te‐
você
o senhor ele
null
a gente
[nos‐]
vocês eles
null
Reflexive me‐ se‐ se‐ se‐ se‐ se‐ se‐
Preposition‐
governed
mim você o senhor ele a gente vocês eles
Reflexive mim você [si] o senhor [si] ele [si] a gente [si] vocês [si] eles [si]
Possessive meu seu [teu] seu seu
dele
nosso
da gente
seu
de vocês
seu
deles
342  Sergio Menuzzi and Maria Lobo
3.  Binding domains in Portuguese
3.1.  Binding in transitive structures
EP follows the general pattern of Romance: pronominal clitics are excluded if the antecedent
is the local subject, and a reflexive must be used (6a), and the reverse happens if the ante‑
cedent is non‐local (6b) (Brito, Duarte and Matos 2003).
(6)  a.  João não {se/*o} reconheceu naquela foto. (EP)
João not {se/him} recognized in‐that picture.
“João did not recognize {himself/*him} in that picture.”
b. João disse que tu não {o/*se} reconheceste naquela foto.
“João said that you did not recognize {him/*himself} in that picture.” 
In case reflexivity needs emphasis or contrast, EP resorts to a tonic form governed by the
preposition a “to”; it can be either the reflexive si or a full 3rd person pronoun, and the
construction may be clitic‐doubled, but only with the reflexive clitic.
(7)  João não {se/*o} reconheceu a {si/ele} próprio naquela foto. (EP)
João not {se/him} recognized to {se/him} own in‐that picture.
“João did not recognize himself in that picture.”
These facts do not pose a challenge to current versions of BT. In particular, where the pro‑
noun looks locally bound, it is “reinforced” by a SELF form (próprio ou mesmo)—so, it
functions “like a reflexive‐marker”, satisfying R&R’s version of Principle B.5
As for BP, recall it lost 3rd person accusative pronominal clitics, substituted by null objects
and the full pronoun ele. Moreira da Silva (1983) claimed that, additionally, the 3rd person
reflexive se form was lost as well: with inherently reflexive and similar verbs, it would have
been substituted by zero (8a);6
with non‐inherently reflexive, truly biargumental verbs, by
full pronouns—not necessarily modified by a SELF form (8b):
(8)  a.  Inherently reflexive verbs: (BP∅)
Pedro queixou/arrependeu/comportou {∅/*ele (mesmo)}.
Pedro complained/repented/behaved {∅/him (same)}
“Pedro complained/repented/behaved (himself).”
b. Non‐inherently reflexive verbs:
Pedro reconheceu/desenhou/criticou {ele / ele mesmo}.
Pedro recognized/drew/criticized {him/him same}
“Pedro has recognized/drawn/criticized himself.”
Moreira da Silva’s claim was addressed by subsequent literature, and a lot of variation was
found; but the existence of dialects that have lost reflexives altogether was confirmed (hence,
“BP∅
”). Such dialects are found in the southeast region, especially in the states of Minas
Gerais and São Paulo (d’Albuquerque 1984, Pereira 2007).
The tendency to drop reflexives with inherently reflexive‐like verbs is also found in the
main urban dialects, but with varying degrees of generalization—some verb classes actually
resist reflexive dropping (Rodrigues and Pereira 2006, Pereira 2007). In such dialects, explicit
reflexives, i.e. se and the form [pronoun + SELF], are preferred over zero with truly
Binding and Pronominal Forms in Portuguese  343
biargumental verbs; some claimed the unmodified pronoun ele can be used as well, but this
is less clear. Thus, for such dialects, the pattern looks like:
(9)  a.  Inherently reflexive verbs: (BPse
)
Pedro {se/∅} queixou / arrependeu / comportou {*ele (mesmo)}.
Pedro {se/Ø} complained / repented / behaved {him (same)} 
b. Non‐inherently reflexive verbs:
Pedro {se} reconheceu/desenhou/criticou {ele mesmo/??ele}.
Pedro recognized/drew/criticized {him same/him}
This pattern covers dialects that preserve the reflexive se to varying degrees (hence, “BPse
”),
including educated urban dialects (Neves 2008; Menuzzi 1999).
The occurrence of a complex form [pronoun + SELF] in (9b) is not particularly problem‑
atic, but the use of an unmodified full pronoun would require some explanation, even for
current BT (see below). Recent studies suggest, however, that the relevant occurrences are
pragmatically motivated and include cases of “accidental coreference” (as suggested by
Galves 1986; cf. Grolla and Bertolino 2012, Bertolino 2013).
Let us now turn to the analysis of the patterns presented, beginning with inherently
reflexive verbs. These are marked in the lexicon for reflexive interpretation; hence, they need
no independent reflexive marker, and complex forms [pronoun + SELF] are excluded, which
is correct for all varieties. The variation is related to two parameters: (a) P1: whether the
variety possesses forms that function as morphosyntactic markers for lexical operations like
reflexive marking, verb diatheses, etc.; (b) P2: how generally the variety uses such markers.
Of course, the relevant markers are the reflexive clitics in Portuguese (and in Romance in
general).
P1 separates EP and BPse
from BP∅
: BP∅
does not have clitics, and operations like lexical
reflexivity etc. are not morphosyntactically signalled—hence, zero marking. P2 divides EP
and BPse
. In EP, reflexives regularly mark lexical operations on verbs; only particular verbs
may idiosyncratically dispense with such marking. For BPse
—perhaps as a result of the
increasing restrictions on reflexives—we anticipate two cases (and maybe intermediate
ones). In dialects closer to BP∅
, clitics are not used to mark lexical operations systematically;
only particular verbs still associate with se idiosyncratically. More conservative dialects
make regular use of clitics for some lexical processes (e.g. lexical reflexivity) but not for
others (e.g. some verb diatheses).
Now consider binding with non‐inherently reflexive verbs. Some such verbs will favor a
reflexive interpretation (e.g., naturally reflexive predicates like “wash”) and will not require
reflexive marking. Hence, complex forms [pronoun + SELF] are unnecessary (hence, disfa‑
vored); pronouns and clitic reflexives are left as options. Here comes in the condition
requiring morphosyntactic economy of bound forms—in R&R’s framework, the chain
condition.
If this condition is categorical, it should exclude bound pronouns. This is correct for EP or
BPse
: the pronoun is excluded, but se is not, as required. However, BP∅
will be a problem: it
will be necessary to argue that pronouns in BP∅
do not violate chain economy. In R&R’s
framework, they will have to be [‐R]; however, there is no relevant difference between full
pronouns in BP∅
and BPse
. If economy is somehow relativized—e.g. by admitting that condi‑
tions are violable, and the best form is the one that violates less conditions—then BP∅
will
follow: it does not have se, hence no form is more economical than full pronouns, which are
allowed (as in Frisian; cf. Menuzzi 1999).
As for verbs that disfavor a reflexive interpretation, we might expect complex [pronoun +
SELF] forms to be required, and non‐reflexive markers excluded, including the clitic se (on a
par with, say, zich in Dutch). But this is not the case: verbs like criticar “criticize”, agredir “be
344  Sergio Menuzzi and Maria Lobo
agressive with, assault” can be used with se alone, without a SELF form. Apparently, the
conclusion must be that clitic reflexives count as reflexive‐markers both in EP and BPse
. This
makes sense, since they are morphosyntactic markers of lexical operations (Reuland 1990,
Baauw and Delfitto 2005).
3.2.  Binding into PPs
Following Menuzzi (1999), binding of full pronouns inside PPs has received some attention
both in EP (Estrela 2006) and in BPse
(Bertolino 2013, Vieira 2014). The basic pattern described
by Menuzzi was confirmed for both varieties: as first observed by Zribi‐Hertz (1980) for
French, acceptability of locally bound pronouns inside PPs depends on the pragmatics‐
semantics of the predicate; specifically, the more the predicate favors a reflexive interpreta‑
tion, the more a pronoun is acceptable; and inversely for the complex form [pronoun +
SELF]:
(10)  a.  reflexivity obligatory:
João tem para {ele / ??ele mesmo} que Maria está grávida. (BPse
/EP)
	{si / ??si mesmo} (BPse/si
/EP)
João has to {him (same) / se (same)} that Maria is pregnant
“João tells to {himself / *him} (=believes) that Maria is pregnant.”
b. reflexivity possible:
Paulo só fala {dele/dele mesmo}. (BPse
/EP)
	{de si/de si mesmo} (BPse/si
/EP)
“Paulo talks only about {himself/*him}.”
c. reflexivity unlikely:
Maria luta contra {ela mesma/??ela}, mas o vício é forte. (BPse
/EP)
	{si mesma/?si} (BPse/si
/EP)
“Maria fights against {herself/*her}, but the vice is strong.”
Though EP and BPse
are alike with respect to bound pronouns in PPs, it is unclear what
the status of the preposition‐governed reflexive si is in BPse
. Many authors put this form
aside on the grounds that it is uncommon in spoken language (Bertolino 2013). Indeed,
there is indirect evidence for its restricted use (Vieira 2014), but we are unaware of any
deeper study. The form seems to be available for educated BPse
speakers (Neves 2008),
who may have incorporated it through intense contact with written language. We refer to
this variety as BPse/si
. In EP, si is fully acceptable, on a par with full pronouns, and often
preferred, especially when modified by próprio (Estrela 2006, Lobo 2013). For both BPse/si
and EP, the distribution of SELF forms with si is similar to that with pronouns. As for BP∅
,
we presume the lack of si restricts the possible patterns to those containing pronouns
in (10).
As regards the analysis of binding into PPs, the main question is: how to explain the
­
possibility of locally bound pronouns in EP and BPse
, as opposed to their unavailability in
transitive structures? The problem does not arise with BP∅
: whatever is said for local binding
of pronouns in transitive structures can be extended to binding into PPs. But EP and BPse
(as
well as other Romance languages) do pose a problem for standard BT: as Menuzzi (1999)
argues, the notion of “governing category”, being structurally defined, cannot distinguish
the types of complement PPs that may or may not allow locally bound pronouns without ad
hoc assumptions.
The chains‐and‐reflexivity framework, on the other hand, offers a natural explanation
(Menuzzi 1999): there is no movement out of PPs in Portuguese, hence no chain is formed by
binding pronouns across PPs; if no chain is formed, pronouns are not affected by the chain
Binding and Pronominal Forms in Portuguese  345
condition. Hence, the only active constraints are the reflexivity‐marking conditions; a SELF
form will be required only if the semantics/pragmatics of the predicate disfavors a reflexive
interpretation. This correctly predicts the pattern first uncovered by Zribi‐Hertz (1980). Note
that nothing similar happens in transitive structures because direct objects do move (e.g. in
passives)—hence, binding of pronouns in transitive structures does violate chain economy.
Recently, Grolla (2005) and Bertolino (2013) explored an approach based on Hornstein
(2001)’s reinterpretation of BT in terms of movement. Crudely put, anaphors—e.g. reflexives
in English—would be spell‐outs of NP traces; and pronouns would be “elsewhere forms”,
that is, used when reflexives are excluded (because movement is excluded). This predicts the
same basic distribution the chains‐and‐reflexivity analysis predicts: ­
pronouns will be
excluded in transitive structures and allowed within complement PPs. Still, where the two
analyses differ, the chains‐and‐reflexiviy framework seems to do better.
First, the movement analysis has nothing to say about SELF modification and its correla‑
tion with the semantics‐pragmatics of the predicate. That is, the movement analysis will
need a reflexivity component anyway. Besides, it claims that pronouns are a kind of last
resort device, available only when a reflexive is not. But, without further ado, this accounts
only for languages where pronouns and reflexives are in neat complementary distribution.
Bertolino (2013) claims this is the case of BPse
, which would not possess the reflexive si.
Assume this is correct (ignoring BPse/si
). Still, there is EP, where full pronouns and the reflexive
si are viable options within PPs. The chains‐and‐reflexivity analysis, on  the other hand,
accounts for the three varieties of Portuguese without ad hoc assumptions.
3.3.  Long‐distance binding of se
It is well‐known that languages may allow long‐distance binding—i.e. across a clause
boundary—of se‐forms (Koster and Reuland 1991). This was the case of Latin and it is known
to be possible in Italian as well (Napoli 1979). The following example illustrates the possi‑
bility in EP (from Brito, Duarte and Matos 2003; see also Menuzzi 1996):
(11)  Maria soube directamente do João [que alguém tinha falado mal de si]. (EP)
Maria knew directly from‐the João that somebody had spoken ill of se
“Maria heard directly from João [that somebody spoke ill of her].”
The example shows the main properties of long‐distance bound se in Romance: it is subject‐
oriented (the antecedent must be Maria, and cannot be João), and it must be a non‐clitic
form—the clitic se is totally unacceptable in a similar context:
(12)  *Maria soube directamente do João que alguém se tinha difamado (EP)
Maria knew directly from‐the João that somebody se had maligned
“Maria heard directly from João that somebody maligned her.”
Crucially, long‐distance binding of se indicates that EP si has a different status from BP si.
Even BPse/si
speakers do not accept sentences like (11). Some accept long‐distance bound si
under very favorable conditions, as in (13), where binding is across an infinitival clause
boundary and the antecedent is “nobody”, which strongly disfavors a full pronoun (14) (see
section 4 below).
(13)  Ninguém jamais me ouviu [falar mal {de si / ??dele}]. (BPse/si
/EP)
“Nobody ever heard [me speak ill of {him / *himself}].” 
(14)  Ninguém carrega dinheiro {consigo / ??com ele}. (BPse/si
/EP)
“Nobody carries money with himself.”
346  Sergio Menuzzi and Maria Lobo
Note that the contrasts in (13) and (14) are also found in EP (Menuzzi 1996, Estrela 2006),
from which we presume that the constraint disfavoring full pronouns with “nobody” ante‑
cedents is active in EP as well.
Summing up: long‐distance binding of si is possible in EP under conditions similar to
those found in languages like Latin and Italian; in BP, it may be available for educated
speakers of BPse/si
, but only under very favorable conditions. (Of course, it is not available for
BP∅
speakers.) Thus, there are basically two things to be explained: (a) the fact that clitic se,
unlike preposition‐governed si, does not enter long‐distance dependencies; (b) the avail‑
ability of long‐distance binding of EP si vis‐à‐vis the restriction on si in BP, even for educated
BPse/si
speakers.
The unavailability of the clitic se for long‐distance binding is no mystery; rather, it is a
well‐known restriction on clitic se‐reflexives in general, long established in the literature
(Napoli 1979, Reuland 1990). Most proposals see this restriction as further evidence that
the clitic reflexive, rather than a free syntactic argument, is a morphosyntactic marker
for lexical operations, which of course ensures local binding (Reuland 1990, Baauw and
Delfitto 2005).
As for the difference between EP and educated BPse/si
, we need to consider which
sources of variation would be plausible. Approaches to long‐distance binding of se‐forms
based on abstract head movement will have to look for plausible constraints on se
movement in BPse/si
, and absence of these constraints in EP. We are not aware of any
­
proposal along this line. Menuzzi (1996, 1999) suggests another line of explanation,
based on constraint violability and a second constraint derivable from R&R’s
chain condition, namely chain visibility: the head of a chain must be fully specified for
φ‐features. (Recall that the first constraint is what we called chain economy; cf. discussion
of (4).)
Given constraint violability, chain visibility will have the following effects: (i) the more
specified a bound form is for φ‐features, the more it counts as the head of a chain; hence, the
less close it needs to be to a c‐commanding antecedent; (ii) inversely, the less a bound form
is specified for φ‐features, the less it counts as the head of a chain; hence, the closer it must
be to a c‐commanding antecedent. That is, se‐forms, which are unspecified for φ‐features,
must establish a relation with a close c‐commanding antecedent. Moreover, the approach
predicts a parameter of variation for se‐forms, P3: the distance of binding will vary according
to their φ‐feature specification—more specified forms can be bound at longer distances than
less specified forms.
Now, Tables 18.1 and 18.2 above indicate that se‐forms must be very much unspecified in
BPse/si
, but not in EP. In BPse/si
, the pronominal system contains many forms that are grammat-
ically 3rd person (though not semantically), and reflexive se is used with all semantic persons
except the 1st person singular; that is, the only opposition is se vs. me (Table 18.2). In EP, on
the other hand, the reflexive se is not used for 1st person, singular and plural, neither for 2nd
person singular, and the system opposes se to me, nos and te (Table 18.1). We conclude that
se‐forms have very little φ‐feature specification in BPse/si
, hence binding must be very local;
but they have more φ‐feature specification in EP, supporting binding at longer distances
(Menuzzi 1996, 1999).
4.  Bound variables in Portuguese
4.1.  Binding of null subjects vs. full pronouns
Montalbetti (1984) was the first to explore the different anaphoric options of referential and
quantificational antecedents in Romance. He identified in Spanish a restriction he called
Binding and Pronominal Forms in Portuguese  347
“Overt Pronoun Constraint” (OPC): where a null argument is available, pronouns cannot be
bound by quantificational antecedents like nadie:
(15)  a.  Juan cree que {pro/él} es inteligente. [Spanish]
b. Nadie cree que {pro/*él} es inteligente.
“Juan / Nobody believes that he is intelligent.”
Montalbetti’s example in (16) shows that the contrast disappears where the null argument is
unavailable (prepositions do not allow null arguments in Spanish):
(16)  Nadie quiere que María hable de {él/*pro}. [Spanish]
“Nobody wants Maria to talk about him.”
For Portuguese, Negrão and Muller (1996) claimed that similar contrasts between null and
overt pronominal subjects should be accounted for in terms of coreference vs. variable
binding. Their proposal appeared in the context of the debate concerning null subjects in BP;
it was conceived as an alternative to the 1990s prevailing view according to which BP was
changing into a non‐null subject grammar. Negrão and Muller argued that this would not
explain the actual distribution of BP null subjects; in particular, the fact that 3rd person null
subjects are quite frequent (see Section 2). In addition, they observed that, except for imper‑
sonal null subjects, most 3rd person null subjects are “anaphor‐like” in BP: they have an
antecedent, often within the same sentence—a property much explored in later literature
(see below).
Under Negrão and Muller’s view, BP was not losing null subjects; rather, null subjects and
overt pronouns in BP were becoming “specialized”: null subjects as “bound forms”, and
overt pronouns as forms for coreference relations. Though this is not equivalent to
Montalbetti’s OPC, it correctly predicts that BP will show contrasts similar to (15):
(17) a. João acredita que {pro/eleBP
/?eleEP
} é inteligente. (BP/EP)
b. Ninguém acredita que {pro/*ele} é inteligente.
“Nobody believes that he is intelligent.”
Basically the same facts are found in EP, though a full pronoun requires “emphasis” or “con‑
trast” to be used in (17a), as in all typical null subject languages; hence, it may be considered
a marked option with respect to null subjects (Brito 1991).
From the mid 1990s on, many studies explored the view that BP is, after all, a null subject
language, but one with a highly constrained type of null subject (Ferreira 2009, Modesto 2011
for surveys). Besides the strong tendency for having a linguistic antecedent, this literature
has collected a number of other “anaphor‐like” properties of BP null subjects: (a) their ante‑
cedent must be the closest subject (18); (b) it must c‐command the null subject (19); and
(c) the null subject is interpreted as a bound variable; hence, strict identity readings seem to
be unavailable (20):
(18)  João disse [que o Paulo acha [que {ele/*proBP
/??proEP
} é esperto]]. (BP/EP)
“João said [Paulo thinks [he is smart]].”
(19)  [A mãe do João] acha que {ele/*proBP
/??proEP
} é esperto. (BP/EP)
“[João’s mother] thinks he is smart”.
(20)  João acha que pro vai ganhar a corrida, e a Maria também. (BP/EP)
“João thinks he will win the race, and Maria too
(thinks she will win the race).”
#“João thinks he will win the race, and Maria too
(thinks he will win the race).”
348  Sergio Menuzzi and Maria Lobo
Recently, similar restrictions were observed in EP (Branco 2007), though the requirements
imposed on the BP null subject seem to be stronger, and the relevant interpretations available
in EP under appropriate discourse conditions (e.g. high topicality of the antecedent;
cf. Barbosa, Duarte, and Kato 2005).
Examples like (17)–(20) do suggest that BP null subjects must be bound forms—hence,
interpreted as bound variables, as claimed by Negrão and Muller. For EP we should say, per‑
haps, that they prefer a bound variable interpretation.
And what about the claim that overt pronouns are “specializing as referential expres‑
sions” in BP? Negrão and Muller take this to mean that overt pronouns cannot be interpreted
as bound variables in BP; they should only enter coreference relations; Muller (1997) illus‑
trates this with (21a); we add (21b, c) for comparison:
(21)  a.  Joana confia nela, e Jorge também. (BP/EP)
“Joana trusts herself, and Jorge too (trusts her).”
#“Joana trusts herself, and Jorge too (trusts himself).”
b. Joana confia em si, e Jorge também. (BP/EP)
#“Joana trusts herself, and Jorge too (trusts her).”
“Joana trusts herself, and Jorge too (trusts himself ).”
c. Ninguém mais confia {em si/*nele}. (BP/EP)
“Nobody trusts himself anymore.”
It does seem difficult to get the bound variable reading in (21a); (21b) shows that this reading
is best expressed by reflexive si, which, in turn, makes the strict identity reading difficult.
(21c) shows a contrast similar to (17): the pronoun is excluded with quantificational “nobody”
as an antecedent because there is a better alternative, namely si. In EP judgments are similar
(Estrela 2006). Thus, full pronouns do seem to be at least disfavored as bound forms—hence,
as bound variables—in both BP and EP.
Still, the claim that they cannot be interpreted at all as bound variables seems too strong.
First, recall Montalbetti’s observation: bound pronouns are constrained in Spanish only
where no null pronominal is available. In Portuguese, we find similar effects: e.g., in EP and
for some BP speakers, reflexive si may be long distance bound; still, such dependencies are
often not optimal, and the natural option is a full pronoun:
(22) Nenhum aluno quis saber se o professor tinha falado mal {dele/?de si}. (EP/BPse/si
)
“No pupil wanted to know whether the teacher had spoken ill {of se/of‐him}”
Second, we do find in the literature on BP examples with pronominal subjects bound by
quantificational antecedents; and with full pronouns claimed to be ambiguous between a
strict and a sloppy reading. The examples below are from Ferreira (2009):
(23)  Nenhum menino disse que Maria acha que {ele/*pro} é inteligente.7
no boy said that Mary thinks that {he/pro} is intelligent.“
No boy said that Mary thinks that he is intelligent.”
(24)  João acha que ele vai ganhar a corrida; Maria também.
“João thinks that he will win the race; Maria too (thinks he will win).”
“João thinks that he will win the race; Maria too (thinks she will win).”
In sum: there is some indication that null subjects must be bound forms in BP, and are favored
as such in EP. Inversely, full pronouns do seem disfavored as bound forms where a null sub‑
ject or a form like reflexive si is available. But the constraint on pronouns does not seem to be
Binding and Pronominal Forms in Portuguese  349
categorical, or “inherent” to them; rather, it depends on the presence of an alternative form—
as suggested by Montalbetti’s OPC.
4.2.  Binding of 3rd person possessives
In EP, both seu “his/her/their” and dele “of‐him” can be used with referential antecedents
(25a) (Castro 2001, Estrela 2006);8
but in spoken BP seu is not used at all with 3rd person ref‑
erential antecedents, and dele is the current possessive (25b):
(25) a.  João está procurando {seu irmão/?o irmão dele}. (EP)
b. João está procurando {??seu irmão/o irmão dele}. (BP)
“João is looking (for) {his brother/the brother of him}.”
Recall that semantic 2nd person você “you” is grammatically 3rd person, hence seu is used for
2nd person both in EP and BP. In BP, however, this is its main use—hence, by far the preferred
reading of seu in (25), which is not the case in EP. Because of this, early literature suggested
that seu in BP had been reanalyzed as corresponding strictly to você, and a new series, of dele
“of‐him”, had been developed for (semantic) 3rd person (Perini 1985). However, Menuzzi
(1996), Negrão and Muller (1996) and Muller (1997) noticed that quantitative studies told a
different story (e.g. Silva 1991). Most occurrences of seu in spoken language do refer to 2nd
person (você “you”). But there is also a significant number of 3rd person occurrences, up to
about 50 percent in some samples.
Moreover, the distribution of 3rd person seu is conditioned by semantics. Antecedents
favoring seu include those denoting institutions, inanimates, or having generic interpretation.
Particularly important is the divide between referential and quantificational antecedents: the
former strongly favor dele (25); quantified antecedents, on the contrary, favor seu—specially
in the case of “nobody” antecedents (26); a similar effect was found for EP (Castro 2001):
(26) Ninguém gosta de falar mal {de sua família/*da família dele}. (BP/EP)
“Nobody likes of to‐speak ill {of his family/of the family of‐him}.”
The contrast in (26) is similar to the OPC‐like effect we have seen in (17), where the null sub‑
ject is the best option, and in (21c), where the reflexive si is. In (26), it is the availability of the
possessive seu that triggers the constraint on dele.
The effect is not specific to BP; what is specific to BP is that seu is not used for referential
3rd person antecedents; rather, dele is. This fits Negrão and Muller’s suggestion that full pro‑
nouns are specialized as expressions for “coreference” in BP, as opposed to null subjects and
possessive seu, which would be specialized for the bound variable interpretation. But, again,
there are reasons to believe this is a too strong claim.
First, as we mentioned, quantitative studies have shown that other semantic properties of
antecedents are relevant for the choice of seu in BP.And, though some of the relevant ­properties
may be reducible to the idea that seu must be interpreted as a bound variable (e.g. genericity,
cf. Muller 1997), others cannot (e.g. the fact that institutions and inanimate referents favor seu).
Second, Negrão and Muller’s proposal entails that sentences like (27) below would only
have a strict reading; Muller (1997) claims this is correct, but there are BP speakers who
accept sloppy readings for pronouns (as she admits):
(27)  A:  Paulo vai arrumar o quarto dele no fim de semana?
“Will Paulo tidy his room this weekend?”
B: Não sei. O João vai.
“I don’t know. João will (tidy his room).”
350  Sergio Menuzzi and Maria Lobo
Finally, though quantificational antecedents such as ninguém “nobody”, todo mundo “every‑
body”, cada um “each one”, quem “who” are strongly disfavored as antecedents of the pro‑
noun dele, many speakers accept examples like (28), taken from the internet:9
(28)  a.  Não é qualquer menina que me chama para ir na casa dela.
“It is not any girl who calls me to go to her house.”
b. Pergunte a qualquer político qual é a relação do partido dele com
a realidade da cidade.
“Ask any politician what the relationship of his party is with the city’s reality.”
Like the examples in (22), (23) and note 5, (28) are also counterexamples to the idea that full
pronouns cannot be bound by quantificational antecedents. The antecedents in all these
­
sentences are similar in that they have a nominal projection, unlike “bare” quantifiers such
as “nobody”, “everybody”, “each one”. Menuzzi (1996, 1999) observed this, and suggested
an independent constraint was depressing acceptability of full pronouns in (17b), (21c) and
(26) (see section 4.4 below).
In sum: (a) EP possessive seu “his” is used for all types of antecedents; hence, it can be
either coreferential or bound; dele may also be used, but mostly for coreference. (b) In BP, dele
is used with referential antecedents, and seu specially with quantificational antecedents.
(c) For many speakers, dele may also be bound by quantificational antecedents containing a
nominal projection, though, like other occurrences of full pronouns, it is strongly constrained
with bare quantificational antecedents, like ninguém “nobody” and todo mundo “everybody.”
4.3.  Bound forms, c‐command and almost c‐command
Although by no means straightforward, we do discern some basic tendencies underlying the
EP and BP facts discussed so far: null subjects, reflexive si and possessive seu are alternatives
to full pronouns; they prefer or require to have bound readings, and are generally OK with
quantificational antecedents; full pronouns may also have bound readings, but sometimes
favor coreference and may be constrained with quantificational antecedents (specially, of the
“nobody” type).
Now, the forms that alternate with full pronouns share important properties (Menuzzi
2003a,b). First of all, they are morphosyntactically more “economical” than full pronouns,
that is, less specified for φ‐features. Second, they have “anaphor‐like” properties in BP, where
they cannot be interpreted deictically (cannot refer to a 3rd person referent), and require a
close c‐commanding antecedent. These are well‐known properties of the reflexive si, and are
also found with null subjects in BP. Moreover, they are true of possessive seu as well, except
perhaps for the “closeness” requirement (cf. Menuzzi 1996, Muller 1997, Menuzzi 2003b):
deictically, seu can only refer to semantic 2nd person (that is, to você “you”); and contrasts
like (29) show that seu must be c‐commanded by its antecedent in BP (Menuzzi 2003b):
(29)  a.  Quase todo rapaz se preocupa com sua namorada.
“Almost every boy worries with [about] his girlfriend.”
b. *[A mãe de quase todo rapaz] se preocupa com sua namorada.
“[Almost every boy’s mother] worries with [about] his girlfriend.”
In EP, similar effects are found with some quantificational antecedents but not others (e.g.
with “each boy” but not with “any boy”).
Following Negrão and Muller (1996) and Muller (1997), we might say null subjects,
reflexive si and possessive seu are “specialized” for bound variable interpretation, and full
pronouns are for (co)reference, trying to explain counterexamples away, e.g. by appealing to
dialect variation. But we think this approach faces two difficulties.
Binding and Pronominal Forms in Portuguese  351
First, the same forces seem to be acting in all varieties of Portuguese, even if not with
the same force. Second, the approach misses an important generalization: in all dialects we
find competition between the alternants for bound readings. In particular, if some condition
plays against forms that favor bound readings (e.g. distance against null subjects and si),
full pronouns become an option. Indeed, we have a final argument for this view. It comes
from the so‐called “almost c‐command cases”: when a quantificational antecedent does
not c‐command a form, but still can take it in its scope (see Safir 2014 and references cited
there). For many speakers of BP, what happens is that null subjects, reflexive se and
possessive seu are excluded—because of their “anaphor‐like properties”; and a full pro‑
noun must be used as a bound variable, as shown by the sloppy readings of the sentences
(from Menuzzi 2003b):
(30) a. [A mãe de qualquer garoto] diria que {ele/??pro} é um bom menino;
só a mãe do João que não.
“[Every boy’s mother] would say he is a good boy;
only João’s mother wouldn’t (say that he [=João] is).”
b. [A mãe de qualquer garoto] confiaria cegamente {nele/*em si};
só a mãe do João que não.
“[Every boy’s mother] would trust {him/*himself} blindly;
only João’s mother wouldn’t (trust him [=João] blindly).”
c. [A mãe de qualquer garoto] se preocuparia com {a namorada dele/
??sua namorada}; só a mãe do João que não.
“[Almost every boy’s mother] worries about his girlfriend;
only João’s mother wouldn’t (worry about his [=João’s] girlfriend.”
Again, EP is a bit different: strong effects are observed only with si.
In short: null subjects, reflexive si and possessive seu may even be favored over full pro‑
nouns as bound forms; but in BP they require a c‐commanding antecedent; if this require‑
ment is not met, full pronouns are the only available forms for bound variables.
4.4.  Sketch of analysis
The patterns of anaphoric choices for bound variables in Portuguese are pretty complex; we
can only discuss some of the main generalizations:
(i)	 null subjects, si and seu possess “anaphor‐like properties” in BP: they cannot have
deictic 3rd person interpretation, they need a close c‐commanding antecedent and must
be interpreted as bound variables;
(ii)	 the EP corresponding forms show similar properties, but in general in a less strict way
(e.g., null subjects and seu may have deictic 3rd person interpretation under appropriate
discourse conditions, and si can be long‐distance bound);
(iii)	 full pronouns (ele/dele) can enter coreference relations in BP, unlike null subjects, si and
seu; in EP, again, the opposition is less strict (null subjects and seu do support corefer‑
ence relations);
(iv)	 in BP full pronouns occur where null subjects, si and seu are also acceptable (except with
“nobody” antecedents); in EP null subjects are preferred over full pronouns; maybe si
and seu are, too, though this is less clear;
(v)	 there is some strong constraint on the use of full pronouns with “nobody” antecedents,
equally active in both BP and EP.
We will consider these facts from the perspective of the constraint violability approach
sketched in Section 3.3. The chain condition effects we called chain visibility and chain economy
352  Sergio Menuzzi and Maria Lobo
will be instrumental. Recall, in particular: φ‐feature unspecified forms violate chain visibility
more the farther they are from a c‐commanding antecedent; and full pronouns violate chain
economy more the closer they are to a c‐commanding antecedent. (For detailed discussion,
Menuzzi 1996, 1999.)10
First of all, we think BP null subjects, si and seu are “truly [‐R]” elements, in the sense that
they are very much unspecified for φ‐features. We have already pointed out BP se‐forms,
including si and seu, may be used with most semantic persons (see Table 18.2). The same can
be said of BP 3rd person null subjects—most tenses distinguish only two verb forms. Let
us assume that null subjects and se‐forms (se, si and seu) have become so impoverished in
φ‐­
feature specification as to be unable to support an independent chain; hence, to be licensed
they must enter an anaphoric A‐chain.
The properties in (i, iii) now follow. (a) Because of visibility BP φ‐feature impoverished
forms are unable to head an independent chain and cannot be deictically interpreted.
(b) Moreover, their antecedent must be close enough and must c‐command them. (c) In order
to be in an anaphoric chain, they must be coindexed with the antecedent, hence the bound
variable interpretation. Finally, (d) if they must be bound, they cannot receive an independent
index, hence cannot (co)refer; only full pronouns can. In this account, null subjects, si and
seu  are bound variables in BP, but pronouns are not required to enter only coreference
relations.
Consider (iv). Suppose BP φ‐feature impoverished forms are so much unspecified as to
be an optimal form only in the most local context, where A‐movement is possible, i.e.
transitive structures. In this context, se violates chain visibility the least because it is part
of an optimal A‐chain, and ele violates chain economy the most, by the same reason; hence,
se wins over bound pronouns in transitive structures in BP (or, rather, BPse/si
). However, no
such optimal chain is available for other φ‐impoverished forms: in the case of null sub‑
jects, binding crosses CP (17); in the case of si, it crosses PP (21c); and in the case of seu, DP
(26); and all these categories block A‐movement. Hence, no optimal chain is possible and
these forms incur in ­
visibility violations. By similar reasoning (the chain is not optimal),
chain economy has its effects weakened on pronouns. Except for transitive structures, we
take visibility effects on BP impoverished forms to be approximately as costly as economy
effects on full pronouns—hence, the possibility of having bound full pronouns where null
subjects, si and seu are possible in BP (except for “nobody” antecedents; see below).
Of course, the crucial distinction between EP and BP, as suggested in section 4.3, is in φ‐
feature specification: EP pronominal forms are more specified than BP’s because the number
of paradigm oppositions is higher in EP. Now, consider (iv) again: EP φ‐feature impoverished
forms are more economical than full pronouns; hence, because of chain economy, they are
preferred over pronouns when a c‐commanding antecedent is close enough for a near‐
optimal anaphoric chain; and they will be disfavored where this chain becomes less optimal
(deixis, no c‐command, long distance). With respect to (ii, iii), we assume they are suffi‑
ciently φ‐feature specified to be more tolerant to visibility violations than BP impoverished
forms; thus, they will be more tolerant to locality effects; under appropriate conditions, they
will even be able to head their own chains.
Finally, we need to explain (v), the particular effects antecedents like “nobody” trigger on
full pronouns. In part, they may have to do with the bound variable interpretation, as sug‑
gested by Montalbetti, and Negrão and Muller; in our approach, we do expect some effects,
since binding triggers economy effects on pronouns. But this does not explain the contrast
between “nobody” antecedents and quantificational antecedents with nominal projection.
Menuzzi (1996, 1999) attributes this contrast to agreement: “nobody” antecedents do not have
gender, favoring φ‐feature impoverished forms, which are not specified for gender; anteced‑
ents with nominal projections do have gender, being compatible with full pronouns, which
are also specified for gender.
Binding and Pronominal Forms in Portuguese  353
5.  Concluding remarks
In this chapter we have presented a few of the binding patterns found in BP and EP,
focusing on 3rd person dependencies. We tried to show how these patterns may con‑
tribute to BT, highlighting some of the concepts that seem crucial: predicate reflexivity,
chains, φ‐feature specification of anaphoric forms, competition between pronouns and
φ‑feature impoverished forms, gradual effects of locality. Many aspects of the phenomena
discussed were hardly touched on, and deserve further investigation. This is the case of
the BP variation concerning lexical operations and classes of verbs that allow or not se
deletion; and also the case of long‐distance bound si. Dialect variation related to binding
patterns should be studied more ­
systematically: it is an open area in EP, for which we find
little discussion in the literature; and for BP, it is still a source of uncertainty (e.g. concerning
preposition‐governed si and binding of full pronouns by different antecedent types).
Many other phenomena still need exploration in both EP and BP. These include: the pre‑
cise use and nature of the emphatic forms próprio “own” and mesmo “same”, which may be
relevant for the relation between binding and pragmatics (see n.4); null possessives, which
may tell more about economy (see n.9); and the properties of “φ‐feature mismatching
dependencies”, which are relevant to investigate the relation between φ‐features and
locality effects.11
Finally, we must also say that the Portuguese phenomena discussed
here seem to be relevant for new recent proposals and should be explored from these new
perspectives (see note 7).
Notes
1	 We assume the reader is familiar with “Government and Binding” model of grammar (see Carnie 2013);
in particular, with its component called “Binding Theory” (BT), and with the main facts motivating it (see
Safir 2013). Familiarity with Reinhart and Reuland (1993)’s version of BT is also advisable.
2	 SELF forms are lexical elements like ‐self in English, mesmo “same” or próprio “own” in Portuguese;
se forms are pronominal elements relatively unspecified for φ‐features, such as the reflexives zich in
Dutch and se/si in Portuguese.
3	 “EP” here corresponds to the close‐to‐standard spoken dialects of Lisbon and Central regions of
Portugal; in Brazil, to the urban dialect of educated speakers of the southeast region, including São
Paulo and Rio de Janeiro; this dialect, to some measure, is also used in other capitals in Brazil.
4	 A gente is also found in EP (Brito 1999); but it is socially marked, being common for speakers of
non‐standard varieties (Sória 2013).
5	 Portuguese SELF forms—mesmo “same” or próprio “own”—are not specialized for reflexivity mark‑
ing, being used to emphasize other anaphoric dependencies as well (Vieira 2014). Próprio may
behave as a long‐distance anaphor, but it is not necessarily subject‐oriented (Brito 1990, Branco and
Marrafa 1999).
6	 On “inherent reflexive and similar verbs”, see Reinhart and Siloni (2005), Alexiadou and Schäffer
(2014); on verb classes that favor se deletion in Portuguese, see Nunes (1990, 1995), Pereira (2007).
7	 Similar examples are also easily found on the internet:
(i)  Eu não chamo nenhuma pessoa de amigo, de amor ou de “fdp” sem que ela seja.
“I don’t call any person a friend, my love or “SOB” if she is not.”
https://instagram.com/p/x4IZAxvgiQ/
(ii) Todo político é corrupto até que ele prove o contrário.
“Every politician is corrupt until he proves he is not.”
http://politico10honesto.blogspot.com.br/2013/08/todo‐politico‐e‐corrupto‐ate‐que‐ele.html
354  Sergio Menuzzi and Maria Lobo
  8	Actually, in EP the best option in (25a) is a null possessive (i.e., “the brother”), cf. Lobo (2013). Indeed,
the construction has general use in EP, and would compete with seu and dele in many patterns pre‑
sented below. The construction is possible in BP, too, but for reasons of space we cannot discuss it here.
  9	 (14a) is from http://www.wattpad.com/121000862‐um‐conto‐quase‐de‐fadas‐capitulo‐2/page/2;
(14b), from https://carlostonet.wordpress.com/2012/06/04/licao‐de‐hoje‐como‐funcionam‐as‐
aliancas‐politicas/.
10	 Many of the facts discussed in Sections 4.1 to 4.3 seem to provide support for Safir’s (2004) recent
proposal for “one true anaphor”; indeed, φ‐impoverished forms might be morphological spell‐outs
of Safir’s “D‐bound” anaphor. For reasons of space, we cannot compare Safir’s approach to ours here.
11	 These dependencies include those combining grammatically 3rd person a gente “we” (lit. “the people”)
with 1st person forms like nos “us” and nosso “ours”, whose properties where explored in Menuzzi
(1999). In EP, we anticipate similarly interesting phenomena related to dependencies combining gram‑
matically 3rd person vocês “you, pl.” with the old 2nd person object form vos “you, pl.”.
References
Alexiadou, A. and F. Schäfer (2014). Towards a
non‐uniform analysis of naturally reflexive
verbs. In R. E. Santana‐LaBarge (ed.),
Proceedings of the 31st West Coast Conference on
Formal Linguistics, pp. 1–10.
Baauw, S. and D. Delfitto (2005). New views on
reflexivity: delay effects in romance. Probus, 17,
pp. 145–184.
Barbosa, P., M. E. L. Duarte, and M. A. Kato
(2005). Null subjects in European and Brazilian
Portuguese. Journal of Portuguese Linguistics, 4
(2), pp. 11–52.
Bertolino, K. G. (2013). Restrições sobre a
interpretação do proforma ele com antecedente
local em português brasileiro. Masters
dissertation, University of São Paulo.
Branco, A. (2007) Null subjects are reflexives, not
pronouns. In A. Branco (ed.), Anaphora:
Analysis, Algorithms and Applications. Berlin:
Springer‐Verlag, pp. 59–76.
Branco, A. and P. Marrafa (1999). Long‐distance
reflexives and the binding square of opposition.
In G. Webelhuth, J. P. Koenig, and A. Kathol
(eds.), Lexical and Constructional Aspects of
Linguistic Explanation. Standford, CA: CSLI.
Brito, A. M. (1990). Próprio as a local and long
distance anaphoric expression in Portuguese.
In Workshop sobre a Anáfora. Lisboa: Colibri,
pp. 116–138.
Brito, A. M. (1991). Ligação, co‐referência e o
princípio evitar pronome. In Encontro de
Homenagem a Óscar Lopes. Lisboa: Associação
Portuguesa de Linguística, pp. 101–121.
Brito, A. M. (1999). Português europeu/
português brasileiro: algumas diferenças
sintácticas. (Pré)Publications, 168, pp. 12–34.
Brito, A. M., I. Duarte, and G. Matos (2003).
Tipologia e distribuição das expressões
nominais. In M. H. M. Mateus, A. M. Brito,
I. Duarte, and I. Faria (eds.), Gramática da
Língua Portuguesa, 5th edn. Lisbon: Editorial
Caminho, pp. 795–867.
Burzio, L. (1991). The morphological basis of
anaphora. Journal of Linguistics, 27, pp. 81–105.
Carnie, A. (2013) Syntax: A Generative Introduction.
3rd edn. Oxford: Wiley‐Blackwell.Castro, A.
(2001). Os possessivos em português europeu
e português brasileiro: unidade e diversidade.
In Actas do XVI Encontro Nacional da Associação
Portuguesa de Linguística. Lisbon: Associação
Portuguesa de Linguística, pp. 599–613.
d’Albuquerque, A. C. R. C. (1984). A perda dos
clíticos num dialeto mineiro. Tempo Brasileiro,
78/79, pp. 97–121.
Estrela, A. (2006). A Teoria da Ligação: dados do
português europeu. Masters dissertation,
Universidade Nova de Lisboa.
Ferreira, M. (2009). Null subjects and finite
control in Brazilian Portuguese. In J. Nunes
(ed.), Minimalist Essays on Brazilian Portuguese
Syntax. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, pp. 17–49.
Galves, C. (1986). A interpretação “reflexiva” do
pronome no português brasileiro. DELTA, 2,
pp. 249–264.
Grolla, E. (2005). Pronouns as elsewhere
elements: implications for language
acquisition. Ph.D. dissertation, University
of Connecticut.
Grolla, E., and K. Bertolino (2012). O pronome
“ele” está sujeito ao princípio B? Uma
discussão sobre resultados experimentais.
Revista LinguíStica (UFRJ), 8, pp. 86–99.
Binding and Pronominal Forms in Portuguese  355
Hornstein, N. (2001). Move! A Minimalist Theory
of Construal. Oxford: Blackwell.
Koster, J. and E. Reuland (eds.) (1991). Long‐
Distance Anaphora. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Lara, V. (2015). Los tratamientos de 2pl en
Andalucía occidental y Portugal: estudio
geo‑ y sociolingüístico de un proceso de
gramaticalización. Ph.D. dissertation,
Universidad Autónoma de Madrid.
Lasnik, H. (1989). On the necessity of binding
conditions. In H. Lasnik, Essays on Anaphora.
Dordrecht: Kluwer, pp. 149–167.
Lobo, M. (2013). Dependências referenciais. In E.
Raposo, M. F. B. do Nascimento, M. A. Coelho
da Mota, L. Seguro, and A. Mendes (eds.),
Gramática do Português, Vol. 2.. Lisbon:
Gulbenkian, pp. 2177–2227.
Menuzzi, S. (1996). 3rd person possessives in
Brazilian Portuguese: on the syntax–discourse
relation. UCREL Technical Papers, 8, pp. 191–210.
Menuzzi, S. (1999). Binding Theory and Pronominal
Anaphora in Brazilian Portuguese. The Hague:
Holland Academic Graphics.
Menuzzi, S. (2003a). Sobre as opções anafóricas
para antecedentes genéricos e para variáveis
ligadas. Letras de Hoje, 38, pp. 125–144.
Menuzzi, S. (2003b). Escopo e variáveis ligadas
típicas do português brasileiro. Revista de
Letras, 61, pp. 213–248.
Modesto, M. (2011). Finite control: where
movement goes wrong in Brazilian Portuguese.
Journal of Portuguese Linguistics, 10, pp. 3–30.
Montalbetti, M. M. (1984). After binding: on the
interpretation of pronouns. Ph.D. dissertation,
MIT.
Moreira da Silva, S. (1983). Etudes sur la
symétrie et l’asymétrie sujet/objet dans le
Portugais du Brésil. Ph.D. dissertation,
Université Paris VIII.
Müller, A. L. (1997). A gramática das formas
possessivas no português do Brasil. Ph.D.
dissertation, Unicamp.
Napoli, D. J. (1979). Reflexivization across clause
boundaries in Italian. Journal of Linguistics, 15,
pp. 1–28.
Negrão, E. V. and A. L. Müller (1996). As
mudanças no sistema pronominal do
português brasileiro. DELTA, 12, pp. 125–152.
Neves, M. H. M. (2008). Os pronomes. In R. Ilari
and M. H. M. Neves (eds.), Gramática do
Português Culto Falado no Brasil, vol. III.
Campinas: Editora da Unicamp, pp. 507–622.
Nunes, J. M. (1990). O famigerado se: uma
análise sincrônica e diacrônica das construções
com se apassivador e indeterminador. Masters
dissertation, Unicamp.
Nunes, J. M. (1995). Ainda o famigerado se.
DELTA, 11, pp. 201–240.
Pereira, D. C. (2007). Variação e mudança no uso
dos pronomes reflexivos no português popular
da capital paulista. Ph.D. dissertation,
University of São Paulo.
Perini, M. (1985) O surgimento do sistema
possessivo do português coloquial: uma
abordagem funcional. DELTA, 1(1/2), pp.1–16.
Reinhart, T. (1983). Anaphora and Semantic
Interpretation. London: Croom Helm.
Reinhart, T. and E. Reuland (1993). Reflexivity.
Linguistic Inquiry, 24, pp. 657–720.
Reinhart, T. and T. Siloni (2005). The lexicon‐
syntax parameter: reflexivization and other
arity operations. Linguistic Inquiry, 36,
pp. 389–436.
Reuland, E. (1990). Reflexives and beyond: non‐
local anaphora in Italian revisited. In J.
Mascaró and M. Nespor (eds.), Grammar in
Progress. Dordrecht: Foris, pp. 351–361.
Reuland, E. (2011). Anaphora and Language
Design. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press.
Rodrigues, A. C. S. and D. C. Pereira (2006)
Pronomes reflexivos no português popular
brasileiro. In XIV Congresso Internacional da
ALFAL, Monterrey.
Safir, K. (2004). The Syntax of Anaphora. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Safir, K. (2013). Syntax, binding and patterns
of anaphora. In M. den Dikken (ed.), The
Cambridge Handbook of Generative Grammar.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
pp. 515–576.
Safir, K. (2014). One true anaphor. Linguistic
Inquiry, 45, pp. 91–124.
Silva, G. M. de O. (1991). Um caso de definitude.
Organon, 18, pp. 90–108.
Sória, M. (2013). “Nós”, “a gente” e o sujeito nulo
de primeira pessoa do plural. MA Dissertation.
Lisbon: Faculdade de Letras da Universidade
de Lisboa.
Vieira, R. C. (2014). A aquisição da proforma
“ele mesmo” no português brasileiro. Masters
dissertation. São Paulo: Departamento de
Linguística, USP.
Zribi‐Hertz, A. (1980). Coréférence et pronoms
réfléchis: notes sur le contraste lui /lui‐même en
francais. Lingvisticae Investigationes, 4, pp. 131–179.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
This article discusses properties of definite and indefinite DPs (Determiner Phrases) in
Portuguese related to their potential to refer to or quantify over entities belonging to a certain
universe of discourse. We will limit our attention to DPs introduced by the definite article
and a few indefinite determiners and followed by a noun phrase, leaving out other quanti-
fier determiners, as well as personal pronouns. Our focus will be on the interaction between
(in)definiteness and other semantic properties, emphasizing theoretically relevant facts and
puzzles. The article is organized in three sections: we discuss DPs introduced by the definite
article in Section 2, DPs headed by indefinite determiners in Section 3, and the so‐called bare
nominals (NP/DPs not preceded by any overt determiner) in Section 4.
2. Definites
Portuguese definite article o, like its English counterpart the, combines with noun phrases
(NPs) to form determiner phrases (DPs).1
From a pragmatic perspective, these definite DPs
relate to the retrieval of information previously introduced, explicitly or implicitly, in the
universe of discourse. Operating at the referential level, they convey a sense of familiarity.
They contrast with indefinite articles, which are used to introduce new discourse referents,
conveying a sense of novelty. (1), below, should be enough, to illustrate this general point:2
(1)  A Maria comprou um gato. O gato é muito bonito.
“Maria bought a cat. The cat is very cute.”
Semantically, a definite DP can be taken to denote a contextually salient individual (or group
of individuals) that belongs to the NP denotation. A singular definite DP, for instance,
­
conveys that that there is only one such individual, and denotes this unique individual.3
More explicitly:
(2) A singular DP of the form [o/a NP‐sg] denotes the unique contextually salient
individual that belongs to the denotation of NP‐sg, if there is one. If there is none, its
denotation is undefined.
The Semantics of DPs
Marcelo Barra Ferreira and Clara
Nunes Correia
19
The Semantics of DPs  357
Thus, the DP a presidente do Brasil em 2014 “The president of Brazil in 2014” has a denotation,
since there is a unique president of Brazil in 2014, namely Dilma Rousseff. On the other
hand, The DP a rainha do Brasil em 2014 “The queen of Brazil in 2014” has no denotation, since
there is no such individual. For NP denotations with larger cardinalities, we must rely on the
context dependency alluded to in (2):
(3)  Um brasileiro e um português se encontraram. O brasileiro estava feliz.
“A Brazilian and a Portuguese met. The Brazilian was happy.”
Plural definites are similar but also a little bit different, since they denote groups of two or
more individuals. If we assume that plural NPs have such groups in their denotations, we
can have the following:
(4) A plural DP of the form [os/as NP‐pl] denotes the largest contextually salient group of
individuals that belong to the denotation of NP‐pl, if there is such a group. If there is
none, its denotation is undefined.
Thus, both the DPs “as presidentes do Brasil em 2014” and “as rainhas do Brasil em 2014” do not
have denotations. On the other hand, a DP such as “os brasileiros” denotes the largest group
of Brazilians that is contextually salient.
Besides being used to refer to specific individuals (or groups of individuals), definite DPs
also have non‐specific uses, as when they occur under the scope of a quantified phrase:
(5) Toda mulher casada levou o (seu) marido pra festa.
“Every married woman brought the (her) husband to the party.”
In this example, the singular definite DP does not refer to any particular individual. Its deno-
tation can be paraphrased as “the husband of x,” with x being interpreted as a variable bound
by the subject quantifier phrase. Note, however, that the definite article is used because
uniqueness is still ensured: whatever the married woman x, (assuming legal western arrange-
ments) x has only a unique husband y, whoever y is.
With this minimal background in place, we discuss two facts about the use of the definite
article in Portuguese that raise some interesting theoretical points.
2.1.  Definite article with proper nouns
Most semantic theories treat proper nouns as referential expressions denoting individ-
uals. They differ from common nouns, which are assumed to denote predicates, and
need the support of a determiner in order to become a referential expression. According
to this perspective, combining a definite article with a proper noun, as in (6) below,
would be incoherent, since proper nouns per se identify a unique individual as its ref-
erent. However, both (6) and (7) are well formed, and their subjects seem to refer to the
same individual:4
(6) O Pedro é inteligente.
“The Pedro is intelligent.”
(7) Pedro é inteligente.
“Pedro is intelligent.”
If we stick to the traditional view that proper nouns denote individuals, we are left with no
option but to assume that the article in (6) is an expletive determiner, with no semantic
358  Marcelo Barra Ferreira and Clara Nunes Correia
content.5
An alternative is to take proper nouns to denote predicates. The noun “Pedro,” for
instance, would be interpreted as the predicate “being Pedro,” or more explicitly, “being iden-
tical to Pedro.” (6), then, would denote the unique individual that satisfy this predicate,
which, of course, is Pedro. Notice that under this view proper nouns will always denote a
singleton set, and therefore, always satisfy the definite determiner’s uniqueness require-
ment. As for (7), we need to postulate a null determiner with the same meaning of its overt
counterpart.
We remain neutral about which option—postulating an expletive or a null determiner—is
better. Either way, the semantic analysis will need to be supplemented with considerations
of a more pragmatic nature, since the choice of using or not the determiners usually corre-
lates with atitudes that the speaker has towards the referent of the proper noun. This in turn
is subject to considerable sociolinguistic variation. As an illustration, consider European
Portuguese, which normally uses the definite article in front of a proper noun. Even in this
variety, and especially in formal registers, when the referent of the name is, say, culturally
distinguished, the article is dropped:
 (8) Aristóteles foi um grande filósofo.
“Aristóteles was a great philosopher.”
However, if the name “Aristóteles” refers not to the great Greek philosopher, but to my cat,
the article should be used:
 (9) O Aristóteles voltou a fugir.
“The Aristóteles has run away again.”
Thus, even within a single dialect, the “rules” governing whether or not an article should/
can be used in front of a proper noun do not seem to be semantic in nature, and depend on
the cultural salience of the referent, as well on the degree of formality required by the context
of speech.6
2.2.  Kind‐referring definite DPs
Consider (10) below, which is fine in Brazilian and European Portuguese:
(10)  O urso polar está quase extinto. (BP, EP)
“The polar bear is almost extinct.”
(10) does not seem to be about any contextually salient bear. Moreover, “be extinct” is not
a predicate that applies to ordinary individuals, but rather to species or natural kinds.
A possible analysis for this sentence is to treat polar bear as a proper noun (the name of a
kind) and see (10)’s subject as just another instance of a definite article preceding a
proper noun, as we saw in (5). However, something will have to be said about the
grammatical status of examples such as (11), in which there is no article (we will discuss
this again in Section 3):
(11) Urso polar está quase extinto. (?BP, *EP)
“Polar bear is almost extinct.”
Although there are speakers of Brazilian Portuguese who accept examples like (11), there
are also many speakers who do not. Moreover, even among those who reject (11), there are
many who accept (7), in which an ordinary proper noun is used without a definite article.
Thus, although treating polar bear and related singular nouns/noun phrases as names of
The Semantics of DPs  359
kinds seems attractive in face of examples such as (10), additional stipulations would still be
needed to account for the limited acceptability of (11).
Consider now the case of plural definites:
(12)  Os ursos polares estão quase extintos. (BP, EP)
“The polar bears are almost extinct.”
This sentence is fine in both Brazilian and European Portuguese. Treating the plural noun
polar bear as the name of a kind raises some issues here too with respect to EP, since it cannot
stand alone without the article in this language (see Section 3):
(13)  Ursos polares estão quase extintos. (BP, *EP)
“Polar bears are almost extinct.”
Moreover, if polar bear is a proper noun referring to a species, it is not clear what the role of
plurality is in this case. One might assign (12) a taxonomic reading, according to which the
plural definite refers to the sub‐kinds of polar bears. However, although this is certainly a
possible reading for (12), it is not the only one, and (12) is fine even if it is assumed that there
is only one species of polar bear. Thus, it seems that the best analytic option for EP in this
case is to maintain the more conventional view that polar bears is just an ordinary plural NP
predicate and to assume the existence of an intensional definite determiner (homophonous
to its extensional counterpart) that turns properties of individuals (the NP intension) into the
corresponding kinds, viewed as intensional pluralities (the plural concept the polar bears).7
As for BP, both options—kinds as proper nouns and kinds as intensional plural DPs—
would be available. Needless to say, more empirical and theoretical research needs to be
done to see what (if any) differences in meaning and use there are between (10) and (13) and
how they can be accounted for under this double identity of kind denoting DPs.
3. Indefinites
This section discusses indefinite noun phrases introduced by um ‘a/one’ and algum ‘any’, as
well as their plural counterparts uns and alguns.8
At a very general and intuitive level, what
makes them a natural class from a semantic point of view is their existential flavor. By that
we mean that a sentence of the form [ [(alg)um/uns NP] VP] can be easily paraphrased as
saying that there is/are (an) individual(s) belonging to the class denoted by the NP that also
belong(s) to the class denoted by the VP. We take this intuition as our starting point, and treat
these indefinites as existential quantifiers over individuals. However, it is important to bear
in mind that the study of indefinite noun phrases has played a major role in the development
of natural language semantic theories focusing on discourse facts about reference, anaphora
and quantification, such as Kamp (1981), Heim (1982), and many others after them. These
theories have challenged the inherent quantificational force of indefinites, and have pro-
posed alternatives according to which they simply introduce restricted variables, which get
bound by other operators or interpretation procedures.9
In what follows we do not discuss this discourse‐related aspect of Portuguese indefinites,
but rather concentrate on their ‘sentential’ behavior, for which a quantificational view seems
well suited, and which we believe can be integrated one way or another into dynamic the-
ories. We focus on four semantic properties: epistemicity, positive polarity, partitivity, and
scope taking. We believe these properties provide a very good illustration of similarities and
differences between um, uns, algum and alguns, as well as the challenges their complex
behavior poses for any semantic theory of indefinites.
360  Marcelo Barra Ferreira and Clara Nunes Correia
3.1. Epistemicity
Consider the following two sentences:
(14)  O professor está conversando com um aluno.
“The professor is talking to a student.”
(15) O professor está conversando com algum aluno.
“The professor is talking to some student.”
The first point to notice is that both um and algum are interpreted existentially, and both
­
sentences above convey that there is (at least) one student to whom the professor is talking.
However, there is a clear difference between them. (15) suggests that the speaker is not in
direct contact with the student, and is not able to identify who he is. For instance, imagine
that I am in my office, and the conversation between the student and the professor is taking
place in the office right in front of me, where I can see them. Now, suppose the phone in my
office rings, I pick it up, and the person who called asks if the professor is available; then,
I can answer with (14), but not with (15). (15) would be fine, however, if I were locked in my
office and could not see what was happening in the other office, but still could guess the
­
professor is talking to a student, because I can hear his voice and I noticed that he is giving
academic advice to a person.10
Thus, algum, but not um, conveys an epistemic effect of
ignorance of the speaker about the identity of the referent to which the indefinite phrase is
connected. One important thing to notice is that this epistemic effect does not seem to be
cancelable, unlike what happens with um ‘a’:
(16) ??O professor está conversando com algum aluno, o Pedro.
“The professor is talking to some student, namely, Pedro.”
(17) O professor está conversando com um aluno, o Pedro.
“The professor is talking to a student, namely, Pedro.”
However, the epistemic effect seems to vanish when the indefinite appears under the scope
of certain operators, such as the determiner todo “every” or the adverb of quantification
sempre “always”:
(18) Todo professor reprovou algum aluno.
“Every professor rejected some student.”
(19) Todo professor que reprovou algum aluno se arrependeu.
“Every professor that rejected some student regretted it.”
(20) Sempre que o professor reprovou algum aluno, ele se arrependeu.
“Every time the professor rejected some student, he regretted it.”
The first sentence can be followed by a list with names pairing professors and students:
­professor X rejected student A, professor Y rejected student B, … The second sentence is
about professors that rejected students, and it does not suggest that the identity of any of the
students is unknown to the speaker or the professor. The third sentence generalizes over the
same type of situations, including the ones in which the identity of the student is known. In
these examples, replacing algum by um does not seem to result in any difference in meaning,
if the indefinites are interpreted as having narrow scope.
The Semantics of DPs  361
Interestingly, the epistemic effect discussed above with algum is not observed with the
plural form alguns. In fact, both (21) and (22) below could be used in the scenario described
above with the speaker in his office watching what was happening in the other office, but
with the professor talking to a group of students.
(21)  O professor está conversando com uns alunos.
“The professor is talking to some students.”
(22) O professor está conversando com alguns alunos.
“The professor is talking to some students.”
The situation is puzzling. The facts we presented before contrasting um and algum suggest a
decomposition of algum into two pieces, alg– and um, with the former carrying some semantic
ingredient that triggers the epistemic effect. However, this extra component of alg– seems to
be missing when the plural morpheme –s is added, and it is far from obvious what plurality
and the ignorance effect have to do with each other.11
A more precise characterization of the
epistemic effect as well as its interaction with plurality and other elements, such as the opera-
tors in (18)–(20), is beyond the scope of this paper, and at the moment we are not aware of any
unified proposal in this direction. We only want to point out here that epistemic determiners
are attested in other languages as well, including Spanish algun, Italian un qualque, German
ingendein, and English some, all conveying some sort of ignorance about who is the individual
satisfying the existential claim, but differing in which type of ignorance they convey.12
3.2.  Positive polarity
One salient feature of both algum and alguns is that they cannot be interpreted under the
scope of a clause‐mate negation:13
(23) O professor não aprovou algum aluno.   (* neg >> algum)
“The professor did not approve some student.”
(24) O professor não aprovou alguns alunos.    (* neg >> alguns)
“The professor did not approve some students.”
These sentences are never used to convey that the professor did not approve any student.
Such a situation would require the negative quantifier nenhum “no”:
(25) O professor não aprovou nenhum aluno.
The professor not approved no student
“The professor did not approve any student.”
What (23) and (24) express is the existence of students who the professor did not approve.
This becomes clear when the indefinites are resumed by a pronominal anaphora, in which case
the pronoun refers to the individual(s) whose existence was stated in the previous discourse.
(26) O professor não aprovou alguns alunos. Eles ficaram decepcionados.
“The professor did not approve some students. They were disappointed.”
That these facts are connected to negation, and not to some general tendency of out‐scoping
clause‐mate operators, can be seen in examples such as (27):
(27)  Todo professor aprovou algum/alguns alunos.
“Every professor approved some student(s).”
362  Marcelo Barra Ferreira and Clara Nunes Correia
In the most salient reading of this sentence the students co‐vary with the professors,
showing that the indefinite can be interpreted under the scope of the universal quanti-
fier todo.
The fact that algum and alguns cannot occur under the immediate scope of negation makes
them members of some class of positive polarity items. The question is what particular class
they belong to. Marti (2006) classifies the plural indefinites uns and alguns (as well as their
Spanish counterparts) as items that cannot be interpreted under the immediate scope of a
clause‐mate anti‐additive operator, such as the negation não, the preposition sem “without”
and the negative quantifier ninguém “nobody”:14
(28) O prefeito não convidou alg(uns) políticos para o seu aniversário. (*não>>(alg)uns)
“The mayor did not invite some politicians to his birthday party.”
(29) O prefeito celebrou seu aniversário sem (alg)uns políticos. (*sem>>(alg)uns)
“The mayor celebrated his birthday without some politicians.”
(30) Ninguém conversou com (alg)uns políticos durante a festa.      
(*ninguém>>(alg)uns)
“Nobody talked to some politicians during the party.”
We agree with Marti and believe that her claims can be extended to the singular indefinite
algum, always bearing in mind its epistemic component discussed above:
(31) O prefeito não convidou algum político para o seu aniversário. (*não>>algum)
“The mayor did not invite some politician to his birthday party.”
(32) O prefeito celebrou seu aniversário sem algum político. (*sem>>algum)
“The mayor celebrated his birthday without some politician.”
(33) Ninguém conversou com algum político durante a festa. (*ninguém>>algum)
“Nobody talked to some politician during the party.”
Judgments seem more complex with um. The counterparts of (28) and (29) sound fine with
the indefinite taking narrow scope, as long as we emphasize it:15
(34) O prefeito não convidou UM político para o seu aniversário. (OK não>>um)
“The mayor did not invite UM politician to his birthday party.”
(35) O prefeito celebrou seu aniversário sem UM político. (OK sem>>um)
“The mayor celebrated his birthday without UM politician.”
This type of emphasis is phonologically similar to the prosodic contour that is used when
emphatic words like único (“single”) or sequer (“whatsoever”) appear in the noun phrase that
accompanies the indefinite:
(36) O prefeito não convidou um único político para o seu aniversário. (OK não>>um)
“The mayor did not invite a single politician to his birthday party.”
(37)  O prefeito celebrou seu aniversário sem um político sequer. (OK sem>>um)
“The mayor celebrated his birthday with no politician whatsoever.”
It is important to bear in mind that neither the emphatic contour nor the co‐occurrence with
único or sequer are available to the determiners uns, algum or alguns.
The Semantics of DPs  363
Finally, we notice that the counterpart of (30) with um is fine under the relevant interpre-
tation even without emphasis:16
(38) Ninguém conversou com um político durante a festa. (OK ninguém>>um)
“Nobody talked to a politician during the party.”
We will not attempt to provide an explanation for the polarity/scopal behavior of um here,
but we believe it is worth pointing out that the word um is also the word for the numeral
“one.” We speculate that this interpretation might be the one targeted by the emphasis or by
words like único and sequer. It could also be responsible for the narrow scope detected in (38),
since cardinal noun phrases can easily scope under negative quantifiers:
(39) Ninguém levou dois parentes para a festa. (OK ninguém>>dois)
“Nobody took two relatives to the party.”
It might then be possible to generalize to singular um and algum Marti’s claim that the plural
indefinites uns and alguns are polarity items that do not occur under the immediate scope of
anti‐additive operators. One only needs to bear in mind that the form um is also a numeral
and can behave as such in certain circumstances.
3.3. Partitivity
We now discuss the behavior of um, uns, algum, and alguns in partitive constructions of the form
indefinite + de (“of”) + plural definite, which introduce quantification over a salient group of indi-
viduals (denoted by the plural definite). Consider, for instance, the following sentences:
(40) O professor reprovou algum dos alunos.
“The professor rejected ALGUM (some, sg.) of the students.”
(41) O professor reprovou alguns dos alunos.
“The professor rejected ALGUNS (some, pl.) of the students.”
(42) O professor reprovou um dos alunos.
“The professor rejected UM (one, sg.) of the students.”
(43) ??O professor reprovou uns dos alunos.
“The professor rejected UNS (one, pl.) of the students.”
While both singular algum and its plural counterpart alguns are fine in these constructions,
singular um contrasts with its plural counterpart uns, as shown in (42) and (43). Although
this might be an idiosyncratic feature of the form uns, a different (and one might say, concep-
tually more interesting) way to look at this paradigm is to attribute the acceptance of (42) to
the fact that um is also the word for expressing the numeral one, as we pointed out in the
previous subsection. This behavior of um in (42) would then be on a pair with the behavior
of other numerals, which are fine in partitive constructions:
(44) O professor reprovou cinco dos alunos.
“The professor rejected five of the students.”
Since numerals do not pluralize in Portuguese (*cincos, ‘five, pl.’), the form uns in (45) is
unambiguous—that is, it must be an indefinite quantifier, and not a numeral. This would
make it possible to state that the indefinite forms um/uns do not enter into overt partitive
364  Marcelo Barra Ferreira and Clara Nunes Correia
constructions. This could follow from a compositional treatment of these indefinites, if we
follow Marti (2006) and assume that alg– and um are separate morphemes, and the ability to
enter into a partitive construction is introduced by alg–. Moreover, it would make the con-
trast between alguns and uns seen above consistent with what happens in covert partitives,
when de+os (“of+the”) does not appear overtly:
(45)  O professor reprovou alguns alunos. Os outros, ele aprovou.
“The professor rejected some students. The others, he approved.”
(46)  O professor reprovou uns alunos. ?? Os outros, ele aprovou.
“The professor rejected UNS students. The others, he approved.”
For many speakers, there is a clear contrast here. The definite os outros is totally natural in (45),
but its use in (46), if acceptable at all, seems to require some sort of accommodation on the part
of the hearer. This would follow if uns is not compatible with partitive interpretations. Marti’s
idea is that uns is a plain existential quantifier, and that alg– acts as a modifier, leaving the
assertive meaning of uns intact, but introducing an implicature. For instance, the first sen-
tences in (45) and (46) both mean that there are students who were rejected by the professor.
However, due to the presence of alg–, (45) implicates that are also students who were not
rejected.17
In other words, only alguns, as part of its meaning, would make the complement set
of the students immediately salient and available for being picked by os outros.
3.4.  Scope taking
The last property we would like to consider is scope taking. Indefinites have been reported
to be insensitive to scope islands or at least to be more liberal than other quantified phrases
in how far from their surface position they can scope. This has been claimed to be the case
for English a/some and special scopal mechanisms have been proposed to account for this
fact.18
In this respect, both um and algum do not seem to obey island constraints that are known
to limit syntactic movement. Here we provide two cases, adapted from the literature:
(47) Se (alg)um parente do Pedro morrer, ele herdará uma fortuna.
“If some relative of Pedro dies, he inherits a fortune”
(48) Todos os livros que eu emprestei pra (alg)um aluno sumiram.
“All the books that I lent to some student disappeared.”
Judgments are delicate in these cases, but it seems that under appropriate discourse circum-
stances, the indefinites can take matrix scope in these examples. In (47), the indefinite is
inside an adverbial if‐clause. If it scopes inside this clause, the sentence will mean that the
death of any relative of Pedro’s will yield him inherit a fortune. This reading is certainly
­
possible and, in fact, seems to be the most salient one. The wide (matrix) scope reading in
this case would express a situation in which there is a particular relative of Pedro whose
death would make Pedro inherits a fortune. In this case, the death of any other relative of his
might be irrelevant. Although this reading may not be very salient, it seems to arise in dis-
courses like the following:19
(49) Eu tenho certeza que se (alg)um parente do Pedro morrer, ele herdará uma fortuna. Eu só não
me lembro qual parente é esse.
“I am sure that if a relative of Pedro dies, he inherits a fortune. I just cannot remember
which relative it is.”
The Semantics of DPs  365
In sentence (48) the indefinite is inside a relative clause. In this case, the narrow scope reading
would mean that no student who borrows a book from me returns it. Once again, this is cer-
tainly a possible reading for the sentence. However, the wide scope reading is also possible.
In this case, the sentence would mean that there is one particular student such that every
book that I lend to him never comes back to me. This reading becomes salient in contexts
such as the following:
(50) Todos os livros que eu emprestei pra um aluno sumiram. Só ele age assim! Todos os outros
alunos devolveram os livros que me pediram emprestados.
“All books I lent to some student disappeared. He is the only one that does that.
All other students returned the books that they had borrowed from me.”
Replacing um by uns, algum or alguns in the examples above does not seem to affect the
judgements, if similar contextual environments are established.
We conclude this section by noticing that scopal freedom contrasts with the previous
three properties that we presented before in applying (for some speakers at least) to all four
Portuguese indefinites we looked at. This can be taken as indicative that this freedom should
not be theoretically tied to any of those other properties. What exactly is behind this peculiar
trait of indefinites is still a debatable matter.20
4.  Bare nominals
Both European and Brazilian Portuguese (EP/BP) allow for bare nominals in argument posi-
tions. By bare nominals we mean noun phrases headed by common nouns not preceded by
overt functional material such as determiners and numerals, as in the following example:
(51)  Pedro viu estudantes na festa.
“Pedro saw students at the party.”
In (51) we have an instance of a bare plural in object position. As we will see below, bare
­
plurals are allowed in both varieties of Portuguese, but their distribution is constrained by
different factors, BP being more liberal than EP. Bare singulars, on the other hand, are not
allowed with count nouns in EP, but are fine in BP, as shown in (52):21
(52) Pedro viu estudante na festa. (*EP/✓ BP)
*“Pedro saw student at the party.”
We start our discussion with the use of bare plurals in both varieties, and then proceed to
bare singulars in BP.
4.1.  Bare plurals
In episodic sentences such as (52), bare plurals receive an existential interpretation. (52) is
true if there are students that Pedro saw at the party, and false otherwise. In this respect, bare
plurals can be paraphrased as DPs formed with uns or alguns:
(53) Pedro viu uns estudantes na festa.
“Pedro saw some students at the party.”
Despite the similarity in interpretation between (51) and (53), when scope‐taking expres-
sions are present in the same clause, the interpretation of bare plurals is different from that
366  Marcelo Barra Ferreira and Clara Nunes Correia
of overt indefinites. For instance, they always take scope below a clause‐mate negation,
whereas this is not the case with overt indefinites, as we saw in the last section:
(54)  Pedro não viu estudantes na festa. (OK não >> ∃; *∃ >> não)
“Pedro didn’t see students at the party.”
(55)  Pedro não viu (alg)uns estudantes na festa. (* não >> ∃; ok ∃ >> não)
“Pedro didn’t see some students at the party.”
(54) is true if, and only if, Pedro saw no students at the party. The indefinites in (55), on the
other hand, are positive polarity items and only allow for the inverse scope reading. The
same is true with respect to other clause‐mate negative elements:
(56) a.  Ninguém viu estudantes na festa.
“Nobody saw students at the party.”
b. Pedro consertou a máquina sem ferramentas.
“Pedro fixed the machine without tools.”
Bare plurals are also interpreted with narrow scope when embedded in the complement of
intensional verbs:
(57)  Pedro quer encontrar estudantes.
“Pedro wants to find students.”
In (57), Pedro’s desire is not directed towards some specific group of students. A continua-
tion such as Eles estão na casa da Maria, in which the pronoun refers to a group of five students
who are at Maria’s house, sounds weird.22
This would be perfectly fine if we had an overt
indefinite, as in (58):
(58) Pedro quer encontrar (alg)uns estudantes.
“Pedro wants to find some students.”
As for their syntactic distribution in episodic sentences, bare plurals cannot appear in
­
preverbal, subject positions in EP, but are fine in BP:23
(59) Cachorros morderam o Pedro. (*EP/✓BP)
“Dogs bit Pedro.”
In this regard, BP is like English, whereas EP resembles Spanish and Italian.24
The same
­
contrast is observed in non‐episodic sentences. This includes both generic statements and
kind predication:
(60) Cachorros (normalmente) não mordem os seus donos. (*EP/✓BP)
“Dogs (normally) don’t bite their owners.”
(61) Dinossauros estão extintos. (*EP/✓BP)
“Dinosaurs are extinct.”
(60) is a generic statement that assigns to every (normal) dog the property of not biting her
owner. Although this is a generic statement about dogs, genericity does not seem to be tied
to the presence of a bare plural, but rather to tense and aspect (simple present in Portuguese,
as in English, only gives rise to habitual readings with eventive predicates) or an adverb of
The Semantics of DPs  367
quantification. Replacing a bare plural by an overt (singular) indefinite would not change
the generic character of the interpretation:
(62)  Um cachorro (normalmente) não morde o seu dono.
“A dog (normally) doesn’t bite his owner”
In (61), we have a predicate that applies to kinds and not to ordinary individuals. The
­
interpretation is that members of the kind ceased to exit. In this context, replacing a bare
plural by an overt indefinite is not possible (except, maybe, under a taxonomic
interpretation):
(63) Um dinossauro está extinto. (*EP/*BP)
*“A dinosaur is extinct.”
Good paraphrases are obtained with an overt definite, as we saw in section 1:
(64) Os dinossauros estão extintos. (EP/BP)
“The dinosaurs are extinct.”
Accounting for the distribution of bare plurals has been a challenge for syntactic and semantic
theorists working on many languages.25
As we have just seen, even closely related dialects
can impose very different constrains on their distribution. To present and discuss such
­
theories is, of course, beyond the scope of this paper. We just want to point out that the
ungrammaticality of bare plurals with kind predicates in EP makes it implausible that they
denote kinds in this language. A more plausible alternative is to treat bare plurals as DPs
headed by a covert indefinite determiner. Its sensitivity to subject/object asymmetries might
then be related to the licensing of empty categories, which is known to be affected by lexical
government by verbs and related matters. This is the route taken by Chierchia (1998) for
Italian (see also Longobardi 2000). Of course, how the scopal behavior of bare plurals dis-
cussed above is to be accounted for by such a theory remains to be spelled out (the same is
true for the heaviness constraint mentioned in note 17).
Treating bare plurals as kind‐denoting expressions seems more promising for BP (as well
as for English), though taking them to denote predicates that can be type‐shifted to kinds or
existential quantifiers is also an option, as argued for by Pires de Oliveira and Rothstein (2011).
4.2.  Bare singulars
BP allows for bare singulars in argument positions. However, their distribution is not the
same as the one we have just seen for bare plurals. We start with an example in which a bare
singular occurs in the object position of a transitive verb in an episodic sentence.
(65) Pedro viu estudante na festa.
“Pedro saw student at the party.”
In this sentence, the bare singular receives an existential interpretation. In this respect, it
behaves like a bare plural, as we saw in (53) above. Bare singulars also behave like bare plu-
rals with respect to the scopal properties discussed in the previous section. For instance, they
can only take scope below a clause mate negation. (66), below, is true if, and only if, there is
no student that Pedro saw at the party.26
(66) Pedro não viu estudante na festa.
*“Pedro didn’t see student at the party
368  Marcelo Barra Ferreira and Clara Nunes Correia
There are differences, however. Whereas (52) conveys that at least two students were seen by
Pedro, (64) is neutral in this respect. The existence of a single student seen by Pedro is enough
to make the sentence true and felicitous. Moreover, the neutrality observed with bare
­
singulars concerns not only plurality, but also the count / mass distinction. This is illustrated
below with the count noun melancia.
(67)  O bebê comeu melancia/melancias.
“The baby ate watermelon/watermelons.”
The version with a bare singular can be true if the baby ate only some small pieces of a water-
melon, or even some kind of sauce made with the fruit. It can also be used in less plausible
cases in which a whole watermelon was eaten or in which more than one fruit was eaten by
a hungry child. Though grammatical, the version with a bare plural sounds a bit odd at first,
because it conveys that at least two watermelons were eaten by the baby.
As for their distribution, bare singulars seem not to be acceptable in the subject position
of episodic sentences:27
(68) *Cachorro mordeu o Pedro ontem.
*“Dog bit Pedro yesterday.”
They are fine, however, in the subject (as well as in the object) position of generic sentences.
In these cases, replacing the bare singular by a bare plural results in no obvious difference of
interpretation:28
(69) Cachorro, normalmente, não morde o próprio dono.
*“Dog, normally, doesn’t bite its owner.”
Bare singulars also seem to be fine, at least for some speakers, as subjects of kind predicates
in BP:29
(70) Dinossauro está extinto.
*Dinosaur is extinct
Notice that (70) is very close in form to sentences with a kind predicate and a bare mass noun
as subject:
(71) Petróleo está escasso.
Oil is rare
Notice further that bare mass nouns behave like bare singulars in being ungrammatical in
the preverbal subject position of episodic predicates, but perfectly fine in generic
statements:30
(72) *Vinho vazou no chão da adega. (cf. Vazou vinho no chão da adega.)
“Wine spilt on the cellar’s floor.”
(73) Vinho vaza quando não é posto em um barril bem vedado.
“Wine spills when it is not in a sealed barrel.”
Similarities like these have led Pires de Oliveira and Rothstein (2004) to propose that bare
singulars and bare mass nouns are semantically alike. This may sound odd at first due to the
fact that typical bare singulars such as cachorro (‘dog’) or estudante (‘student’) seem to refer to
naturally atomic properties, which apply to individuals or groups of individuals, whereas
The Semantics of DPs  369
typical mass nouns such as vinho (‘wine’) or óleo (‘oil’) do not refer to atomic properties and
do not apply to individuals. However, the authors point out that several mass nouns are also
naturally atomic: furniture, jewelry, silverware are some examples. Refuting previous argu-
ments by Schmitt and Munn (1999) against the parallel between bare singulars and bare
mass noun phrases based on distributive predication, they present examples such as (74)
below in which we see distribution down to atomic individuals with both types of bare noun
phrases:
(74)  a.  Criança pesa 20 kg nessa idade.
“Child weighs 20 kg at this age.”
b. Bijouteria custa 10 dólares nesta loja.
“Jewelry costs 10 dollars at this store.”
(75) a. Tinha brinquedo espalhado por todo quarto.
“There was toy scattered all over the room.”
b. Tinha bijouteria espalhada por todo o balcão.
“There was jewelry scattered all over the counter.”
Pires de Oliveira and Rothstein (2004) propose to capture these similarities by treating both
bare singulars and bare mass nouns as kind‐denoting expressions. An issue that deserves
further attention before one can fully evaluate this type of proposal is how kind‐denoting
arguments interact compositionally with their predicates in episodic sentences and why
(non‐contrasting) bare singulars are not acceptable in preverbal, subject positions of such
sentences.31
As the above presentation made clear, a comprehensive and detailed analysis of the
syntax, semantics, and pragmatics of are singulars in BP remains an open and challenging
topic.
Notes
1	Unlike the, the Portuguese definite article inflects for gender (masculine/feminine) and number
(singular/plural), giving rise to four different forms: o (m.s.), a (f.s.), os (m.pl.), as (f.pl.).
2	 See Heim (1983) for a semantic/pragmatic theory of (in)definiteness in which novelty/famil-
iarity plays an important role. See Lyons (1999) for a detailed discussion of the variety of
­
morphological, syntactic, semantic and pragmatic issues connected to the notional category of
definiteness.
3	 It should be noted that not every theory (most notably Bertrand Russell’s) treats definite descrip-
tions as referential expressions. For presentation and discussion of different proposals in this area,
see, for instance, Neale (1990), Heim (1991), Abbott (2010), Elbourne (2013). As far as we can see,
Portuguese data do not raise any new issues that would help pending for one or the other side in
this debate.
4	 There are other languages in which a definite article may be found with proper nouns (often subject
to dialectal variation), e.g. Modern Greek, Albanian, German, and Western Armenian (see Lyons
1999: 121ff).
5	 See, for instance, Longobardi (1994), who postulates a pleonastic determiner for Italian DPs in
which a proper noun is preceded by a definite article. He also proposes that article‐less proper
nouns in Italian occupy (via syntactic movement) the Determiner position that the definite article
otherwise occupies.
6	 This variability too is not exclusive to Portuguese. Lyons (1999:122), for instance, comments about
German that “it is common in colloquial usage to use the article with first names (die Claudia, der
Hans), and this usually conveys familiarity.”
370  Marcelo Barra Ferreira and Clara Nunes Correia
  7	 See Chierchia (1998) for the idea of kinds as intensional maximal pluralities. See Carlson (1977) for
a treatment of English bare plurals as kind‐denoting expressions. For excellent overviews of the
complex issues surrounding the semantic notion of genericity, including kinds and kind‐denoting
expression, see Krifka et al. (1995) and Beyssade et al. (2013).
  8	 These are the masculine forms. The feminine ones are: uma, alguma, umas, algumas. Since gender
does not play any relevant role in the constructions we discuss, we only employ the masculine
forms in our examples.
  9	 But see Heim (1990) for re‐evaluation of some of the data and analysis. We only mention here that
typical examples that have motivated a non‐existential, unselective binding approach are easy to
construct with all these indefinites:
(i)  Todo fazendeiro que tem (alg)um burrinho bate nele.
“Every farmer who owns a/some donkey beats it.”
(ii)  Todo fazendeiro que tem (alg)uns burrinhos bate neles.
“Every farmers who owns some donkeys beats them.”
10	 Even in this context, some speakers still consider (15) somewhat marked and would prefer to add
an overt epistemic modal verb such as deve (“must”), as in (i) below:
(i) O professor deve estar conversando com algum aluno.
“The professor must be talking to some student.”
11	 For a concrete proposal for Spanish algunos, see Alonso‐Ovalle and Menéndez‐Benito (2011).
12	 For more discussion on Portuguese algum, see Silva (2012), for Spanish algun/algunos, see Alonso‐
Ovalle and Menéndez‐Benito (2010, 2011). For a cross‐linguistic perspective, see Alonso‐Ovalle
and Menéndez‐Benito (2013) and the references therein.
13	 The singular form algum can also be used after the noun, forming a negative‐polarity item:
(i) O professor não aprovou aluno algum.
The professor not approved student some
“The professor did not approve any student (at all)”
We will not discuss this post‐nominal use of algum in this paper.
14	 Formally, an operator f is anti‐additive if f(x or y) is equivalent to [f(x) and f(y)]. (i) illustrates this
property for sem “without”:
(i) Pedro saiu sem Maria ou Sandra = Pedro saiu sem Maria e Pedro saiu sem Sandra.
Pedro left without Maria or Sandra = Pedro left without Maria and Pedro left without Sandra.
For discussion on positive and negative polarity items, see Szabolsci (2004) and the references
therein.
15	 In European Portuguese (at least for some speakers), adding prosodic emphasis is not enough to
get the desired interpretation. Emphatic expressions similar to “a single” or “whatsoever” need to
be used, as illustrated in (35) and (36).
16	 Although, for many speakers, the use of “nenhum político” (“no politician”), instead of “um político”
(“a politician”), would make the sentence sound more natural.
17	 Here is a sketch of Marti’s (2006) compositional implementation of this idea (ignoring number):
(i) [[ um ]] = λP. λQ. ∃x: P(x) & Q (x)
(ii) [[ alg‐ ]] = λR. λP. λQ. R(P)(Q)
     implicature: R(P)( ~Q)
(iii) [[ algum ]] = [[alg‐]]([[um]]) = λP. λQ. ∃x: P(x) & Q (x)
      
Implicature: ∃x: P(x) & ~Q (x)
The Semantics of DPs  371
18	 For relevant discussion, see Fodor and Sag (1982), Ruys (1992), Reinhart (1997), and Winter (1997),
among many others.
19	 For some speakers, this reading is easily available with um, but very hard to get with algum.
20	 However, as observed in note 16, some speakers reject the wide scope reading for algum. For such
speakers, one might pursue an analysis according to which algum turns its NP into an existential
quantifier inaccessible for any mechanism for wide‐scope readings. For instance, under the choice
function approach (Reinhart 1997, Winter 1997) algum might block the insertion of a choice function
variable that takes the NP as an argument.
21	 Judgments are not always crystal clear. A reviewer judged (51) a bit weird out of the blue, but fine
under focus:
(i)  Pedro só viu estudante na festa. (stress on “estudante”)
Pedro only saw student at the party
Other speakers, however, find (51) fine, even if the bare NP is unfocused.
22	 Matters become more complicated when bare plurals appear under intensional verbs whose sub-
jects are plural. This has been pointed out for English by Partee (1985), as well as for Portuguese by
Munn and Schmitt (2005).
(i) Os estudantes estão procurando artigos de linguística.
“The students are looking for linguistics articles”
In this example, it seems that the bare plural can take scope above the intensional verb. If it
scopes below the subject, then for each student there are (possibly) different articles that (s)
he is looking for. If it scopes above the subject, then there must be some particular set of arti-
cles that all the students are looking for. We wanted to point out that judgments are subtle
and the contrast between (i) and (56) was not obvious to some of the speakers we consulted.
23	 Bare plurals in subject positions become grammatical in EP if they are heavier, as in (i) below, taken
from Oliveira and Muller (2004):
(i) Amigos de Coimbra partiram ontem.
“Friends from Coimbra left yesterday”
The same is true in Italian, as reported in Chierchia (1998) and Longobardi (2000).
24	 The parallel between English and Brazilian Portuguese breaks up when bare plurals occur in the
object position of creation verbs, such as inventar (“invent”). In BP (and also in EP), they can only
have a taxonomic (“types of”) interpretation:
(i) Os americanos inventaram transistores. (only taxonomic reading )
The Americans invented transistors.
25	 See Carlson (1997), Krifka et al. (1995), Chierchia (1998), Krifka (2004) among others for thorough
discussion of English bare plurals.
26	 It is not obvious that bare plurals behave differently in situations in which there is only one student
that Pedro saw. Many speakers find (i) false in this case:
(i) Pedro não viu estudantes na festa.
Pedro did not see students in the party
Moreover, dialogues like (ii) sound coherent to these speakers:
(ii)  A:  Havia estudantes na festa?
Were there students at the party?
B: Sim. Mas apenas um.
Yes. But only one
372  Marcelo Barra Ferreira and Clara Nunes Correia
However, conflicting judgments have been reported in the literature (see Muller 2002, for
instance). This seems to indicate that there is variation in whether or not bare plurals are
inherently plural. For discussion of this issue with respect to English, see Spector (2003) and
Zweig (2009).
27	 Bare singulars are acceptable in contrasting, list‐like environments, as noticed by Schmitt and
Munn (1999):
(i) Durante a festa, mulher discutiu política, homem discutiu futebol, …
During the party, woman discussed politics, man discussed soccer, …
At first sight, bare singulars do not seem to receive an existential interpretation in these cases.
In (i), for instance, they seem to refer to the totality of women and the totality of men who
were at the party. But this is not necessarily the case, as a reviewer pointed out to us. The
reviewer offered the following scenario: someone throws a party in which plenty of lawyers
and doctors are present. Lawyers are supposed to be lazy, and doctors too serious to tell
jokes; but the party was so crazy that the cook was a lawyer, and the star of the night was a
doctor who turned out to be a comedian. With this scenario in mind, the reviewer adds, one
can certainly utter (i):
(ii)  A festa foi realmente louca: advogado cozinhou, médico contou piada, …
The party was really crazy: lawyer cooked, doctor told jokes, …
Understanding the role played by contrastiveness in the licensing of these subject bare singu-
lars is a topic that certainly deserves further attention. See Schmitt and Munn (1999) for other
cases in which bare singulars can receive this interpretation. See also Dobrovie‐Sorin (2010)
for discussion and comparison with certain uses of bare plurals in English discussed by
Condoravdi (1992, 1994).
28	 An overt indefinite “um cachorro” (“a dog”) would also be fine here (as it would in EP, which does
not allow (70)).
29	 Muller and Oliveira (2004), however, judge bare singulars unacceptable in kind predication.
30	 As a reviewer pointed out, like count bare singulars, bare mass nouns also become fine in episodic
sentences, if list‐like or contrastive situations of the type discussed in note 21.
31	 See Pires de Oliveira and Rothstein (2004) for some preliminary discussion.Also relevant is their obser-
vation that even in object position, bare singulars are sometimes constrained in episodic sentences:
(i) Maria comeu bolo.
Maria ate the cake
(ii) ??Maria costurou blusa.
Maria sewed the blouse
Although they do not develop an analysis, they suggest the contrast might be related to the
way perfective aspect affects non‐kind predicates applied to kind arguments. Definitely,
more types of NPs and VPs must be studied before any conclusion can be taken.
References
Abbott, B. (2006) Definite and indefinite. In K. Brown
(ed.), The Encyclopedia of Language and Linguistics,
2nd ed., vol. 3. Oxford: Elsevier, pp. 392–399.
Abbott, B. (2010). Reference. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Alonso‐Ovalle, L., and P. Menéndez‐Benito
(2010). Modal Indefinites. Natural Language
Semantics 18 (1), pp. 1–31.
Alonso‐Ovalle, L., and P. Menéndez‐Benito
(2011). Domain Restrictions, Modal
The Semantics of DPs  373
Implicatures, and Plurality: Spanish Algunos.
Journal of Semantics 28 (2), pp. 211–240.
Alonso‐Ovalle, L., and P. Menéndez‐Benito
(2013). Epistemic Indefinites: Are We Ignorant
about ignorance? In M. Aloni, M. Franke, and
F. Roelofsen. (eds.), Proceedings of the 19th
Amsterdam Colloquium.
Chierchia, G. (1998). Reference to kinds across
languages. Natural Language Semantics 6 (4),
pp. 339–405.
Dobrovie‐Sorin, C. (2010). Number Neutral
Amounts and Pluralities in Brazilian
Portuguese. Journal of Portuguese Linguistics
9(1), pp. 53–74.
Elbourne, P. (2013). Definite Descriptions. Oxford.
Oxford University Press.
Fodor, J., and I. Sag (1982). Referential and
Quantificational Indefinites. Linguistics and
Philosophy 5, pp. 355–400.
Heim, I. (1982). The Semantics of Definite and
Indefinite Noun Phrases, Ph.D. dissertation,
University of Massachusetts at Amherst.
Heim, I. (1983). File change semantics and
the familiarity theory of definiteness. In
R. Bauerle, C. Schwarze, and A. v. Stechow (eds),
Meaning, Use and the Interpretation of Language.
Berlin: Walter de Gruyter, pp.164–89.
Heim, I. (1990). E‐type pronouns and donkey
anaphora. Linguistics and Philosophy 13 (2),
pp. 137–77.
Heim, I. (1991). Artikel und Definitheit. In A. v.
Stechow, and D. Wunderlich (eds.), Handbuch
der Semantik. Berlin: de Gruyter, pp. 487–535
[English Translation]
Kamp, H. (1981). A Theory of Truth and Semantic
Representation. In J. Groenendijk, and
M. Stokhof (eds.) Formal Methods in the Study of
Language. Amsterdam: University of
Amsterdam pp. 277–322.
Krifka, M. (2004). Bare NPs: kind‐referring,
indefinites, both, or neither? In R.B.Y. Seattle,
and Y. Zhou, (eds.), Proceedings of Semantics and
Linguistic Theory (SALT) XIII, University of
Washington. Cornell: CLC Publications, pp. 1–24.
Krifka, M., F.J., Pelletier, G.N. Carlson, A. ter
Meulen, G.Chierchia, and G. Link (1995).
Genericity: an introduction. In G.N. Carlson,
and F. Pelletier (eds.), The Generic Book. Chicago:
The University of Chicago Press, pp. 1–124.
Longobardi, G. (2001) How Comparative is
Semantics? A Unified Parametric Theory of
Bare Nouns and Proper Names. Natural
Language Semantics 9, pp. 335–369.
Marti, L. (2008) The Semantics of Plural
Indefinites in Spanish and Portuguese. Natural
Language Semantics, 16, 1, pp. 1–37.
Muller, A., (2002). The semantics of generic
quantification in Brazilian Portuguese.
PROBUS 2 (14), pp. 279–298.
Muller, A., and F. Oliveira (2004) Bare Nominals
and Number in Brazilian and European
Portuguese. Journal of Portuguese Linguistics,
v. 3, n. 1, pp. 9–36.
Munn, A., and C. Schmitt (2005). Number and
indefinites. Lingua 115, pp. 821–855.
Partee, B., 1985. Situations, worlds, and contexts.
Linguistics and Philosophy 8, pp. 53–58.
Pires de Oliveira, R., and S. Rothstein (2011). Bare
singular noun phrases are mass in Brazilian
Portuguese. Lingua 121, pp. 2153–2175.
Reinhart, T. (1997). Quantifier Scope: How Labor
is Divided between QR and Choice Functions.
Linguistics and Philosophy 20: 335–397.
Ruys, E. (1992). The scope of indefinites. PhD
dissertation., Utrecht: OTS dissertation series.
Schmitt, C., and A. Munn (1999). Against the
nominal mapping parameter: bare nouns in
Brazilian Portuguese. In: Proceedings of NELS
29, pp. 339–353.
Silva, L. L. (2012). A manifestação das noções de
ignorância e de conhecimento no português
brasileiro: o caso de algum e (um) certo. PhD
Dissertation, São Paulo: Universidade de
São Paulo.
Spector, B. (2003). Plural indefinite DPs as
PLURAL‐polarity items. In J. Quer, J. Schroten,
M. Scorretti, P. Sleeman, and E. Verheugd
(eds.), Romance languages and linguistic theory
2001: Selected papers from ‘Going Romance’.
Amsterdam and Philadelphia: J. Benjamins.
Szabolcsi, A. (2004) ‘Positive polarity. Natural
Language and Linguistic Theory 22, pp. 409–452.
Winter, Y. (1997). Choice Functions and the
Scopal Semantics of Indefinites. Linguistics and
Philosophy 20, pp. 399–467.
Zweig, E. (2009). Number Neutral Bare Plurals
and the Multiplicity Implicature. Linguistics
and Philosophy 32 (4), pp. 353–407.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
The first issue to be addressed when dealing with verb classes is to know what are the
­
criteria to establish a verb class. That is, what properties do certain verbs share so that they
are classified as a coherent linguistic class and not as a simple grouping of verbs based on
incidental similarities of meaning? To answer this question, we follow Fillmore (1970),
Levin (1993), Levin and Rappaport Hovav (2005), Grimshaw (2005), Pesetsky (1995),
among others, and assume the hypothesis that similarities of meaning components, by
themselves, are not enough to classify verbs in a generalized and systematic way. For in-
stance, Pesetsky (1995) shows that there is no kind of syntactic generalization contrasting
verbs that denote emission of loud speech (holler, shout) with verbs that denote emission of
quiet speech (whisper, murmur). Conversely, the distinction between English verbs that
denote a manner of speaking (holler, whisper) and verbs that denote a content of speaking
(say, propose) seems to be relevant for their selection properties, since only the latter accept
sentential complements: Mary said that she is hungry is well‐formed, but *Mary whispered
that she is hungry is not.
Therefore, in the view adopted here, classifying verbs implies grouping them in clusters
that share an array of semantic properties that have impact in their syntactic behavior, such
as possible argument realizations, passivization, reflexivization, etc. (See Fillmore 1970,
Pinker 1989, Dowty 1991, Levin 1993, Levin and Rappaport Hovav 1995, 2005, Van Valin
2005, Wunderlich 2012, among others.) Thus, the semantic information carried by a verb is
not just a list of idiosyncratic meanings, but contains types of meanings that are grammati-
cally relevant. These meanings are encoded in the semantic structure of verbs and can be
represented in many different ways.
Levin (2010) points out another important aspect of semantic verb classification: verb
classes can be of different sizes depending on the kind and the level of generality of the
linguistic phenomena to be accounted for. Verb classes may have different “levels of granu-
larity”: they can be “coarse‐grained,” “medium‐grained,” or “fine‐grained.”
The coarse‐grained classification can be illustrated by the well‐known distinction
­
between internally and externally caused verbs, as proposed by Levin and Rappaport
Hovav (1995). The authors claim that verbs denoting an internally caused eventuality
show that some property inherent to the their argument is “responsible” for bringing
about the eventuality, and verbs denoting an externally caused eventuality inherently
Lexical Semantics: Verb Classes
and Alternations1
Márcia Cançado and Anabela
Gonçalves
20
Lexical Semantics: Verb Classes and Alternations  375
imply the existence of an external cause with immediate control over bringing about the
eventuality denoted by them:
(1)  A  menina dançou uma valsa. (internally caused verb)
the girl danced a   waltz
“The girl danced a waltz.”
(2)  O  furacão  
quebrou as  janelas. (externally caused verb)
the hurricane broke the windows
“The hurricane broke the windows.”
This distinction is grammatically relevant because it determines the syntactic realization and
the properties of the verb’s arguments. For instance, internally caused verbs only select for
cognate or hyponymous objects, as in (1), a restriction that does not apply to externally
caused verbs, as in (2), and object alternations are favored in the context of externally caused
verbs (e.g., the causative–inchoative alternation and the agent–beneficiary alternation that
we will discuss below).
The medium‐grained classification can be illustrated by the distinction between change‐
of‐state verbs and locatum verbs (or change‐of‐possession verbs, as proposed by Cançado
et al. 2013, since the entity denoted by the object becomes provided with something as a
result of the action described by the verb):
(3)  O  sol  derreteu o  
gelo. (change‐of‐state verb)
the sun melted the  ice
“The sun melted the  ice.”
(4)  A  cozinheira temperou a   comida. (change‐of‐possession verb)
the cook spiced  the food
“The cook spiced the food.”
The distinction between change‐of‐state and change‐of‐possession verbs is grammatically
relevant because it determines, for example, the causative–inchoative verb alternation. Only
the first group of verbs allows the alternation, in Brazilian Portuguese (BP) and European
Portuguese (EP):
(5)  O  gelo  (se)  derreteu. (BP)  
/ O  gelo derreteu(‐se). (EP)
the ice (SE) melted (BP) / the ice melted(‐SE) (EP)
“The ice melted.”
(6)  *A  
comida (se)  temperou. (BP) /  *A  comida temperou(‐se). (EP)
the food (SE) spiced (BP)  / the food  spiced(‐SE) (EP)
Note that this distinction does not divide these verbs into two very broad classes, since they
all belong to the class verbs of change, which in turn is a subset of externally caused verbs.
The fine‐grained classification can be illustrated by psychological verbs of the preocupar
“worry” type (object experiencer verbs):
(7)  A  filha   preocupa a mãe.
the daughter worries the mother
“The daughter worries her mother.”
In a medium‐grained analysis, this verb belongs to the change‐of‐state class. However, its
lexical meaning further specifies a particular psychological state for the internal argument,
376  Márcia Cançado and Anabela Gonçalves
an information that belongs to the verb’s root. As we will see in the next section, the root is
the element in the verb’s meaning that is not shared with other verbs. Hence, it carries very
specific information. Still, the distinction between psychological verbs and other change‐of‐state
verbs is grammatically relevant because it predicts that the former can take sentential
­
subjects, while other change‐of‐state verbs cannot (Cançado and Franchi 1999):
 (8) Que o  Pedro ainda não tenha chegado  preocupa a   Maria.
that the Pedro yet  not has  arrived worries the Maria
“It worries Maria that Pedro hasn’t come yet.”
 (9) *Que o   menino tenha pulado  muito partiu a mesa.
that the boy has  jumped a‐lot broke the table
In sum, semantic verb classes of different grain‐sizes may be relevant to grammar, even if
in different ways. The choice of one or another level of “granularity” in classification will
depend on the topic of research. In any case, we expect that these differences in verb class
grain‐size ultimately find their source in the lexical semantic representation of the verbal
meanings.Theissuenowistoproposeanadequatewayofrepresentingthislexicalinformation.
2.  Lexical semantic representations
There are many possible approaches to lexical semantic representations. One of the most
commonly assumed is the Semantic Role List approach. Semantic or thematic relations (as
usually known) are given in a list of labels that represent grammatically relevant aspects of
the verb meaning. These labels identify the role played by each of the verb’s arguments in
the event it denotes:
(10)  limpar “clean”: {Agent, Patient}
(11) dar “give”: {Agent, Theme, Goal}
Under this approach, sets of roles such as (10) and (11) are the grammatically relevant
semantic structures of the verbs; hence, verbs that show the same syntactic behavior, for
example projecting arguments in a similar syntactic structure, should have the same semantic
structure—the same list of thematic roles. In this way, thematic roles can be used to specify a
verb class.
Although still used by many researchers, thematic roles have been very much criticized in
the literature. First, their definitions are too vague and often difficult to apply reliably.
Moreover, there is a lot of divergence among authors as to which thematic role types should
compose the list. Another criticism is that, with some verbs, it seems necessary to assign
more than one thematic role to a single argument. (E.g., does run assigns an agent or a theme
role to the argument in subject position?) Finally, thematic roles do not seem to be the proper
tool to deal with levels of granularity in verb classification. On the one hand, coarse‐grained
classes require very general, and few, roles; on the other hand, fine‐grained classes require
specific roles, and many in number; but, by assumption, arguments have only one such role.
So, which role to choose? Apparently, a unique list of roles is not suitable.
The difficulties in identifying a list of thematic roles and in assigning these roles to certain
DPs have made many researchers reject the assumption that thematic roles can be character-
ized by a cluster of necessary and sufficient conditions. Proposals to overcome these diffi-
culties have appeared in many theoretical frameworks (Jackendoff 1990, Dowty 1991, Levin
Lexical Semantics: Verb Classes and Alternations  377
and Rappaport Hovav 1995, 2005, Van Valin, 2005, Wunderlich 2012, among others). Here,
we present the one we use in our analysis of Portuguese verb classes: predicate decompo-
sition. This approach consists of a more structured lexical representation: it not only contains
elements that allow for structural distinctions between verb classes of different grain‐sizes,
but also has other theoretical advantages over the thematic role list approach. Nevertheless,
we will keep using thematic role labels in our discussion as a descriptive tool, since they are
the most common way of describing semantic relations.
Some semanticists have kept the idea, originated in Generative Semantics, that a verb can
be represented in terms of one or more “primitive predicates,” chosen to represent meaning
components that are recurrent in a grammatically relevant group of verbs; this approach is
called “predicate decomposition” (Pinker 1989, Jackendoff 1990, Levin and Rappaport
Hovav 1995, 2005, Grimshaw 2005, Van Valin 2005, Wunderlich 2012, among others). Let us
illustrate this type of meaning representation with an example from Portuguese:
(12)  derreter “melt”:
[ [X ACT]  CAUSE [BECOME [Y <DERRETIDO “MELTED”>] ] ]
The structures are always composed of meta‐predicates, such as ACT and BECOME, and
their arguments, which may be variables, such as X and Y, or semantic constituents, such as
[Y <DERRETIDO>]. Besides, in the structure (12), there are two sub‐events, related to each
other by means of the meta‐predicate CAUSE, which takes sub‐events as arguments.
There is broad consensus in decompositional approaches that the distinction between
“root” and “predicate structure” is necessary. Predicate structure is everything but the root in
decomposition; it represents the part of the verbal meaning shared by members of the same
class. The root is the unitary, idiosyncratic part of verbal meaning, which belongs to a single
specific verb, and is represented between angled brackets (e.g., “<DERRETIDO>” in (12)).
According to Levin and Rappaport Hovav (2005), roots, even though idiosyncratic, may be
classified according to ontological categories. Among the ontological categories most fre-
quently used in the literature are STATE, THING, PLACE, and MANNER. In the decom-
position predicate structure, these categories can be meta‐predicates, arguments or modifiers.
For instance, while STATE, in (13), is a monadic meta‐predicate, THING and PLACE are argu-
ments of the dyadic meta‐predicates WITH and IN, in (14) and (15), and MANNER is a meta‐
predicatemodifier,in(16).Thetoolsprovidedbypredicatedecompositionallowusto represent
a verb class by a type of schema (Levin and Rappaport Hovav 2005, Cançado et al. 2013):
(13) Change of state (e.g., quebrar “break,” derreter “melt,” secar “dry,” etc.)
[ [X ACT]  CAUSE [BECOME [Y <STATE>] ] ]
(14) Change of possession (e.g., temperar “spice,” emoldurar “frame,” mobilar “furnish,” etc.)
[ [X ACT] CAUSE [BECOME [Y WITH <THING>] ] ]
(15) Change of place (e.g., engarrafar “bottle,” empacotar “package,” enjaular “jail,” etc.)
[ [X ACT] CAUSE [BECOME [Y IN <PLACE>] ] ]
(16) Manner verbs (e.g., dançar “dance,” pular “jump,” cantar “sing,” etc.)
[X ACT <MANNER>
]
It is worth noting that although the structure in (16) represents a single event, with a
single semantic argument, X, Levin and Rappaport Hovav (2005) and Grimshaw (2005)
argue that this type of “intransitive semantic representation” can also account for the transi-
tive use of the verb, as in the girl danced a waltz. The authors claim that, in such cases, the
378  Márcia Cançado and Anabela Gonçalves
object would actually be an argument of the root MANNER, not an argument of the verb,
since it need not be expressed, as in the girl danced all night. That is why the object argument
does not appear in the verb argument structure represented in (16).
Besides, using these structures to represent verb classes allows us to predict syntactic
properties by means of the predicate decomposition. For example, change‐of‐state verbs pre-
sent the causative–inchoative alternation (John broke the window. / The window broke), and the
other verb classes do not.
Predicate decomposition structure also provides the means to represent verb classes of
different grain‐sizes. For instance, the schemas presenting the meta‐predicate CAUSE, in
(13), (14), and (15), correspond to externally caused verbs and the schema in (16) corresponds
to internally caused verbs. Concerning medium‐grained classes, one can represent their dif-
ferences by resorting to slightly different predicate structures; see, for example, the distinc-
tion between change of state in (13), change of possession in (14), and change of place in (15).
In a fine‐grained analysis, since the idiosyncratic meaning of the verb is relevant, predicate
decomposition structures may represent it by means of the root as a particular semantic
constituent, as in the case of a psychological verb in (17):
(17)  preocupar “worry”:
[ [X ACT] CAUSE [BECOME [Y <PREOCUPADO “worried”>] ] ]
Finally, predicate decomposition is also an articulated representation of events. This
allows one to derive information about lexical aspect. For example, manner verbs denote
activities and causative verbs denote accomplishments, a distinction that can be derived
from representations like (13) to (16), but not from thematic structure representations. Even
thematic information itself can be derived from predicate decomposition structures; for in-
stance, the structure [X ACT] encodes the thematic role of agent (Cançado et al. 2013, for BP,
and Jackendoff 1990, for English).
In the next section, we analyze verb classes and alternations in BP and EP in the frame-
work of predicate decomposition.
3.  Verb classes and alternations
In this work, we assume that verb alternation encompasses syntactic and semantic alternate
ways of organizing the arguments of a predicate (Levin 1993); moreover, we also assume that
each type of alternation encompasses a specific verb class, since we have proposed a strict
relation between a verb class and its semantic and syntactic properties. For instance, (18) and
(19) illustrate two verb alternations much discussed in the literature:
(18) a. O  sol  derreteu o  gelo.
the sun melted the ice
“The sun melted the ice.”
b.  O gelo (se) derreteu. (BP) / O gelo derreteu‐(se). (EP) 
the ice (SE) melted / the ice melted (SE)
“The ice melted.”
(19) a. As ideias do  adolescente amadureceram.
the ideas of‐the teenager  ripened
“The teenager’s ideas ripened.”
b. O tempo amadureceu as  ideias do  adolescente.
the time ripened   the ideas of‐the teenager
“Time ripened the teenager’s ideas.”
Lexical Semantics: Verb Classes and Alternations  379
Usually, in the literature, these alternations are not distinct, and they are known as “caus-
ative alternation,” “anticausative alternation” or “causative–inchoative alternation.”
However, there are differences between (18) and (19), suggesting that two different (although
related) types of alternations are involved.
In (18), a causative–transitive sentence alternates with an inchoative–intransitive sen-
tence. The presence of the clitic se is optional in (18b), both in EP and BP (the only difference
being the position of the clitic). In (19), an intransitive–inchoative sentence alternates with a
causative–transitive sentence. In this case, the insertion of the clitic se in (19a) is not possible,
although the intransitive verb accepts the insertion of a causative argument, as in (19b), in
both Portuguese varieties.
According to Haspelmath (1993), in his typological work about inchoative / causative
verb alternations, these two types of inchoative / causative verb pairs illustrate the anticaus-
ative alternation in (18), and the causative alternation in (19). In the anticausative alternation,
the causative variant is basic and the inchoative one is derived. In general, the derived form
is marked, what is corroborated by the presence of the clitic se in the Portuguese inchoative
variant. In the causative alternation, the basic variant is the inchoative and the causative one
is derived. In this Portuguese alternation type, neither of the forms is marked, which is also
possible, according to the author. Thus, we assume the existence of “basically causative
verbs” (18), and “basically inchoative verbs” (19). We can present evidence from BP and EP
that the two verb types behave differently, taking into account the presence or the absence of
the clitic se in the intransitive sentences and the alternations of EP to be presented below.
This kind of alternation is productive in several languages, besides Portuguese, and is
much discussed in the literature, so we will not pursue this matter further. Instead, we will
introduce in the next sections other types of alternations, which seem to have distinctive
properties in Portuguese, and hence are interesting from a comparative perspective.
3.1.  Two types of alternations in BP
In BP, there are two very productive argument alternations which, though functionally sim-
ilar to alternations found in other languages (including EP), differ significantly from these in
the grammatical tools they resort to. The first alternation involves verbs like cortar “cut,”
lavar “wash,” extrair “extract,” operar “operate.” These verbs have an agent and a patient in
their argument structure, and since the agent is usually the most prominent thematic role, it
is aligned with the subject position:
(20)  O  cabeleireiro cortou o  cabelo do  João.
the hairdresser cut the hair  of‐the João
“The hairdresser cut João’s hair.”
Nevertheless, in many languages it is possible to give prominence to the possessor / beneficiary
inside the complex patient, and this grammatical operation often makes use of causative
verbs (21), morphemes like the reflexive se in Romance languages (22), or both elements, as
in French (23):
(21) John had his hair cut. (English)
(22) Juan se cortó el pelo. (Spanish)
Juan SE cut  the hair
(23) Jean s’est fait couper les  cheveux. (French)
Jean SE made cut   the hair
380  Márcia Cançado and Anabela Gonçalves
In BP, the same alternation can be achieved without resorting to causative verbs or
­
morphemes like the clitic se. So, the structure [DP1 V [DP2’s DP3]] simply alternates with
[DP2 V DP3]:
(24)  a.  O cabeleireiro cortou o cabelo do João.
the hairdresser cut the hair of‐the João
“The hairdresser cut João’s hair.”
b. O João cortou o cabelo.
the João cut  the hair
“João had his hair cut.”
The second alternation that will interest us here concerns verbs like quebrar “break,” abrir
“open,” estragar “ruin,” rasgar “rip”:
(25) a. Alguém quebrou o braço do João.
someone broke  the arm of‐the João
“Someone broke João’s arm.”
b. O João quebrou  o  braço.
the João broke  the arm
“João broke his arm.”
Syntactically, the structure [DP1 V [DP2’s DP3]] in (25a) alternates with [DP3 V DP2] in
(25b), in the same way as in (24a, b). Based on these examples, one could conclude that
the ­
sentences in (24) and (25) illustrate the same alternation. In fact, some studies do
argue for this analysis, claiming that in both cases the agent alternates with a possessor
in the subject position, which is known as the “possessor raising construction.” Levin
(1993) shows that sentences like Carrie broke her arm and Sylvia cut her finger are also
­
possible in English—in an “unintentional interpretation with body‐part object,” in
Levin’s words, or in an intentional reading. However, while the sentence interpretation
with break corresponds to (25b) in BP (in both readings), the sentence interpretation with
cut is not equivalent to (24b). In fact, although the English sentence means that Sylvia has
intentionally or unintentionally injured herself, which is also possible in BP due to cut
polysemous behavior, the meaning of cut in (24b) is slightly different: someone inten-
tionally has cut his own hair, or someone intentionally has his hair cut by someone else.
We will only focus on this latter meaning.
Cançado (2010) shows that there are semantic and syntactic properties that distinguish
the sentences in (24) and (25). According to the author, the differences are due to lexical prop-
erties of the verbs involved, which must be classified into two distinct classes. The goal of the
next two sections is to understand the semantic and syntactic properties of these verb classes
in BP and to provide an analysis of the relevant semantic structures. The section on EP (3.2)
will rely on this analysis.
3.1.1.  The agent–beneficiary and the part–whole alternations in BP
As we mentioned before, the first point to observe is that both sentences in (24b) and (25b)
can have an agentive interpretation: João cut / broke his own hair / arm. This interpretation is
not the alternate form of the sentences in (a); it is a reflexive use of the verbs cut and break.
However, these sentences can have another reading, in an alternate form. As shown for
English, sentence (25b) can also mean that João has unintentionally injured himself.
Nonetheless, the sentence in (24b) cannot have this interpretation, but it can mean that João
Lexical Semantics: Verb Classes and Alternations  381
intentionally had his hair cut by someone else. Cançado (2010) shows that the sentence in
(24b), with cortar “cut”‐type verbs, can have the reading in (26), which is not adequate to
quebrar “break”‐type verbs in (28):
(26)  “João had someone cut his hair deliberately.”
(27)  ? “João had someone break his arm deliberately.”
Instead, a good paraphrase of (25b) would be (28):
(28)  “João’s arm broke.”
Empirical evidence can make these distinctions more explicit. The sentence in (24b) only
allows an adjunct that denotes control/volition over the event, as in (29), while the sentence
in (25b) only accepts an adjunct that implies the opposite, as in (30):
(29) O  João cortou o cabelo  deliberadamente/*acidentalmente.
the João cut the hair  deliberately/   accidentally
“João had his hair cut deliberately/*accidentally.”
(30) O  João  quebrou o braço acidentalmente/*deliberadamente.
the João broke  the arm  accidentally/  deliberately
“João broke his arm accidentally/*deliberately.”
Besides, sentences with cortar‐type verbs accept an agent in an adjunct position, which is
not permitted for sentences with quebrar‐type verbs:
(31) O  João cortou o  cabelo com um bom  cabeleireiro. 
the João cut  the hair with a  good hairdresser
“João had his hair cut by a good hairdresser.”
(32) *O João quebrou o  braço com alguém. 
the  João broke  the arm  with someone
Another difference between these two verb classes is that sentences with cortar‐type verbs
cannot have inanimate subjects in the alternate form, but the sentences with quebrar‐type
verbs can:
(33) *A árvore cortou o  galho.
the  tree  cut  the branch
(34)  A  árvore quebrou o   galho.
the tree broke the branch
“The tree’s branch broke.”
These data led Cançado (2010) to conclude that the subject of the sentence in (24b), with
cortar “cut,” has some kind of agentivity, and can be interpreted as if an indirect agent licenses
another agent to act in his place. This linguistic phenomenon allows both “agents” to be pre-
sent in the sentence—it is worth observing that this interpretation is not comitative in BP in
(31). Differently, the alternate sentence in (25b) shows that the possessor, in subject position,
382  Márcia Cançado and Anabela Gonçalves
is necessarily associated with the argument in object position, and it can only have an affected
reading.
There is a further syntactic difference between these verb classes, related to the causative–
inchoative alternation: cortar‐type verbs do not undergo this alternation; in contrast, quebrar‐
type verbs accept it.
(35) *O  cabelo do  João (se) cortou.
the hair of‐the João(SE) cut
(36) O  braço do   
João (se)  quebrou.
the arm of‐the João (SE) broke
“João’s arm broke.”
Thus, up to here we have shown evidence that we are dealing with two verb classes,
which have distinct syntactic and semantic properties. Following Cançado et al. (2013), we
call the alternation that occurs with cortar‐type verbs “the agent–beneficiary alternation,”
which is highly productive in BP as opposed to other Romance languages (see the comparison
with EPin Section 3.2). In (37) to (49), we present some further examples of the agent–beneficiary
alternation:
(37)  A  Maria lavou  o  carro (com o  rapaz do  escritório).
the Maria washed the car (with the boy of‐the office)
“Maria had her car washed (by the office boy).”
(38) O  João extraiu  o  dente (com o  dentista da  vizinhança).
the João extracted the tooth (with the dentist  of‐the neighborhood)
‘“João had his tooth extracted (by the neighborhood dentist).”
(39) O  João operou    
o  nariz (com um  médico famoso).
the João operated‐on the nose (with a doctor famous)
“João had his nose operated on (by a famous doctor).”
The agent–beneficiary alternation is frequent in BP: in a collection of data containing 862
verbs (Cançado et al. 2013), 144 accept this alternation. In (40), we present a sample of these
verbs:
(40) afiar “sharpen,” anestesiar “anesthetize,” limpar “clean,” consertar “fix,” decorar
“decorate (a house),” demolir “demolish,” construir “build,” esterilizar “sterilize,”
fotografar “photograph,” gravar “record,” pintar “paint,” radiografar “radiograph,”
retirar “remove,” remover “remove”
The second alternation, the one that occurs with quebrar‐type verbs, is not unusual and is
found in many other languages. As we have already mentioned, Levin (1993) calls this
alternation type the “unintentional interpretation with body‐part object,” also possible in
English: John broke his arm. We find this alternation in EP as well, but it has properties slightly
different from those of the BP alternation, as we will show in Section 3.2. Both in English and
in EP, it seems that the relation established between the possessor and the possessed element
must be a body‐part relation, like a relation between a person and his / her arms, legs,
etc. In BP, nevertheless, one can find many examples with other part–whole relations,
Lexical Semantics: Verb Classes and Alternations  383
a possibility unavailable in English, and even in EP, as far as we know. Furthermore, in BP, a
cause can also appear as an adjunct:
(41)  A árvore	 quebrou	 o	 galho	 (com	 a	 ventania).
the tree	 broke	 the	 branch	 (with	 the	wind)
“The branch of the tree broke because of the wind.”
(42) O	 relógio	 estragou	 o	 ponteiro	 (com	 o	 tempo).
the	 clock	 ruined	 the	 hand	 (with	 the	 time)
“The clock’s hand ruined with time.”
(43) O	 casaco	rasgou	 a	 manga	 (com	 a	 lavagem).
the	 coat	 ripped	 the	 sleeve	 (with	 the	 washing)
“My coat’s sleeve ripped from the washing.”
In this case, the “possessor” (whole) of an affected object (part) is raised to the subject posi-
tion of a transitive alternate form of the verb.2
We call this alternation the “part–whole
alternation,” following Cançado et al. (2013), who found 230 verbs of this type, in the same
collection of data mentioned previously. This shows that, like the agent–beneficiary alternation,
the part–whole alternation is productive in BP. We list some verbs that allow it in (44):
(44) apagar “switch out,” apodrecer “rot,” arranhar “scratch,” arruinar “ruin,” arrebentar
“burst,” contundir “bruise,” desbotar “discolor,” machucar “hurt,” queimar “burn,”
rasgar “tear,” torcer “ twist,” trincar “crack” …
To conclude, the agent–beneficiary alternation and the part–whole alternation in BP are
characteristic of two different verb classes, namely cortar‐type class and quebrar‐type class.
In the next section, we will sketch an analysis of these phenomena, with the aim of deter-
mining which semantic properties in the lexical structures of these verbs allow them to enter
these alternations.
3.1.2.  Lexical semantic representations and constraints
In this section, we use the predicate decomposition approach to identify the verb classes that
trigger agent–beneficiary and part–whole alternations. As show in Section 2, this type of
semantic representation captures coarse, medium and fine‐grained distinctions among verb
classes, which is crucial for our analysis. Here we follow Cançado et al. (2013) and Cançado
and Negrão (2010), who present a deeper analysis of the data, in particular of the semantic
and the pragmatic conditions involved.
The agent–beneficiary alternation occurs with agentive transitive verbs from the cortar‐
type class, as illustrated in Section 3.1.1. However, being an agentive transitive verb is a
necessary but not a sufficient condition, for there are verbs that satisfy this condition and still
do not allow the alternation (the sentences b. below are grammatical only under a ­
comitative
reading):
(45)  a.  O  João pulou	 a	 cerca do	 vizinho.
the João jumped	 the	 fence	 of‐the neighbor
“João jumped the neighbor’s fence.”
b. *O	 vizinho	 pulou	 a	 cerca	 (com	 o	 João).
the 	 neighbor	 jumped	 the	 fence	 (with	the	 João)
384  Márcia Cançado and Anabela Gonçalves
(46)  a.  A	 cantora	 cantou	a	 música	do	 Jobim.
the	singer	 sang	 the	music	 of‐the	Jobim
“The singer sang Jobim’s song.”
b. *O	 Jobim	 cantou	 a	 música	 (com	 a	 cantora).
the	Jobim	sang	 the	music	 (with	 the	 singer)
Recall Levin and Rappaport Hovav’s (1995) proposal: the external argument of internally
caused verbs presents some inherent property that is responsible for bringing about the
eventuality; in turn, externally caused verbs entail the existence of an external cause with
immediate control on bringing about the eventuality denoted by the verb. Based on this, we
observe that the verbs in (45) and (46) denote internally caused events, while verbs in (37) to
(39) (lavar “wash,” extrair “extract,” operar “operate”), which accept the agent–beneficiary
alternation, denote externally caused events. Thus, the first constraint on this alternation is
that the verbs that participate in the alternation cannot belong to the internally caused verb
class. As we have shown before, this is a coarse‐grained semantic distinction that can be rep-
resented by the verb schema [X ACT <MANNER>
]. So, we can conclude that verbs which present
this semantic predicate structure cannot participate in the agent–beneficiary alternation.
However, Cançado and Negrão (2010) observed that some verbs that meet this “exter-
nally caused event” condition still do not permit the alternation. The authors concluded that
there is an additional, pragmatic, condition: the alternation is allowed only if the VP refers to
a kind of action that one usually asks someone else, an expert, to do for him/her; otherwise,
the alternation fails. Consider (47) and (48):
(47) a. O	 João	 derrubou	 o	 vaso	 do	 José.
the	João	 broke down	 the	 pot	 of‐the	 José
“João broke down José’s pot.”
b.  *O	 José	 derrubou	 o	 vaso	 com	 o	 João.
the	 José	 broke down	the	 pot	 with	 the	 João
(grammatical under the comitative reading)
(48) a.  Um	ótimo	 pedreiro	 derrubou	 as	 paredes	 da	 casa	 do	 João.
a	 great	 bricklayer	broke down	 the	 walls	 of‐the	 house	 of‐the	 João
“A great bricklayer broke down the walls of João’s house.”
b. O	 João	 derrubou	 as	 paredes	 da	 sua	 casa	 com	 um	 ótimo
the	 João	 broke down	 the	 walls	 of‐the	 his	 house	 with	 a	 great
pedreiro.
bricklayer
“João had the walls of his house broken down by a great bricklayer.”
In both examples, we have the same verb, derrubar “break down,” which denotes an externally
caused event and which, considering only the first condition, should participate in the
alternation. Nevertheless, since it is not usual to ask an “expert in breaking down pots” to
break down a pot for you, the alternation fails in (47). In contrast, it is usual to ask a brick-
layer to do the job of breaking down walls and, consequently, the alternation holds in (48).
These examples show that the agent–beneficiary alternation is constrained by both lexical
and pragmatic factors.
Regarding the part–whole alternation, the first observable restriction comes from a
medium‐grained size classification, based on the verbs’ schemas proposed in (13), (14), and
Lexical Semantics: Verb Classes and Alternations  385
(15). Of these three classes, only the first one—verbs that denote change of state—accept the
part–whole alternation. Preliminarily, the condition proposed by Cançado et al. (2013) is that
for a verb to occur in the part–whole alternation, it must entail a change of state, which is
represented by the following semantic structure:
(49) [ BECOME [ Y <STATE> ] ]
It is worth remarking that this alternation applies both to basically causative verbs ((41)
to (43)), and to basically inchoative verbs ((50), (51)), in Haspelmath’s (1993) terms:
(50)  a.  As	 ideias	 do	 adolescente	 amadureceram.
the	 ideas	 of‐the	 teenager	 ripened
“The teenager’s ideas ripened.”
b. O	 adolescente	 amadureceu	 as	 ideias.
the	 teenager	 ripened	 the	 ideas
“The teenager’s ideas ripened.”
(51)  a. A	 fechadura	 do	 portão	 enferrujou.
the	 lock	 of‐the	 front door	 rusted
“The front door’s lock rusted.”
b. O	 portão	 enferrujou	 a	 fechadura.
the	 front	 door rusted	 the	 lock
“The front door’s lock rusted.”
However, Cançado et al. (2013) point out that entailing a change of state is a necessary but
not a sufficient condition, because there are some verbs in the change‐of‐state class (basically
causative or basically inchoative) that do not accept the part–whole alternation. For example,
preocupar “worry” and adoecer “get sick” are change‐of‐state verbs; evidence for this fact is
that they accept the causative–inchoative or inchoative–causative alternation, which is a
­
typical property of this class, according to the authors:
(52) a. A	 conversa	 aborreceu	 a	 Maria.
the	 conversation	 bored	 the	 Maria
“The conversation bored Maria.”
b. A	 Maria	 (se)	 aborreceu	 (com	 a	 conversa).
the	 Maria	 (SE)	 bored	 (with	 the	 conversation)
“Maria got bored (with the conversation).”
(53) a. O	 bebê	 adoeceu	 (com	 o	 tempo	 frio).
the	 baby	 got sick	 (with	 the	 weather	 cold)
“The baby got sick with the cold weather.”
b. O	 tempo	 frio	 adoeceu	 o	 bebê.
the	 weather	 cold got	 sick	 the	 baby
“The cold weather made the baby sick.”
386  Márcia Cançado and Anabela Gonçalves
Nevertheless, these verbs do not accept an argument denoting a part–whole relation in
object (causative verbs) or subject position (inchoative verbs), which prevents the alternate
sentences in (54b) and (55b):
(54)  a.  *A	 conversa	 aborreceu	 a	 cabeça	 da	 Maria.
the	 conversation	 bored	 the	 head	 of‐the	 Maria
b. *A	 Maria	 aborreceu	 a	 cabeça.
the	 Maria	 bored	 the	 head
(55) a. *O	 pulmão	 do	 bebê	 adoeceu	 (com	 o	 tempo	 frio).
the	 lung	 of‐the	 baby	 got sick	 (with	 the	 weather	 cold)
b. *O	 bebê	 adoeceu	 o	 pulmão.
the	 baby	 got sick	 the	 lung
Thus, a fine‐grained distinction is also necessary: the part–whole alternation is possible
only when the verb selects for an object (basically causative verbs), or a subject (basically
inchoative verbs) that can denote a part–whole relation, this being a selectional restriction of
the verb. The verbs in (54) and (55) do not accept a part–whole argument, and, consequently,
the alternation fails. All the 230 verbs examined by Cançado et al. (2013) meet the two condi-
tions proposed.3
Having delimited the semantic and pragmatic conditions that constrain the part–
whole and the agent–beneficiary alternations in BP, we now examine the corresponding
facts of EP.
3.2.  Data from European Portuguese
In EP, the pattern [DP1 V [DP2’s DP3]] also alternates with [DP2 V DP3]] in the context of
cortar and quebrar‐type verbs:
(56)  O  João cortou o cabelo.
the João cut the hair
“João had his hair cut.”
(57)  O João partiu o  braço.4
the João broke the arm
“João broke his arm.”
As in BP, there is empirical evidence to consider (56) and (57) two different kinds of verb
alternations in EP: agent–beneficiary and part–whole respectively. In particular, (i) only
adjuncts denoting control/volition are allowed in sentences with cortar‐type verbs, the
opposite being observed in sentences with quebrar‐type verbs (see the BP examples in (29)
and (30), which are grammatical in EP, too); (ii) cortar‐type verbs do not allow for the causa-
tive–inchoative alternation, as opposed to quebrar‐type ones (see the BP examples in (35) and
(36); the only difference between BP and EP is the clitic position—proclitic in the former,
enclitic in the latter).
However, the two alternations do not have exactly the same properties in EP and BP.
Consider first, the part–whole alternation illustrated in (57).
As we have previously showed, in BP the part–whole alternation occurs with change‐of‐state
verbs—that is, verbs that contain the structure [BECOME Y <STATE>] in their semantic rep-
resentation—provided that these verbs accept an argument denoting a part–whole relation.
Lexical Semantics: Verb Classes and Alternations  387
However, in EP, this alternation is more severely constrained. First, not all change‐of‐state
verbs enter the alternation, even if they meet the part–whole argument condition:
(58) a.  As	 ideias	 do	 adolescente	 amadureceram.	(OK
BP/OK
EP)
the	ideas	of‐the	teenager	 ripened
“The teenager’s ideas ripened.”
b. O	 adolescente	 amadureceu	 as	 ideias	 (com	 o	 tempo).	(OK
BP/*EP)
the	 teenager	 ripened	 the	 ideas	(with	the	time)
“The teenager’s ideas ripened (over time).”
(with the meaning that something ripened
the teenager’s ideas)
This contrast leads us to the first restriction for EP: only basically causative verbs (Haspelmath
1993) allow the part–whole alternation; basically inchoative verbs preclude it. This accounts
for the contrast between (57) and (58a) in that variety.
The restriction on the verb class in nonetheless insufficient. In fact, the alternation is even
more restricted in EP: sentences in (59) and (60) below, which are possible in BP, are ungram-
matical in EP, in spite of involving basically causative verbs:
(59) A	 árvore	 quebrou	 o	 galho.	 (BP)	/	*A	 árvore	 partiu	 o	 ramo.	 (EP)
the	 tree	 broke	 the	 branch		 /	the	 tree	 broke	 the	 branch
“The branch of the tree broke.”
(60)  O	 relógio	 estragou	 o	 ponteiro.	 (OK
BP/*
EP)
the	 clock	 ruined	 the	 hand
“The hand of the clock (was) ruined.”
In section 3.1.1, we accounted for the BP data by saying that this language is less restrictive
than others with respect to the relation between the (raised) possessor and the possessed
element. As we have shown, not only the body–part relation but also other part–whole rela-
tions—e.g., between an object and a piece of it—are available for the BP part–whole alternation,
which accounts for the grammaticality of (59) and (60). Like other languages, EP is more
restrictive than BP in that relations between objects and their parts do not license the part–
whole alternation. This fact explains not only the ungrammaticality of (59) and (60), but also the
contrast between (61) and (62) in EP ((61) has both the relevant unintentional reading, and an
intentional one, too):
(61) O	 João	 queimou	 a	 mão.	 (OK
BP/ OK
EP)
the	 João	 burned	 the	 hand
“João burnt his hand./João had his hand burnt.”
(62) O	 carro	 queimou	 o	 motor.	 (OK
BP/*EP)
the	 car	 burned	 the	 engine
“The car engine caught fire.”
Thus, in EP the part–whole alternation is accepted only if a body‐part relation is involved;
in BP, all part–whole relations (including the body‐part one) are possible. It is worth noting,
however, that the body‐part relation must be understood in a broad sense in the two vari-
eties. In fact, (63b) below is possible both in EP and in BP with the required interpretation if
388  Márcia Cançado and Anabela Gonçalves
João was wearing the coat when the wind ripped it, as if the coat was part of him—this is
close to the concept of inalienable possession underlying the body‐part relation. Otherwise,
an agentive reading of the subject obtains (in which case João need not be wearing the coat),
and the causative PP is excluded.
(63)  a.  O	 vento	 rasgou	 o	 casaco	 do	 João.
the	 wind	 ripped	 the	 coat	 of‐the	 João
“The wind ripped João’s coat.”
b. O	 João	 rasgou	 o	 casaco	 (com	 o	 vento).
the	 João	 ripped	 the	 coat	 (with	 the	 wind)
“João had his coat ripped by the wind.”
If the possessor and the possessed element in the complex object do not establish the required
(part–whole or body‐part) relationship, the part–whole alternation is forbidden, as expected. Thus,
(64) below is ungrammatical in both varieties with the relevant reading (the one in which João had
his carpet burned—a case of the part–whole alternation), because the carpet can never be viewed
as part of João. This contrasts with (63b), in which the coat could somehow be a part of João, as
mentioned. Therefore, (64) is interpretable only under an agentive reading of the subject.
(64) *O	 João	 queimou	 o	 tapete	 (com	 um	 cigarro).
the	 João	 burned	 the	 carpet	 (with	 a	 cigarette)
The fact that the part–whole alternation is restricted to the context of body‐part relations
in EP is also responsible for the impossibility of inanimate subjects in this variety. On the
contrary, BP accepts that kind of subjects, as long as a part–whole relation holds. Compare
(63b), grammatical in both varieties, with (65b), grammatical only in BP:
(65) a. O	 vento	 rasgou	 as	 mangas	 do	 casaco.
the	 wind	 ripped	 the	 sleeves	 of‐the	 coat
“The wind ripped the sleeves of the coat.”
b. O	 casaco	 rasgou	 as	 mangas	 com	 o	 vento.	 (*EP/OK
BP)
the	 coat	 ripped	 the	 sleeves	 with	 the	 wind
“The wind ripped the sleeves of the coat.”
To sum up, EP displays the part–whole alternation, but this is constrained by the subtype
of change‐of‐state verbs involved (only basically causative verbs), the relationship between
possessor and possessed element (only body‐part or a kind of body‐part relationship), and
consequently the semantic features of the possessor (only animate possessors).5
As for the agent–beneficiary alternation in (66) below, there is some fluctuation in the gram-
maticality judgments of EP speakers. Thus, although (66b) is unanimously accepted with the
required interpretation (João asked someone/the hairdresser to do something in his place),
(66c) is more problematic, and some speakers even reject it in the relevant interpretation:
(66) a.  O	 cabeleireiro	 cortou	 o	 cabelo	 do	 João.
the	 hairdresser	 cut	 the	 hair	 of‐the	 João
“The hairdresser cut João’s hair.”
b. O	 João	 cortou	 o	 cabelo.
the	João	cut	 the	 hair
“John had his hair cut.”
c. ?/*O	 João	 cortou	 o	 cabelo	 com	 o	 cabeleireiro.
the	 João	 cut	 the	 hair	 with	 the	 hairdresser
“John had his hair cut by the hairdresser.”
Lexical Semantics: Verb Classes and Alternations  389
For some EP speakers, the PP in (66c), as well as the PPs in (37) to (39) above, have a comitative
reading: the DP subject and the DP inside the PP are a kind of discontinuous agent, and the
first does not necessarily denote the possessor of the direct object.
Speakers who accept the agent–beneficiary alternation consider that this possibility is
strongly constrained by pragmatic conditions, something we have already noticed for BP.
Thus, (38) and (39) are more easily accepted than (37) with the interpretation underlying the
agent–beneficiary alternation because we know that teeth are extracted by dentists and nose
surgery is performed by doctors. So, knowledge of the world leads to the inference that the
action is performed by the entity denoted by the DP inside the PP.
It is worth noting that in EP the agent–beneficiary alternation is widely accepted if the PP
is not lexically present. In this case, the sentences are potentially ambiguous: the subject DP
may be interpreted as the agent (no alternation being at stake) or the beneficiary (thus illus-
trating the agent–beneficiary alternation). Again, knowledge of the world may facilitate one
of the readings: for instance, in (67) and (68) the subject may correspond either to the agent
or to the beneficiary (in the latter case, the agent remains implicit), but in (69) it is preferably
interpreted as the beneficiary, because it is hard for people to operate on their own nose.
(67) A	 Maria	 lavou	 o	 carro.
the	 Maria	 washed	 the	 car
“Maria washed her car.”/“Maria had her car washed.”
(68) O	 João	 arrancou	 o	 dente.
the	 João	 extracted	 the	 tooth
“João extracted his tooth.”/“João had his tooth extracted.”
(69) O João operou o nariz.
the João operated‐on the nose
“João operated on his nose.”/“João had his nose operated on.”
When allowed, the agent–beneficiary alternation in EP does not hold with internally
caused verbs, the same being true for BP (see example (46), repeated in (70); in (70b), the PP
only has a comitative reading):
(70)  a.  A	 cantora	 cantou	 a	 música	 do	 Jobim.
the	 singer	 sang	 the	 music	 of‐the	 Jobim
“The singer sang Jobim’s song.”
b. *O	 Jobim	 cantou	 a	 música	 (com	 a	 cantora).
the	 Jobim	 sang	 the	 music	 (with	 the	 singer)
In sum, the agent–beneficiary alternation is less productive in EP than in BP. First, some
EP speakers reject it; second, those who accept it still do it only under severely constrained
pragmatic conditions.
4.  Final considerations
In this chapter, we discussed the properties of a few verb classes and argument alternations
in BP and EP. In order to do this, we adopted the predicate decomposition approach, which
seems to be adequate for the analysis of two specific alternations found in Portuguese that
have received little attention in the literature: the part–whole and the agent–beneficiary
alternations. We tried to show that the predicate decomposition approach explains not only
the main properties of these alternations, but also the differences between BP and EP: the
390  Márcia Cançado and Anabela Gonçalves
alternations are present in both varieties of Portuguese, but they are more productive in BP
than in EP. In particular, in BP the part–whole alternation occurs with change‐of‐state verbs
provided that they select for an object denoting a part–whole relation, while in EP only
change‐of‐state verbs that are basically causative enter the alternation; in addition, EP only
accepts this alternation if a body‐part relation is involved, which accounts for the fact that
the possessor must be animate. As for the agent–beneficiary alternation, the data show that
it is constrained by lexical and pragmatic factors in both varieties of Portuguese: on the one
hand, only externally caused verbs enter the construction; on the other hand, it is allowed
only if the VP refers to an action that one usually asks someone else (an expert) to do for him.
This alternation is much more accepted among BP speakers; in EP, speakers prefer to omit
the PP containing the agentive DP, thus avoiding the comitative reading of this PP.
In closing the chapter, we would like to briefly mention some of the research carried out
in lexical semantics for BP and EP. Besides the studies already referred, we can point out
some other work on the interface between lexical semantics and syntax which investigated
the relation between semantic properties and argument realization.
For BP, Whitaker‐Franchi (1989) offers a seminal analysis for the causative–inchoative
alternation, based on Jackendoff’s proposal. Souza (1999) also deals with the causative
alternation in BP through a comparison between Hale and Keiser’s lexical syntactic approach
and Pustejovsky’s generative lexical approach. Camacho (2003) aims at providing formal,
semantic and typological evidence in order to postulate a distinction between middle and
reflexive–reciprocal constructions, the causative–inchoative alternation being included in
the middle construction. Finally, it is worth mentioning Ribeiro (2010), who investigates the
distribution of the clitic se in the causative alternation in BP.
For EP, the causative–inchoative alternation is also the focus of several works, both from a
syntactic and a (lexical) semantic viewpoint. Eliseu (1984) focuses on the syntax of Portuguese
unaccusative verbs, and analyzes that alternation in two constructions: AVB/BV pairs and
constructionswithunaccusative(ergative)se.ThisstudywasdevelopedwithintheGovernment
and Binding Theory and tests the unaccusativity hypothesis. More recently, the causative–
inchoative alternation has been described in Matos (1999), in a wider work on causative con-
structions in Portuguese, and analyzed in accordance to Levin and Rappaport Hovav’s work.
Mendes (2004) deals with the causative–inchoative alternation, in particular with psychological
verbs. See also Duarte (2013) for a general description of this alternation in EP.
Obviously, the list of authors dealing with this phenomenon in BP and EP does not end
with the references above. In any case, as far as we know, the two kinds of alternations we
discussed in this work have not been explored for EP previously.
Notes
1	 The authors thank Luana Amaral for helpful comments, the EP speakers who helped us with their
judgments, and the editor Sérgio Menuzzi for the detailed revision and very helpful suggestions.
The work was supported by CNPq and FAPEMIG (Márcia Cançado), and Centro de Linguística da
Universidade de Lisboa ‐ PEst‐OE/LIN/UI0214/2013 (Anabela Gonçalves).
2	 Actually, the possessor is a non‐canonical subject in this construction. This is known as the “subject topics
phenomenon”, which consists of the movement of a genitive into subject position, and is considered
as a subtype of topicalization by many authors.
3	 There is another type of verb that accepts this alternation (Levin 1993): The girl hit her head in the door.
This sentence is also grammatical in Portuguese, although hit is not a change‐of‐state verb. Therefore,
the conclusion is that if the verb belongs to a change‐of‐state class, it will accept the part–whole
alternation, although there are other classes that accept it too. However, the fine‐grained distinction—
the verb accepting a part–whole object—still holds for the alternation with these other verb classes.
Lexical Semantics: Verb Classes and Alternations  391
4	In this context, EP uses the verb partir with the same meaning as quebrar.
5	 The fact that BP is less restrictive than EP with respect to the part–whole alternation may be related
to the possibility of subject topics in that variety, a phenomenon that is not available in EP. In this
case, we should emphasize that raising the possessor to the subject position is a generalized strategy
in BP, considering possession in a broad sense (a part–whole relation). In EP, only human possessors
involved in body‐part relationships (a kind of inalienable possession) can surface as the subject of a
possessor‐raised sentence.
References
Camacho, R. (2003). Em defesa da categoria de voz
média no português. DELTA, 19 (1), pp. 91–122.
Cançado, M. (2010). Verbal alternations in
Brazilian Portuguese: a lexical semantic
approach. Studies in Hispanic and Lusophone
Linguistics, 3 (1), pp. 77–111.
Cançado, M. and C. Franchi (1999). Exceptional
binding with psych verbs? Linguistic Inquiry,
30 (1), pp. 133–143.
Cançado, M., L. Godoy, and L. Amaral (2013).
Catálogo de verbos do português brasileiro:
classificação verbal segundo a decomposição de
predicados (Vol. I – Verbos de mudança). Belo
Horizonte: Editora UFMG.
Cançado, M. and E. Negrão (2010). Two possessor
raising constructions in Brazilian Portuguese.
VIII Workshop on Formal Linguistics / USP.
Dowty, D. (1991). Thematic proto‐roles and
argument selection. Language, 67 (3), pp. 547–619.
Duarte, I. (2013). Construções ativas, passivas,
incoativas e médias. In E. Raposo, M. F.
Bacelar, M. A. Mota, L. Segura, and A. Mendes
(eds.), Gramática do Português. Lisbon:
Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian, pp. 429–458.
Eliseu, A. (1984). Verbos Ergativos do Português:
Descrição e Análise. Masters dissertation,
Universidade de Lisboa.
Fillmore, C. (1970). The grammar of hitting and
breaking. In R. Jacobs and P. Rosenbaum,
Readings in English Transformational Grammar.
Waltham, MA: Ginn, pp. 120–133.
Grimshaw, J. (2005). Words and Structure.
Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications.
Haspelmath, M. (1993). More on the typology of
inchoative/causative verb alternations. In B.
Comrie and M. Polinsky, Causatives and
transitivity. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 87–120.
Jackendoff, R. (1990). Semantic Structures.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Levin, B. (1993). English Verb Classes and
Alternations: A Preliminary Investigation.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Levin, B. (2010). What is the best grain‐size for
defining verb classes? Conference on Word
Classes: Nature, Typology, Computational
Representations, Second TRIPLE International
Conference, Università Roma Tre, Rome,
March 24–26.
Levin, B. and M. Rappaport Hovav (1995).
Unaccusativity: At the Syntax Lexical Semantics
Interface. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Levin, B. and M. Rappaport Hovav (2005).
Argument Realization. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Matos, G. (1999). Desvio e Conhecimento
Linguístico em Construções Causativas do
Português Europeu. In I. H. Faria (ed.), Lindley
Cintra. Homenagem ao Homem, ao Mestre e ao
Cidadão. Lisbon: Edições Cosmos, pp. 541–564.
Mendes, A. (2004). Predicados Verbais Psicológicos
do Português. Um Contributo para o Estudo da
Polissemia Verbal. Lisbon: Fundação Calouste
Gulbenkian.
Pesetsky, D. (1995). Zero Syntax. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Pinker, S. (1989). Learnability and Cognition:
The Acquisition of Argument Structure.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Ribeiro, P. (2010). A alternância causativa no
português do Brasil: a distribuição do clítico
se. Masters dissertation, Universidade Federal
de Ciências da Saúde de Porto Alegre.
Souza, P. (1999). A alternância causativa no
português do Brasil: defaults num léxico gerativo.
Ph.D. dissertation, University of São Paulo.
Van Valin, R. (2005). Exploring the Syntax‐Semantics
Interface. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Whitaker‐Franchi, R. (1989). As construções
ergativas: um estudo sintático e semântico.
Masters dissertation, Unicamp.
Wunderlich, D. (2012). Lexical decomposition in
grammar. In M. Werning, W. Hinzen, and
E. Machery (eds.), The Oxford Handbook of
Compositionality. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, pp. 307–327.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
In Portuguese, as in most Romance languages, the word that means tense also means
time. For the first grammarians of Portuguese (e.g. Fernão de Oliveira, João de Barros,
Contador de Argote, amongst others), speaking about tenses was the same as speaking
about time, i.e. locating events in present, past or future time. In that framework, tenses
were considered as divisions of moods, and the Indicative was said to have in all six
“simple” tenses: (1) present –canto “I sing”; (2) imperfect—cantava “I used to sing/was
singing”; (3) perfect—cantei “I sang”; (4) pluperfect—cantara “I had sung”; (5) future—
cantarei “I will sing”; (6) conditional—cantaria “I would sing”;1
and four “compound”
tenses: (7) compound preterit (henceforth PPC, from “pretérito perfeito composto”)—eu
tenho cantado, literally “I have sung”; (8) compound pluperfect—eu tinha cantado, “I had
sung”; (9) compound future—eu terei cantado, “I will have sung”; (10) past conditional—
eu teria cantado “I would have sung.” This array of tenses is still described as the “paradigm”
of verb inflection for the Indicative.
From a linguistic perspective, things are not that clear: both in European and Brazilian
Portuguese (henceforth EP and BP), the simple pluperfect in (4) above is rarely used,2
and
neither is the simple future (6), as oncoming events are most usually referred to in the pre-
sent or in a construction containing ir (“to go”) plus a main verb.3
But ir is only one among
the auxiliary or semi‐auxiliary verbs that enter compound forms with the infinitive, the past
participle or the gerund of a main verb.4
These compound forms are pervasive both in EP
and BP, in spoken and written language, in environments where simple forms were
mandatory in past centuries and still are in other Romance languages, and this raises a
question about the boundaries of the verb paradigm. Assuming that the auxiliaries exert the
function of the old morphemes, we could include in an “enlarged” paradigm of the
Portuguese verb periphrastic forms like estou EP
a procurar/BP
procurando “I am looking for/
searching,” EP,BP
vou procurar “I will look for/search,” and EP,BP
acabo de encontrar “I have just
found,” to quote just a few.5
The aim of this chapter is to account for time and aspect contents of Portuguese sentences,
and so the first obvious thing to do is to look at tenses. But Portuguese grammar puts tenses
to many other uses, as illustrated by the following examples:
(1)  Agora eu era o herói e meu cavalo só falava inglês.
“Now I was the hero, and my horse spoke English only.”
(2)  Se eu fosse um peixinho e soubesse nadar, levava você para o fundo do mar.
“If I were a little fish and I could swim, I would take you to the bottom of the sea.”
Tense and Aspect: A Survey
Rodolfo Ilari, Maria Fátima Oliveira,
and Renato Miguel Basso
21
Tense and Aspect: A Survey  393
In (1), from a song by Brazilian composer Chico Buarque de Hollanda, a boy invites his girl
playmate to imagine a fantasy world where he is a hero. Here, imperfects do not denote past
events; rather, they introduce a fairytale world. Similarly, in the nursery rhyme (2), fosse,
soubesse and levava inform that the events evoked in both sentences are unreal.6
These modal
usages of imperfect don’t seem to have anything to do with time.7
It would be a mistake to ask simply what time or aspect information is given by
tenses per se, because tenses are just one of the building blocks of the time and aspect
information given by sentences. In the semantics of sentences, contents provided by
tenses interact in many ways with many other factors, the most relevant ones being:
(1) the lexical content of predicates, (2) auxiliaries and semi‐auxiliaries, (3) adjuncts, and
(4) the semantic nature (e.g. count vs. non‐count) and quantificational properties of the
arguments of the verb. In order to deal with these factors, we need to answer the follow-
ing questions:
•	 What happens when such and such tense is associated with such and such predicate?
•	 What happens when a particular auxiliary is introduced in the sentence?
•	 What is the point of combining tenses and adjuncts?
•	 To what extent can the quantification of NPs modify the aspectual information given by
the verb?
1. Time
In this section, only temporal usages will be considered.
1.1.  Time and tenses
Time is usually represented as a line oriented from left to right, which corresponds to past‐
to‐future orientation. In this line, the information given by tenses is represented by the
relative location of different points or intervals. Although present, past and future are nat-
urally associated to events located at speech time, before speech time or after speech time, as
shown in Figure 21.1a–c, a third moment is required for the interpretation of pluperfects
and conditionals used as futures relatively to a past time and for most uses of imperfect, as
in Figure 21.1d–f (“ST” stands for “speech time” in the figure; and “ET” for “event time”).
This third moment, called reference time, is identified by several means, including adjuncts
(as in (3)), subordinate clauses and the chronological information given by the context
(as in (4)). Contextual retrieval is crucial for the interpretation of these tenses, and gives
them an anaphoric nature.
(3) Na manhã do dia 25 de agosto, os jornais noticiaram que o presidente tinha‐se suicidado às
23 horas da véspera.
“In the morning of August 25, the newspapers broadcast that the president had
committed suicide at 11 p.m. the night before.”
(4)  Maria entrou no quarto. O gato dormia no sofá. Tinham deixado um envelope sobre a mesa,
onde encontraria algum dinheiro.
“Mary entered the room. The cat was sleeping on the couch. Somebody had left on the
table an envelope in which she would find some cash.”
The “Reichenbach diagrams” of Figure 21.1 show the time relations just described: 8
394  Rodolfo Ilari, Maria Fátima Oliveira, and Renato Miguel Basso
1.2.  Time adjuncts
Portuguese, as most natural languages, has a large variety of time adjuncts: some of them
locate events on the time line, others measure durations and still others refer to repetitions
(quantifications over times or events) occurring within an interval. Adjuncts locating events
in time can identify either an ET or RT (for instance, in (3), “in the morning of August 25” is
the ET of “noticiaram” and the RT of “tinha‐se suicidado”).
As time adjuncts locate events in the past, present or future, much like tenses do, one
could ask which adjuncts can co‐occur with which tenses: mismatches as the one illustrated
in (6) below should be pervasive if any adjunct could occur with any tense. This is probably
avoided by some general restriction stating, for instance, that ET, as expressed by adjuncts,
should be temporally aligned to time as expressed by verbal tense—an adjunct denoting a
past ET, for example, would not be temporally aligned to present tense or future tense,
resulting in the mismatch shown in (6) (cf. Hornstein 1993).
(5)  Ontem João correu/corria.
“Yesterday John ran/was running.”
(6)  *Ontem João corre/vai correr/correrá.
“Yesterday John runs/is going to run/will run.”
Nevertheless, some mismatches do occur, as in (7) and (8) below, yielding the constructions
known respectively as “presente histórico” (historical present) and “presente futuro” (i.e.,
­
present tense talking about future events). In these cases, language takes advantage of a mismatch
to yield new meaning effects.9
(7)  Em 1808, o rei de Portugal muda‐se com a corte para o Brasil.
“In 1808, the king of Portugal moves with his court to Brazil.”
(a) Present (b) Past (c) Future
ST = ET ET ST ST ET
(d) Pluperfect (e) Conditional = “futuro do pretérito”
ET ST ST
RT, ET ST
Possible locations
of ET
(f) Imperfect
RT RT
Figure 21.1  “Reichenbach diagrams” showing time relations.
Tense and Aspect: A Survey  395
(8)  (a)  EP/BP
Viajo amanhã para Lisboa.
“I am leaving tomorrow for Lisbon.”
(b) BP/*EP
Estou viajando amanhã para Lisboa.
“I am leaving tomorrow for Lisbon.”
1.3.  Time auxiliaries
While the present participle is no longer productive in Portuguese,10
an infinitive, a gerund
or a past participle can be derived from any verbal stem. Although these forms are excep-
tional as main verbs of independent sentences,11
they are important because of the compound
tenses they produce in association with (semi‐) auxiliaries estar, ter, haver, 12
ir, acabar de,13
ficar,
etc., as exemplified in (9)–(11):
(9) Quando me aposentei, (já) tinha/havia viajado muito.
“When I retired, I had (already) traveled a lot.”
(10)  Quando me aposentar, vou viajar muito.
“When I retire, I will travel a lot.”
(11) Acabo de ler o relatório.
“I have just finished reading the report.”
Ter, ir and acabar de are time operators in sentences like (9)–(11) because they trigger the
­following calculus:
(a)  Look for the event time that would apply to the tense of the auxiliary;
(b)  Consider it as the reference time for the compound tense (auxiliary + main verb);
(c)  Place the ET of the compound tense:
(i)	 earlier than RT for “ter, haver + past participle”;
(ii)	 after RT for “ir + infinitive”;
(iii)	 in a previous and recent time vis‐à‐vis the RT for “acabar de + infinitive.”
For instance, in (9) above:
•	 by (a) the ET for imperfect tinha (“had”, imperfect), taken in isolation, would be “earlier
than ST”;
•	 by (b) the compound tense will have a RT earlier than ST (RT is the event of the speaker’s
retiring);
•	 by (c.i) the ET of the compound verb will be earlier than RT, that is, the speaker’s travels
happen before his/her retirement.
Notice that this calculus doesn’t apply to Portuguese PPC (see Section 2.2.3 below).
2. Aspect
“Aspect” as a general term covers a set of related facts, rather than a single well delimited
phenomenon. For this reason, instead of starting this section by a strict definition, we comment
on two intuitions usually found in its treatments: (a) aspect is a “way of looking into” predicates;
(b) aspect operates inside predicate structure.
396  Rodolfo Ilari, Maria Fátima Oliveira, and Renato Miguel Basso
In order to illustrate the first perspective we refer to a well‐known fact: Portuguese has
two copular verbs that occur in the same environments but have different meanings. This is
shown in (12)–(14):
(12)  BP
Você é bobo/EP
Tu és parvo.
“You are foolish.”
(13)  BP
Você está bobo hoje/EP
Tu estás parvo hoje.
“You are foolish today.”
(14)  EP
Você está sendo bobo/EP
Tu estás a ser parvo.
“You are being foolish.”
As most sentences used for calling names, (12) represents stupidity as an individual level
property of the hearer; in (13), stupidity is a stage level property; (14) refers to a particular
occurrence of stupidity (again a stage level property)—the addressee is said to be acting
foolishly on the particular occasion reported in (14). In these sentences, ser, estar and estar
sendo encode alternative ways of looking at the same property, and this is essentially
what aspect does. Taking advantage from the etymology of the word aspect itself, which
contains the same root as Latin spectare “look at,” and English perspective (Castilho 1968:
14, 2000: 17), we can define aspect as the set of perspectives that can be applied to a
predicate.
As for the point of view in (b) above, we may assume that “perspectivizing a predicate” is an
operation affecting its internal time structure. If we adopt this view, we must conclude that the
research on aspect for a particular language is committed to establishing a complete inventory,
for that language, of the ways of operating on the internal time structure of predicates.
Notice that although some notion of time is needed to understand the semantics of
aspect (time intervenes indirectly in the distinction between stage level and individual
level predicates) this notion is not the same as we used in 1.1. to “locate events in time.”
Location of events in time is always relative to ST or to some RT provided by context. No
such dependency holds for aspect. This is why some authors say that linguistic time is
deictic (or anaphoric) while aspect is not (see Castilho 2010: 418).
2.1.  Aspect vs. aspectual calculus: verbs
and action classes
We have assumed that aspect is a property of sentences, worked out through a compositional
calculus involving several factors. The present section will describe some of these factors and
how they interact in the aspectual calculus.
Verbs are a crucial ingredient of aspectual calculus, due to the information given by
their morphology (see 2.3.4), and to the lexical information they carry. In order to deal
with the latter, it has been usual since Vendler (1967)14
to sort verbs into “action classes.”
According to Oliveira (2006), five such classes are needed for Portuguese, namely processes,
culminating processes, culminations, points and states. These classes are based on linguistic
criteria, such as compatibility with specific kinds of adjuncts and entailment patterns, and
are themselves the result of combining five underlying features: ±dynamic, ±telic, ±dura-
tive, ±capable of bringing about a new state, ±homogeneous. For ease of exposition, we
give the scheme by means of which Oliveira (2006) associates classes to the underlying
aspectual features in Table 21.1; then, we comment a few examples of each class, pointing
to their distinctive properties.
Tense and Aspect: A Survey  397
(i)   As an example of a state, consider the following sentence:
(15)  Lisboa é a capital de Portugal.
“Lisbon is the capital of Portugal.”
The property of being the capital of a country can hold for centuries, and is coded linguisti-
cally as lasting indefinitely (that’s why ser rather than estar was used as the copula in (15)).
No result is expected or triggered, and any subpart of Lisbon’s being the capital is still a
part of Lisbon’s being the capital (this is “homogeneity”). Questions that can be asked
about (15) are “Desde quando?” “Há quanto tempo?” (“Since when…?”, “For how long?”);
a pointless question would be “*Em quanto tempo?” (“How long did it take to…?”).
(ii)  A good example of a process is nadar “to swim,” as in (16):
(16)  A Maria nadou.
“Mary swam/has swum.”
Swimming is a time‐consuming activity, and no result is coded by the verb nadar as a
part of this activity (atelicity); moreover, each subpart of a swimming activity is still
swimming (homogeneity). Good questions to be asked for (16) are about duration,
such as “Por quanto tempo?”(“For how long?”); pointless questions are, for instance, the
ones about the amount of time required for accomplishing the event, for example “*Em
quanto tempo ela nadou?” (“*In how much time did she swim?”).
(iii)  Culminating processes can be illustrated by (17):
(17)  A Maria cozinhou o bolo.
“Mary baked/has baked the cake.”
Baking a cake involves dynamism, takes some time, and yields a result (telicity) after a
“preparatory” stage; preparation and result are different in nature, which precludes
homogeneity. Questions to be asked about Mary’s baking the cake are “Em quanto
tempo?” or “Quanto tempo levou para…?” (literally, “In how much time?”, “How long
did it take for…?”).
(iv)  The predicates in (18) exemplify culminations:
(18)  PE
ganhar/PB
tirar a sorte grande na loteria (“to win the big prize in the lottery”)
PE
encontrar/PB
achar as chaves (“to find the keys”)
Cruzar a linha de chegada (“to cross the finish line”)
Winning the lottery takes just a moment, and brings about a new state—the winner
becomes rich(er). For winning, some conditions must be fulfilled (for instance buying
the right ticket), but they are not coded as a part of the meaning of tirar/ganhar a sorte
grande; in other words, we talk about winning independently from its preparation, and
Table 21.1  Temporal schemata for Portuguese predicates.
Dynamic Telic Durative Resulting state Homo‐geneous
States – – – – +
Processes + – + – +
Culminating Processes + + + + –
Culminations + + – + –
Points – (–) – – –
398  Rodolfo Ilari, Maria Fátima Oliveira, and Renato Miguel Basso
this distinguishes culminations from culminating processes. Good questions about
such processes aim at identifying the moment the culmination happened, like “Quando
(exatamente)?” (“When (exactly)?”); questions about the duration of the process, or of
the resulting state would be senseless; e.g. “Por quanto tempo?” (“For how long?”).
(v)  
Finally, Oliveira (2006) calls points those momentary events that don’t bring about a
new state, such as the one described in (19).
(19)  A Maria espirrou.
“Mary sneezed.”
The questions to be asked about points are similar to the ones about culminations, with the
exception of those relating to the result of the event—since there are no results for “points.”
2.2.  Further ingredients of the aspectual calculus
2.2.1.  Object NPs
The information given by the root of the verb can change when the predicate contains other
constituents, and indeed, in sentences (20a)–(20d) below the culminating verb vender, “to
sell,” is turned into an atelic predicate by associating with vinho, azeite/casas (“wine, oil,
houses”), or with semi‐auxiliary tentar, “to try.” (In these examples, we have included
adjuncts as an evidence for classifying the predicates into the action classes described in 2.2.).
(20)  a.  O João *vendeu uma casa BP
por/EP
durante cinco anos.
“João sold a house for five years.”
b. O João vendeu uma casa em dois meses.
“João sold a house in two months.”
c. O João vendeu vinho/azeite/casas BP
por/EP
durante cinco anos.
“João sold wine/oil/houses for five years.”
d. O João tentou vender sua casa durante cinco anos.
“João sold houses/tried to sell his house for five years.”
Many of the phenomena occurring in this area are found cross‐linguistically, and were
mapped during the last decades (see, for example, Comrie 1976). As for nominal quantifica-
tion, it is now well established that bare plurals and mass nouns in object position of telic
verbs yield atelic predicates, while singular count nouns and determined plurals preserve
the telic nature of the verb (Basso 2007, 2011; Santos 1996).
2.2.2. Adjuncts
Further action class shifts can be triggered by other sentential components, such as adjuncts/adver-
bials, auxiliaries, and tenses. For instance, a (non-culminating) process verb like caminhar (“to walk”)
yields a culminating process in caminhar até à estação (“to walk to the station”), as is confirmed in
(21 a–d) by the (un)acceptability of the adjuncts em/por quatro horas (“in/for four hours”):
(21) a.  João caminhou por quatro horas.
“João walked for four hours.”
b. *João caminhou em quatro horas.
“João walked in four hours.”
c. *João caminhou BP
até a/EP
até à estação por quatro horas.
“João walked to/until the station for four hours.”
d. João caminhou até a/até à estação em quatro horas.
“João walked to/until the station in four hours.”
Tense and Aspect: A Survey  399
In principle, not any adjunct is suitable for any action class, and one could expect—once
again—that mismatches would be avoided. However, again this expectation is not fulfilled:
Portuguese makes an extensive use of adjuncts that, in principle, would be in contrast with
the action class of the verb, as a device to create new meanings without “inflating” the
lexicon. This is seen, for instance, in (22)–(23):
(22)  a.  A criança dormiu BP
por/EP
durante oito horas.
“The child slept eight hours.”
b. BP
A criança dormiu às oito horas.
Literally: “The child slept at eight.”
meaning “The child fell asleep at eight.”
(23) O João saiu por./.durante duas horas.
Literally: “John went out for two hours.”
As dormir (“to sleep”) is an atelic process, a natural question about dormiu would be “for
how long?”, and this question would get a well‐behaved answer in (22a). The time loca-
tion adjunct às oito horas (“at eight o’ clock”) would seem to be incompatible for this sort
of predicate, but (22b) is a fully acceptable BP sentence15
which focuses on the starting
point of the process, instead of the process as a whole: dormir is then interpreted as its
“inchoative” cognate, adormecer (“Fall asleep,” cf. Italian dormire vs. addormentarsi). In
(23), another “clashing” adjunct, por duas horas (“for two hours”) measures the duration
of the state that results from João’s going out. Finally, consider one more example,
(24) below:
(24) A criança tossiu por meia hora/a noite toda.
“The child coughed for half an hour/all night long.”
It could seem a transgression to apply a duration adjunct to a punctual verb like tossir (“to
cough”); but this “transgression” yields the reading that the child coughed over and over
during the night. This is not exceptional: point verbs, when they are associated with a dura-
tion adjunct, yield iterative readings.16
2.2.3. Auxiliaries
The PPC (again, pretérito perfeito composto, lit. “compound perfect past”) and the meaning of
ser and estar in copular sentences have long been identified as major semantic puzzles in
Portuguese. Both are aspectual in nature.
(a)  Tenho dito, tenho feito: The Portuguese PPC
As most Romance languages, Portuguese has a Latin‐inherited simple past and a Romance‐
born compound past. Benveniste (1959) explained away this “redundancy” for French by
associating the choice between je chantai vs. j’ ai chanté to the relevance of the reported events
at speech time: according to his explanation, French speakers employ the compound past
for events with which they are still concerned and the simple past for unconcerning events.
In Portuguese, this division of labor does not exist. All past events are referred to by means
of the simple past, irrespective of their being recent or remote, and highly or poorly relevant
at ST, so that a sentence like “Perdi a carteira” can be part of very different texts, such as (25)
and (26):
(25) Meu Deus! Perdi a carteira. E agora?
“Gosh! I’ve lost my wallet! What can I do now?”
400  Rodolfo Ilari, Maria Fátima Oliveira, and Renato Miguel Basso
(26) Perdi a carteira pela primeira vez há quarenta anos.
“I lost my wallet for the first time forty years ago.”
Moreover, and more important, the PPC conveys an idea of repetition, so that tenho perdido
a chave (literally: “I have lost my key”) never reports a single episode.17
But this is just one of
the vagaries of the PPC. (27)–(36) illustrate more conditions under which it is used:
(27) Abra, rápido, o carteiro já tocou/*tem tocado a campainha três vezes.
“Go and open the door quickly, the mailman has already rung the doorbell three times.”
(28) O José visitou‐nos/*Tem nos visitado ontem.
“José visited us yesterday.”
(29) O José viaja muito. Tem estado muito em Paris.
“José travels a lot. He has been (often) to Paris.”
(30) Desde que o pai adoeceu, o médico nos visitou/*tem‐nos visitado 9 vezes ao todo.
“Since our father got sick, the doctor visited us nine times in all.”
(31) Desde que o pai adoeceu, o médico tem‐nos visitado/nos visita três vezes por semana.
“After Dad got ill, the doctor has been visiting us three times a week/visits us three
times a week.”
(32)  Durante a última copa os torcedores *têm usado/usaram o metrô como transporte.
“During the last soccer cup, the fans have used/used the subway for
transportation.”
(33) Muitos imigrantes têm vindo ultimamente do Haiti.
“Many immigrants have come lately from Haiti.”
(34) A Maria morreu/*tem morrido ontem.
“Maria died/has died yesterday.”
(35) Morremos/temos morrido de medo sempre que ouvimos as sirenes da polícia.
“We are/have been scared to death every time we hear the police sirens.”
(36) Muitas pessoas têm morrido todos os dias no trânsito de S. Paulo.
“Many people have died every day in São Paulo’s traffic.”
Examples (27) and (28) show that the PPC is not a “recent past”; (29) and (32) show that
it refers to a period that is “still open” when the sentence is uttered (têm vindo is unaccept-
able in (32) precisely because the soccer cup is over). (34) and (35) are evidence that only
events that can be repeated can be rendered by the PPC:18
anyone can go several times
through the experience of morrer de medo (lit. “to die of fear,” meaning “to be scared to
death”), not so for morrer (“to die”). (36), where the predicate is also morrer, is acceptable
because the subject is plural (many people), allowing event repetition. (30) and (31) show that
numerals are not allowed in PPC ­
context. Our explanation for this phenomenon lies in the
aspectual operation carried out by this tense: the PPC creates a process built on an undeter-
mined number of repetitions (Oliveira and Leal 2012; Molsing 2010).19
Nevertheless, (31) is
acceptable and the reason is that the undetermined iteration is obtained by por semana
(“a week”) and not by três vezes, “three times.”
Tense and Aspect: A Survey  401
To conclude our discussion of the Portuguese PPC, we insist on two of its consequences:
(1) the PPC belongs to the paradigm of compound tenses morphologically but not semanti-
cally (the PPC is the only tense featuring ter that denotes repetition, its RT is a time span, not
a moment, and it obligatorily includes speech time); (2) it is not equivalent to its Romance
analogs.20
(b)  Esta casa está alugada/esta casa é alugada/Aluga‐se esta casa: ser/estar + past participle
In addition to the constructions where they occur with adjectives, ser and estar co‐occur
also with past participles (A ameaça está afastada, A confusão está formada, A casa é alugada
“The threat is removed, Havoc is established, The house is a rental house”) and with ger-
unds (A ameaça está sendo afastada, O calor está formando nuvens, Ainda estamos pagando a
casa, “The threat is being removed, The heat is forming clouds, We are still paying for the
house”).
Although it can be difficult to distinguish past participles from adjectives when they
occur with estar (many present day adjectives are ancient past participles) there is a good
aspectual reason for keeping apart the two constructions: when estar and a past participle are
joined into a predicate, this predicate is often intended to describe the result of a past action.
If so, estar + past participle conveys a twofold information: (1) a certain action was accom-
plished in the past, and (2) a state holds ever since. Indeed, (37)–(38) and (39)–(40) are
equivalent ways of announcing the end of a car wash or the clearance from a mortgage:
(37) Pronto, o carro está lavado. (“Here you go, the car is washed/the car is clean.”)
(38) Finalmente, a casa está paga. (“At last, the house is paid for.”)
(39) Pronto, lavei o carro. (Literally “Here you go, I’ve washed the car.”)
(40)  Finalmente, pagamos a casa. (“At last, we’ve paid for the house.”)
More research would be needed to establish how the different pieces of information (past
action and resulting state) given by (37) and (38) depend on the auxiliary and the past
participle, and whether they are parts of the core meaning of the construction, or some kind
of implicature. For now, suffice it to acknowledge that in (37)–(38) estar is once again associ-
ated with a stage level property. The stage level vs. individual level distinction can be applied
to past participles, as shown in (41)–(42), estar and ser apply to the same predicate (“alugar”):
(41) A casa que você achou bonita está alugada.
(Literally “The house you found nice is rented.” Meaning “Someone is renting the
house you’ve found nice.”)
(42) A casa que você achou bonita é alugada
(“The house you found nice is rented.” Meaning “The house you’ve found nice is a
rental house/for renting.”
Notice that, contrary to the opinion found in school grammars, it would be a mistake to
interpret (42) as the passive voice of Alugam a casa que você achou bonita. (Ali 1966; Duarte
and Oliveira 2010a, b). At least in Brazilian Portuguese, in order to express the passive
of alugar in the present, one should use the progressive form: ??A casa que você achou
bonita é alugada pelo João (“The house you found nice is rented by João”), but A casa que
você achou bonita está sendo alugada pelo João (“The house you found nice is being rented
by João”).
402  Rodolfo Ilari, Maria Fátima Oliveira, and Renato Miguel Basso
2.2.4. Tenses
The application of tenses to predicates of different action classes yields different results for
the acceptability and the interpretation of sentences. To illustrate this, consider the following
example:
(43)  Meu avô foi português de origem.
“My grandfather was of Portuguese descent.”
As having a Portuguese ancestry is a permanent property (therefore a state, according to
2.2.), the use of perfect foi triggers the implicature that the grandfather is dead at ST. No such
implicature would be expected with predicates such as foi até Macau or enriqueceu (“went as
far as Macau,” “grew rich”), which denote a process and a culminating event, respectively.
The point of these examples is that tense and aspect interact in a complex way, and only a
detailed analysis could account for them thoroughly.21
Keeping in mind this fact as a warning
against hasty generalizations, we claim that the two major aspectual alternatives coded by
tenses in Portuguese are semelfactivity vs. repetition and perfectivity vs. imperfectivity.
Semelfactivity, habituality and repetition
We consider repetition as an important grammatical option22
of Portuguese because some
Portuguese tenses that had originally a semelfactive meaning have acquired during the last
centuries an iterative or habitual one. We consider “semelfactive” events as the ones which
happen only once, such as João’s having lunch in a sentence like João está almoçando (agora)
(“João is having lunch (now)”); iteratives, habituals, and repetitions are opposed to semelfactives
because they involve more than one occurrence of an event. What we consider important to
notice in this section is that some verbs (and some tenses) can have a semelfactive interpre-
tation or an iterative/repetitive one depending on the sentential context.
Both a semelfactive and a repetitive meaning are available for some tenses (we say that
these tenses are neutral for this option), as is the case for the simple past: that is why (44),
uttered by the physician during a medical interview aimed at evaluating past habits of a
senior female patient, can get answers as different as (45) and (46):
(44) A senhora já fumou?
Literally “Did you already smoke?” Meaning either “Have you ever smoked?” or
“Were you ever a smoker?”
(45) Sim, já fumei e me embrulhou o estômago.
Literally “Yes, I have, and I felt sick.”
(46) Sim, fumei desde os 15 anos, até um ano atrás.
Literally “Yes, I’ve smoked from 15 years, until a year ago.” Meaning “Yes, I started
smoking when I was fifteen and I quit a year ago.”
Although they are both grammatically acceptable, (44) and (45) do not form a felicitous dia-
logue in the context described above, because the doctor is asking for habits, and by uttering
(45) the patient recalls an isolated experience; (44) and (46), on the other hand, would be a
good dialogue under the same circumstances. As we can see, depending on the sentential
context, the same verb and tense can be interpreted either as a semelfactive or as a repetition,
which can then result in a coherent or in an incoherent conversation.
Only a habitual23
reading is available for some other tenses, and this is the case for toma
“takes” in (47):
(47) João toma o trem para ir ao trabalho. (iterative/habitual)
“João takes the train to go to work.”
Tense and Aspect: A Survey  403
This verb describes a daily habit (it answers questions like Como é a rotina matinal do João?
“What is João’s morning routine?”), and this is no exception: semelfactive readings are very
rare for the indicative present and imperfect in modern Portuguese,24
as the expression of
semelfactivity was taken over gradually in EP by the construction estar a + Infinitive, and in
BP by the construction estar + Gerund:
(48) EP
O João está a tomar o comboio para o trabalho. (semelfactive)
(49) BP
João está tomando o trem para o trabalho. (semelfactive)
“João is boarding the train to his working place.”25
Perfectivity vs. imperfectivity
The main aspectual difference correlated to tenses, in Portuguese as well as in many other
languages, is imperfective vs. perfective. Among the tenses of Indicative, present, imperfect
and future are imperfective; perfect and most compound tenses are perfective; and the PPC
has a special status.
As should be expected, the opposition “perfective vs. imperfective” is best illustrated by
comparing sentences with “imperfect” and “perfect” past tense. Take for instance (50)–(53),
where the imperfects are underlined and the perfects are double underlined.
(50) Quando João voltou ao Rio, no lugar da antiga selaria havia uma lotérica.
“When John returned to Rio, in the place of the old saddler there was a Lotto retailer.”
(51) Enquanto a televisão transmitia as notícias, faltou a luz.
“While the TV broadcast the news, the light went off.”
(52) ??Quando João voltava ao Rio, no lugar da antiga selaria houve uma lotérica.
“When John returned to Rio, in the place of the old saddler there was a Lotto retailer”
(53)  ?Enquanto a televisão transmitiu o noticiário, faltava a luz.
“While the TV broadcast the news, the light went off.”
While (50) and (51) are acceptable, (52) and (53), where the tenses were reversed, are awk-
ward (or maybe they tell different stories), showing that there is more to tenses than time
location. In (50), this extra meaning is that the saddler was there before and after John put his
feet back in Rio, and in (51), that the news broadcasting extended before and after the
electricity blackout. This is typically an aspectual difference, as the event is taken as a whole,
i.e., perfectively, in voltou and faltou a luz, but is seen at an intermediate stage (i.e. imperfec-
tive aspect) in havia and transmitia.
In a more intuitive but equivalent account of what distinguishes perfective and imper-
fective aspect, it has been said that perfective “packages” events, while imperfective
“unpackages” their internal temporal structure. For culminated processes, this means that
imperfects will locate event time in their preparation, with no guarantee that the culmina-
tion will be attained. By (54) below, where a chronological link is established between
João’s going to school (imperfective) and the beginning of the rain (perfective), we know
that the rain started while John was on his way to school, but we don’t know what hap-
pened next: maybe he kept walking and arrived in school (which is the culmination of ir
para a escola “go to school”), maybe he went back home. On the other hand, the only pos-
sible readings for (55) are (1) that John’s leaving for school and the beginning of the rain
were close in time, or (2) that it started raining and then he left for school. In both cases, the
two events are viewed as “packaged.”
404  Rodolfo Ilari, Maria Fátima Oliveira, and Renato Miguel Basso
(54) João estava indo/ia para a escola, quando começou a chover.
“João was going/went to school, when it started raining.”
(55) João foi para a escola quando começou a chover.
“João went to school when it started raining.”
As a last example of the “packaging” effect of perfective, consider (56) and (57):
(56) Meu avô tinha três esposas.
“My grandfather had (imperfect) three wives.”
(57)  Meu avô teve três esposas.
“My grandfather had (perfect) three wives.”
While (57) says that grandpa had three wives in all (maybe he married three times in his
lifetime), the reading expected for (56) is that at a certain moment of his life (to be
retrieved anaphorically from the context) he was married simultaneously to three dif-
ferent wives.26
3. Epilogue
Time and aspect entered Portuguese grammarians’ agenda at different moments: while time
was already a topic of the first Portuguese grammars (and their Latin models), aspect had to
wait until the late sixties of the twentieth century to be recognized as an independent research
area in Portuguese linguistics; during the last five decades, intensive research has been going
on in this area, both in Portugal and in Brazil. Many problems were detected and different
accounts were argued for.
In this chapter, we have claimed that, in order to work out the information that sentences
give about time and aspect, language users perform a calculus that starts from the action
properties of verbs/predicates and goes on by taking into account modifications due to the
nature and quantification of argument NPs, adjuncts, auxiliaries and tenses. We have focused
on time and aspect phenomena that can be considered basic, or typical, for Portuguese,
giving them an informal description. Having worked both on EP and BP, we can say that the
two main varieties of Portuguese are very close insofar as the expression of time and aspect
is concerned, but we have also noticed a few differences that could signal diverging
drifts.27
We hope this chapter will help our readers to map the area and the technical literature
written on it during the last decades.
Notes
1	 We call conditional the tense containing the morpheme –ria. This tense has in fact two main roles:
(1) talking about facts that depend on a condition (Eu mudaria para Londres se fosse rico, “I would
move to London if I were rich”), and (2) locating facts in a time viewed as future relative to some
moment in the past (Ele disse ontem que iria para Londres hoje, “He said yesterday he would leave for
London today”).
2	 This usage is found in EP newspapers and in EP/BP literature.
3	 Having lost its time value, the future tense survives nevertheless in modal usages. For BP, see Josane
Oliveira (2011), Silva (2011).
Tense and Aspect: A Survey  405
4	 By “gerund” we mean all the forms derived from a verbal stem by adding the ending –ndo, as in
cantando (“singing”), correndo (“running”), sorrindo (“smiling”). These forms occur in construc-
tions like Ele ganha a vida cantando, Vi um menino correndo, A menina estava sorrindo (“He makes a
living singing”, “I saw a boy running”, “The girl was smiling”).
5	 For different treatments of auxiliaries in EP and BP, see Oliveira, Cunha, and Gonçalves (2004) for
EP; Lobato (1973), Perini (2002: 155–163) and Ilari and Basso (2014: 77–86) for BP.
6	 This interpretation of the imperfect is quite common in EP (in sentences such as Eu agora tomava um
cafezinho, “I’d like to have a coffee now”).
7	 However, recent works on the semantics of tenses in conditional sentences do claim that tenses
preserve their time values in this context. See, for example, Kaufmann (2005) for English.
8	 In diagrams (a–f), ST, RT and ET stand for “speech time,” “reference time,” and “event time.”
These diagrams are based on Reichenbach (1947) but some of the intuitions on which they rely
were already in Barbosa (1802).
9	 For a different account of historical present, see Givón (1993: 167).
10	 Amante (“lover”), temente (“afraid of”) and BP
concluinte (“student in the last stage of a degree”) are
connected historically to amar (“to love”), temer (“to fear”) and concluir (“to conclude, to finish”),
but are no longer recognized as forms of these verbs. BP
Ficante (as in Ele não é meu namorado, é só
meu ficante, “He is not my boyfriend, he is just my casual date”) is obviously a noun, and newly
created verbs, like deletar (cf. English to delete) do not take –nte endings.
11	 Andando! Literally, “Marching!” can be used as an imperative.
12	 The view found in school grammars that ter and haver can be used indifferently in compound
tenses is incorrect, as compound tenses like hei feito, haverei feito and haveria feito are awkward both
in EP and BP.
13	 Acabar de can be used as an auxiliary in EP either with a temporal or an aspectual meaning. It is
temporal with predicates lacking an internal duration (Ele acaba de chegar means “He has just
arrived”), and aspectual with durative predicates (Ele acabou de ler o livro means “He has finished
reading the book”). In BP, two different auxiliaries, acabar and terminar account for these two
functions (Dascal, 1982).
14	 Most authors working on Portuguese aspect during the last decades of the past century were
strongly influenced by Vendler’s ideas and some of them tried to adapt to Portuguese the
classification he had proposed for English. Although Vendler’s ideas remain influential, a ten-
dency can be observed more recently to look for “Portuguese aspectual classifications” and for
phenomena that “subvert” Vendler’s classifications or introduce new subcategories (e.g. Santos,
1996; Cunha, 2013; Basso, 2007).
15	 Adormecer is mandatory in EP for this reading.
16	 A similar effect of repetition is obtained by associating point predicates with the progressive
periphrasis, estar + gerund in BP) and estar + a + infinitive in EP: A Mariazinha está BP
espirrando/EP
a espirrar describes a repetition of sneezings.
17	 EP has sentences like Quando a Ana voltar da Itália, já a Rita tem terminado a tese/tem deixado Lisboa
(“When Ana returns(future) from Italy, Rita has already finished writing her thesis/has already
left from Lisbon”), where the PPC has a strictly temporal reading. BP lacks this usage.
18	 Nevertheless, when combined with a state predicate, PPC conveys the information that this state
started in the past and is still true at ST.
19	 This explanation takes advantage of recent treatments of plural and event quantification and over-
rides older accounts based on the nature of what used to be called “plurality of events.” During the
first half of the twentieth century, a long‐lasting polemic on this subject opposed the partisans of
two competing accounts, based respectively on repetition (Viana 1903), and duration (Boléo 1937).
Ilari (2000) argued the PPC and duration adjuncts exert a similar role, insofar as their association
with non stative predicates triggers a repetition reading.
20	 The auxiliary of these constructions is ter, not haver, another point where Portuguese contrasts with
its Romance siblings. It is worth observing that in this respect the PPC differs from the compound
plus‐que‐perfect, which can be built with haver in formal register.
21	 An attempt at such an analysis is found in Oliveira (2013).
22	 Some researchers (e.g. Castilho, 1968 and Travaglia, 1981), noticed pairs of verbs such as saltar/
saltitar, beber/bebericar, where the longer form involves repetition of the action described by the
406  Rodolfo Ilari, Maria Fátima Oliveira, and Renato Miguel Basso
shorter one (saltar and saltitar refer respectively to a single “jump” and to a sequence of small
jumps; bebericar, as opposed to beber involves the idea of a repetition of small sips), and argued for
an aspectual explanation of this fact. We consider this a lexical phenomenon.
23	 We use “repetition” and “habit” as synonyms in this chapter.
24	 For eventive verbs in the indicative present, a semelfactive reading occurs only in some very
specific kinds of texts, such as performatives (Prometo vir (“I promise to come”)), or running com-
mentaries in sport matches.
25	 As far as EP is concerned, there is a clear distinction between habitual (46) and semelfactive (47);
in BP, (48), usually semelfactive, could as well describe a recently acquired or temporary habit, cf.
Esse homem está indo de trem para o trabalho por causa das obras da rodovia (“This man is going by train
to work, because or the works in the highway”).
26	 For more on perfective and imperfective, see Ilari and Basso (2014).
27	 For instance, BP makes a larger use of “clashing” adjuncts than EP, and several differences were
noticed in the meaning of (semi‐)auxiliaries.
References
Barbosa, J. S. (1802). Grammatica Philosophica.
Lisbon: Academia Real das Sciencias.
Basso, R. M. (2007). Telicidade e detelicização:
semântica e pragmática do domínio tempo‐
aspectual. Masters dissertation, Campinas.
http://www.bibliotecadigital.unicamp.br/,
accessed November 4, 2015.
Basso, R. M. (2011). Uma proposta para a
semântica dos adjuntos “em X tempo” e “por
X tempo.” Alfa, 55 (1), pp. 113–134.
Benveniste, É. (1959). Les relations de temps dans
le verbe français. In Problèmes de Linguistique
Générale. Paris: Gallimard, pp. 238–250.
Boléo, M. de P. (1937). O pretérito e o perfeito em
Português, em confronto com as outras línguas
românicas. Coimbra: Imprensa da
Universidade.
Castilho, A. T. (1968). Introdução ao Estudo do
Aspecto Verbal na Língua Portuguesa. Marília:
Faculdade de Filosofia, Ciência e Letras de
Marília.
Castilho, A. T. (2000). Problemas do aspecto
no Português falado no Brasil. In E. Gärtner,
C. Hundt, and A. Schönberger (eds.), Estudos
de Gramática Portuguesa, III. Frankfurt am
Main: TFM, pp. 17–46.
Castilho, A. T. (2010). Nova Gramática do Português
Brasileiro. São Paulo: Contexto.
Comrie, B. (1976). Aspect. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Cunha, L. F. (2013). Aspecto. In E. B. P. Raposo,
M. F. Bacelar do Nascimento, M. A. Coelho da
Mota, L. Segura, and A. Mendes (eds.),
Gramática do Português. Lisbon: Fundação
Calouste Gulbenkian, pp. 585–624.
Dascal, M. (1982). Comecemos a acabar de
começar? Prolegômenos para uma análise
semântica de algumas perífrases verbais
indicadoras de fase, em português. Cadernos de
Estudos Linguísticos, 3, pp. 123–186.
Duarte, I. and F. Oliveira (2010a). Particípios
resultativos. In A. Brito, F. Silva, I. Veloso, and
A. Fiéis (eds.), Textos selecionados do XXV
Encontro da APL, pp. 397–408.
Duarte, I. and F. Oliveira (2010b). Sobre
particípios e construções resultativas em
português. In P. Cano Lopez and S. Cortiñas
(eds.), Actas do XLIX Encontro Internacional de la
Sociedad Española de Lingüística (SEL),
disponível em CD, Seção Gramática, Santiago
de Compostela.
Givón, T. (1993). English Grammar, vol.1.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hornstein, N. (1993). As Time Goes By.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Ilari, R. (2000). Notas para a semântica do
passado composto em português. Actas do
Congresso Internacional organizado por motivo dos
20 anos de português no ensino superior.
Budapest: Eötvös Loránd University, pp.
224–247.
Ilari, R. and R. Basso (2014). O verbo. In R. Ilari
(ed.), Gramática do Português Culto Falado no
Brasil. São Paulo: Contexto.
Kaufmann, S. (2005). Conditional truth and
future reference. Journal of Semantics, 22 (3),
pp. 231–280.
Lobato, L. (1973). L’auxiliarité en langue
Portugaise. Ph.D. dissertation, Université de
Paris III.
Tense and Aspect: A Survey  407
Molsing, K. V. (2010). The present perfect: an
exercise in the study of events, plurality
and aspect. Ph.D. dissertation, Pontifícia
Universidade Católica do Rio Grande
do Sul.
Oliveira, F. (2006). Tempo e aspecto. In M. H.
Mateus, A. M. Brito, I. Duarte, I. Faria, S. Frota,
G. Matos, F. Oliveira, M. Vigário, and A. Villalva
(eds.), Gramática da língua portuguesa, 7th edn.
Lisbon: Caminho, pp. 127–178.
Oliveira, F. (2013). Tempo verbal. In E. B. P.
Raposo, M. F. Bacelar do Nascimento, M. A.
Coelho da Mota, L. Segura, and A. Mendes
(eds.), Gramática do Português. Lisbon:
Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian), pp. 510–556.
Oliveira, F., L. F. Cunha, and A. Gonçalves (2004).
Aspectual verbs in European and Brazilian
Portuguese. Journal of Portuguese Linguistics,
3 (1), pp. 141–173.
Oliveira, F. and A. Leal (2012). Sobre a iteração
do pretérito Perfeito Composto em Português
Europeu. Revista de Estudos Linguísticos da
Universidade do Porto, 7, pp. 65–88.
Oliveira, J. (2011). A expressão variável do futuro
verbal na escrita: Brasil e Portugal em
confronto. Revista da Abralin, special issue, 1,
pp. 367–383.
Perini, M. (2002). Modern Portuguese, a Reference
Grammar. New Haven, CT: Yale University
Press.
Reichenbach, H. (1947). Elements of Symbolic
Logic. New York: Free Press.
Santos, D. (1996). Uma classificação aspectual
portuguesa do português. Actas do XII Encontro
da Associação Portuguesa de Linguística, Braga,
October 1–3, 1996, pp. 299–315.
Silva, R. P. da (2011). Arepresentação do tempo
futuro em textos escritos: uma análise diacrônica.
Revista da Abralin, special issue, 1, pp. 395–429.
Travaglia, L. (1981). O aspecto verbal no português.
Uberlândia: Universidade Federal de Uberlândia.
Vendler, Zeno (1967), Linguistics in Philosophy.
Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.
Viana, A. R. G. (1903). Le Portugais: Phonétique et
Phonologie: Morphologie: Textes. Leipzig:
Teubner.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
“Hypotheticals, ‘imaginaries’, conditionals, the syntax of counterfactuality and contingency may
well be the generative centres of human speech”
(George Steiner, After Babel (1998), 226)
1.  This chapter
Mood and modality are closely intermingled and play a fundamental role in our lives: through
them we express knowledge, and beliefs, about the world, as well as desires, ­
conjectures, etc.
These are important tools for surviving, as Hockett (1960) stressed. Languages vary greatly
with respect to the ways they express the relations to the factual, the hypothetical, the coun­
terfactual. This is a vast territory. In this chapter, our aim is twofold: empirically, we want to
compare European Portuguese (EP) and Brazilian Portuguese (BP) with respect to mood and
modality and show some of their differences; and we want to show that the relevant prop­
erties of Portuguese can be insightfully discussed with the tools provided by possible world
semantics, in which semantic accounts of mood have appeared for different languages (cf. e.g.,
Farkas 1992, Portner 1993, Marques 2009, Giannakidou 2013).1
We begin with mood in Portuguese, that is, the verb inflectional category associated with
the expression of an attitude towards the proposition. Empirically, we will show that BP and
EP differ with respect to the complement of some evaluative expressions, and of fiction verbs
like imaginar (“to imagine”); moreover, we will show that the “future in the past” ( futuro do
pretérito in BP grammatical terminology, and condicional in EP terminology) do not have the
same interpretation in the two varieties. We also discuss why some tenses traditionally taken
to belong to the indicative mood seem problematic under this classification: the futuro do
pretérito/condicional itself, the pretérito imperfeito (“imperfect past”), and the futuro do presente
(“simple future”).
In Section 3 we apply Kratzer’s seminal proposals (2013) to Portuguese modal auxiliaries,
such as poder (“can”) and dever (“must”).2
Modals are quantifiers that relate an ordered modal
basis and a proposition. In this section we also discuss very briefly the contribution of the
pretérito imperfeito do indicativo (“indicative imperfect past”) to the interpretation of the modal
auxiliaries.
The imperfeito ties together mood and modality, the topic of Section 4, where we argue that
the imperfeito does belong to the indicative mood, although, in some cases, it seems to involve
Mood and Modality
Rui Marques and Roberta Pires
de Oliveira
22
Mood and Modality  409
counterfactuality. Concerning the main moods of Portuguese—the indicative and the
­
subjunctive—we argue that the selection among them is conditioned by the worlds that are
taken into consideration: the indicative requires that the proposition is true in every
­
considered possible world; and the denotation of a subjunctive proposition includes at least
one world in which the proposition is not true. We propose that the imperfeito and the futuro
do pretérito/condicional do not select for an ordering source, whereas other indicative tenses
select for “normality.” Moreover, we suggest that the difference between EP and BP with
respect to the combination of evaluative predicates and fiction verbs is due to different
­
constraints on the indicative: in EP the indicative imposes no restrictions concerning the
world of evaluation; in BP, some predicates suggest an association between the real world
and the indicative.
This chapter is just a glimpse into mood and modality in Portuguese. The hypotheses we
raise here surely need to be further investigated. Moreover, there is a lot to be studied that
we cannot but mention: imperatives, exclamatives, conditionals, and infinitive clauses,
­
constructions whose meaning and use also depend on the semantics of mood and modality.
2.  Mood in Portuguese
Not only there are no uniform criteria for the identification of moods in Portuguese in
­
traditional grammars, but their definition is often left unclear. The European Portuguese
grammatical terminology considers four moods: indicative, subjunctive, imperative, and
conditional. The Brazilian terminology understands that there are three: indicative, subjunc­
tive, and imperative. Usually, mood is said to indicate the speaker’s evaluation of the dictum,
of what is said; the evaluation might be one of certitude, doubt, supposition, ordering, etc.
This section concentrates on the subjunctive and the indicative, the best studied moods in
Portuguese. In particular, we show that the traditional view—according to which the indic­
ative expresses reality, and the subjunctive, non‐reality—is inadequate.
Traditional grammars consider the indicative the “default” mood, in opposition to the
subjunctive, which is considered the “marked” one. The subjunctive is often described as
the mood of subordination, for it occurs mainly in subordinated clauses.3
This suggests that
the subjunctive requires the scope of certain types of operators. Indeed, a large amount of
literature has been devoted to finding out what distinguishes the relevant contexts.
The first observation is that some predicates select either the indicative or the subjunctive,
exclusively, as in (1), whereas in other cases both moods are allowed—but with different
interpretations, as in (2):
(1)  a.  Nós sabemos que ela cant‐a   / *cant‐e.4
We know that she  sing‐prs.ind/*sing‐prs.subj
“We know that she sings.”
b. Nós queremos que ela  cant‐e / *cant‐a.
We want that she	 sing‐prs.subj / *sing‐prs.ind
“We want her to sing.”
(2)  Ele quer comprar uma casa que  tem     / tenh‐a    
canil.
he wants to‐buy a house that  have.prs.ind / have‐prs.subj kennel
“He wants to buy a house that has a kennel.”
The indicative in the relative clause in (2) is felicitous in a context where there is a certain house
with kennel which someone wants to buy. With the subjunctive, the sentence does not refer to
any particular house (only the non‐specific, de dicto, reading of “a house” is available).
410  Rui Marques and Roberta Pires de Oliveira
Syntactically, it is important to characterize the structures in which one but not the other
mood is grammatical—as in (1)—and those in which both moods are allowed, as in (2),
where the difference in meaning cannot be ignored. Semantically, one wants to have a better
understanding of what distinguishes the meaning of the subjunctive and the indicative
structures. Though in this chapter the focus is on the semantic side, it is a fact that meaning
is syntactically encoded in natural languages.
At the syntax–semantics interface, one may wonder whether the subjunctive and indic­
ative morphemes are semantic operators, contributing to the meaning of the sentence, or
whether they signal the presence of a certain semantic value in the context where they
occur, parallel to what is seen with negative polarity items, which do not convey negation,
but only occur in contexts with a certain semantic value. An intermediary position con­
siders that the subjunctive has a semantic value in cases where the substitution for the
indicative is grammatical, though with meaning change, as in (2); and the subjunctive is
empty of meaning in syntactic structures where it cannot be substituted for the indicative,
as in (1). However, it would be good to understand why one cannot use the subjunctive in
(1a), but may in (1b).
The literature on mood has also paid attention to the dimension of use. In the next sec­
tions, we summarize the main lines that were explored in order to explain the distribution of
the indicative and the subjunctive in Portuguese.
2.1.  The relation between mood and truth value
The hypothesis, widely explored in traditional grammars, that the opposition between
the subjunctive and the indicative is related to the opposition between realis and irrealis
explains a vast number of cases. However, it cannot account for the obligatoriness, in EP,
of the subjunctive in many kinds of sentences that describe facts: complement clauses of
factive‐emotive (or “evaluative”) predicates (3a); complement clauses of causatives (3b);
concessive clauses introduced by embora (“although”) (3c). (For BP, see Section 2.4 below.)
And it cannot account, in EP, for the mandatoriness of the indicative in clauses embedded
under verbs or other expressions that introduce a fictional context, such as sonhar
(“to dream”), fingir (“to pretend”), or fazer de conta (“to pretend”) (3d) (for BP, see 2.4
below, again):
(3)  a.  Lamento que ela  est‐eja	 desempregada.
regret that she  be‐prs.subj unemployed
“I regret that she is unemployed.”
b. O governo deixou que a situação       chega‐sse    
a este ponto.
The government allowed that the situation reach‐impf.subj at this point
“The government allowed that the situation reached this point.”
c. Embora ele   fo‐sse     um bom jogador, era raramente utilizado.
Although he was‐impf.subj a good player, was rarely used.
“Although he was a good player, he was rarely used.”
d. Sonhei que ele   ganh‐ou   o prémio Nobel.
dreamed that he win‐perf.ind the Nobel Prize.
“I dreamt that he won the Nobel Prize.”
The one‐to‐one correspondence between realis and indicative, and irrealis and subjunctive,
also faces difficulties to explain the possibility of the indicative in the antecedent of counter­
factual (4a) and hypothetical conditionals (4b):
Mood and Modality  411
(4)  a.  Se ele cheg‐a    dez minutos mais tarde, não encontrava      
a filha!
If he arrive‐prs.ind ten minutes more late, not    find‐impf.ind  the daughter.
“If he’d arrived ten minutes later, he wouldn’t have met his daughter.”
b. Se eu descubr‐o que eles me   enganar‐am,  bem podem fugir!
If I find‐prs.ind that they me cheat‐perf.ind, well can run.
“If I find out that they cheated me, they may well run away.”
Concerning fictional contexts, the selection of the indicative is accounted for if the concept of
realis is replaced by Farkas (1992)’s concept of extensional anchoring, or Giannakidou (1999)’s
concept of “relativized vericadility” (or “subjective (non)veridicality”). According to
Giannakidou’s concept, a sentence is veridical if it is taken to be true by someone in the ­
relevant
model (the dream model, in the case of complement clauses of dream; someone’s beliefs’ model,
in the case of complement clauses of think, etc.), independently of its truth value in the real
world. Giannakidou shows that in Modern Greek the subjunctive can only occur in non‐­
veridical contexts and, according to Farkas (1992), the same is true in Romanian. Fiction predi­
cates do not require the subjunctive because they are veridical. However, in Portuguese (as in
other Romance languages), non‐veridicality is not a sufficient condition for the selection of the
subjunctive, since this mood may occur in veridical contexts, as shown in (3a) to (3c) above.
2.2.  The relation between the mood and the illocutionary force
The functionalist tradition has explored the idea that the indicative mood occurs in assertive
utterances whereas the subjunctive is restricted to non‐assertive utterances (cf., e.g., Hooper
1975). Simplifying, the idea is that the indicative allows emphasis in the information expressed
by the sentence, ascribing to it more relevance than if the subjunctive is used. Such an analysis
explains the fact that with factive predicates such as lamentar (“to regret”) or ser (uma) pena
(“to be (a) pity”) the subjunctive is obligatory in EP, since the dependent clause is taken to
convey information that is already known by the listener—hence, contextually ­
presupposed.
But this approach cannot explain why in BP some of these predicates (e.g., ser (uma) pena / ser
bom; “to be a pity/to be good”) seem to preferably select the indicative: Que bom que está cho-
vendo (“how nice that it be.pres‐ind raining”) seems more natural in ­
colloquial BP than Que
bom que esteja chovendo (“how nice that it be.pres‐subj raining”). And, at least in some varieties
of BP, predicates like lamentar also seem to accept both forms: in such varieties, not only (3a)
is fine, but also Lamento que ela está desempregada “I regret that she be.pres.ind unemployed.”
Moreover, although a relation between indicative/subjunctive and assertion/non‐assertion is
widely observed in the literature, an issue this approach must face is that of defining “asser­
tion” (and similar terms, such as “affirmative utterance,” etc.), as Palmer 1986 observes.
In SpeechActs Theory (Austin 1962, Searle 1969), an utterance is assertive if the utterer’s goal
is to express his belief in the truth of the uttered proposition. But if the selection of the indicative
depends on the conveying a belief in the proposition, we meet basically the same problems
raised against the hypothesis that relates the selection of mood to the truth value attributed to
the sentence. Moreover, if we adopt Stalnaker’s (1979) concept of assertion, according to which
to assert an utterance is to introduce new information into the discourse, we also have prob­
lems, since an utterance in the subjunctive may introduce new information, as in (5):
(5)  A derrota da seleção   não imped‐iu
The defeat of‐the team not prevent‐perf.ind
que os adeptos festeja‐ssem     a noite toda.
that the fans  celebrate‐impf.subj the night all
“The team’s defeat didn’t prevent the fans celebrating all night long.”
412  Rui Marques and Roberta Pires de Oliveira
Sentence (5) may be uttered in a context where the fact that the fans celebrated all night is not
known. Moreover, it may also be the case that an indicative utterance does not introduce
new information into the discourse:
(6)  Já    sabíamos   que ele   era     candidato,
Already know‐perf.ind that he be.impf.ind candidate,
a novidade é que vai concorrer contra a própria mulher.
the novelty is that will compete against his own wife.
“We knew that he was a candidate, the news is that he will compete against his wife.”
One may relate assertion (or affirmative force) to the relevance one gives to the information
introduced by the utterance (Santos 2003). This may explain some cases where the speaker
has the option for the indicative or the subjunctive, with the corresponding difference in
meaning, as in (7a), and also cases in which the speaker uses the indicative to make the
information expressed by the sentence salient in contexts where the subjunctive is allegedly
obligatory, as in (7b). It is not the case, however, that the speaker always uses the indicative
when he wants to make the proposition expressed by the utterance salient, as in (8):
(7)  a.  Insisto em que ele  vem      
/ venh‐a.
(I) insist in that he  come.prs.ind / come.prs.subj
“I maintain that he will come.”
b. Ninguém me abriu a porta, embora eu   
sei     que ele estava em casa!5
Nobody me opened the door, although I know.prs.ind that he was.ind in house
“Nobody opened the door, although I knew he was home.”
(8) Espero que amanhã só   chov‐a / *chov‐e!
Hope that tomorrow only rain.prs.ind  / rain.prs.subj
“I hope it rains the whole day tomorrow.”
2.3.  The relation between mood and propositional attitudes
Another approach to mood distribution in Portuguese explores the idea that the indicative is
selected when the proposition is taken to be true and the attitude expressed with respect to
this proposition is epistemic or doxastic (i.e., an attitude of knowledge or belief); otherwise
the subjunctive being selected (cf. Marques 1995). In other words, the indicative is selected
when an attitude of knowledge or of positive belief towards the proposition is expressed,
and the subjunctive is the default mood, that occurs in all the other cases (i.e., cases in which
the proposition is not taken to be true, as in, e.g., complement clauses of “to doubt,” as well
as cases where the attitude towards the proposition is not epistemic or ­
doxastic, as in the
complement clauses of “to regret”).
This hypothesis explains why all non‐veridical verbs (in Giannakidou’s sense of non‐
veridicality) select the subjunctive, and why some veridical predicates are indicative rulers
and others subjunctive rulers: the ones that in EP select and in BP accept the subjunctive,
such as “to be good,” express an attitude of evaluation of the fact described by the subordi­
nated clause, while indicative rulers such as “to know” or “to discover” express an epistemic
attitude. Hence, the cases that were observed to be problematic for the idea that mood distri­
bution is related to the (acceptance) of the truth of the proposition are accounted for by this
hypothesis: the indicative does not merely signal that the proposition is taken to be true, it
signals that the attitude towards the proposition is of epistemic or doxastic nature, that is, of
knowledge or positive belief.
Mood and Modality  413
This approach to mood in Portuguese also accounts for the facts that are problematic for
the (non)assertion approach, since it grounds mood selection on the meaning of the
construction, not on the communicative intention. This is compatible with the observation
that the indicative is the only mood allowed in simple declarative clauses like O homem
chegou à lua (“Mankind has reached the moon”), which can obviously be assertions, ­
whatever
the concept of assertion one has. By asserting the sentence, the speaker expresses his belief
that the sentence is true; the attitude expressed towards the proposition is of doxastic nature,
hence the selection of the indicative.
However, the idea that the indicative is related to the expression of an attitude of
knowledge or (positive) belief is problematic if we take into consideration the sentences
below: (9a) conveys a desire, not a state of knowledge or belief, and the verb carries
­
morphology corresponding to the indicative imperfect past; (9b) shows that the futuro do
indicativo (“indicative future”) may express uncertainty (hence, (9b) does not allow the infer­
ence that “the population is around 3 million” is true); and (9c) shows the same with respect
to the futuro do pretérito/condicional:
(9)  a.  Por mim, João casa‐va     
e  fica‐va     tudo bem.
For me, João marry‐impf.ind and become‐impf.ind everything fine
“For me, João could marry and everything would be fine.”
b. Atualmente, a população   será      
(talvez) de uns três milhões.
Nowadays, the population be.cond/fut.ind (perhaps) of some three millions
“Nowadays, the population will be (perhaps) around three millions.”
c. O presidente esta‐ria     (supostamente)  a preparar um documento.
the president be‐fut.pret.ind (supposedly)  at preparing a document.
“The president would be preparing a document.”
We come back to this issue in Section 4. In the next subsection, we compare BP and EP.
2.4.  Variation in mood in EP and in BP
In most contexts, European and Brazilian Portuguese do not show differences regarding the
selection of mood. However, there are cases where they contrast. These differences are found
mainly in complement clauses, and in a particular kind of main clause. Concerning
complement clauses, in some the selection of the subjunctive is obligatory in EP, but in BP the
indicative might occur, as with some evaluative predicates, such as ser bom / ser pena (“to be
good”/“to be a pity”), as in (10). In other complement clauses, the opposite situation obtains:
the indicative is obligatory in EP, while in BP the subjunctive may occur, as in complement
clauses of fiction verbs, like imaginar (“to imagine”), as in (11):6
(10)  a.  Que pena que ela  
est‐eja   
desempregada.(BP/EP)
he regrets that she be‐prs.subj unemployed
“He regrets that she is unemployed.”
b. Que pena que ela  
está    desempregada.(BP/*EP)
he regrets that she be.prs.ind unemployed
“He regrets that she is unemployed.”
(11) a. Imagine que todos os computadores deixa‐ssem   
de funcionar.(BP/*EP)
Imagine that all the computers  stop‐impf.subj of functioning.
b. Imagine que todos os computadores deixa‐vam   
de funcionar. (BP/EP)
Imagine that all the computers  stop‐ impf.ind of functioning
“Imagine that all the computers stopped functioning.”
414  Rui Marques and Roberta Pires de Oliveira
These facts suggest that mood distribution in BP is more sensitive to the actual/non‐actual
or realis/irrealis distinction than in EP. In EP the indicative is selected if the sentence is taken
to be true in the relevant model, otherwise the subjunctive is selected; in BP the indicative
might be selected if the state of affairs described by the sentence is verified in the actual
world; if it is verified in some possible world, but not necessarily in the actual world, the
subjunctive is preferred: (11a) seems better than (11b).
The interpretation of the condicional (“conditional,” European grammatical terminology)
or the futuro do pretérito (“future in the past,” Brazilian terminology) with a purely modal
value is another difference between between the two varieties of Portuguese. In sentences
like (12), where the embedded proposition expresses uncertainty on the part of the speaker,
the futuro do pretérito/condicional is acceptable in BP, but not in EP:
(12)  Os dados que recolhi sugerem que o livro ter‐ia
the data that I collected suggest that the book have‐cond/fut.pret.ind
sido     escrito antes de 1500. (BP/*EP)
be.past.part  written before 1500
“The data that I collected suggest that the book will have been written before 1500.”
A proposal to account for these differences is the topic of Section 4. In the next section, we
turn to modality.
3.  Modals in Portuguese
Aristotle was the first to relate modality to the truth value of propositions. His interest was
the “alethic” modality, which expresses logical necessity or possibility:
(13)  Necessariamente, Platão saiu ou Platão não saiu.
“Necessarily, either Plato left or Plato didn’t leave.”
(13) is a tautology. The truth of the disjunction requires that at least one of the sentences is
true. Since there are only two possibilities with respect to Plato’s having left—either he did
or he didn’t—the coordination is necessarily a true sentence.
However, necessity and possibility are relevant in other domains, which are not regulated
by the same deductive rules. Consider the sentences in (14):
(14)  a.  Obrigatoriamente, Platão está preso.
“Obligatorily, Plato is in jail.”
b. Platão está preso.
“Plato is in jail.”
In the domain of the laws and regulations, the deontic domain, the inference of (14b) from
(14a) is not valid. (14a) establishes what the law states, according to which Plato is arrested,
but the actual world may not conform to the law. Imagine that according to the laws, anyone
who stole something is arrested. Suppose that Plato has stolen something. This fact together
with the set of laws does not warrant that Plato is arrested. Indeed, in reality not all cases of
robbery end with the burglar in prison. The actual world is not a perfect moral world. (13)
and (14) exemplify different “shades” of modality.
Mood and Modality  415
3.1.  Shades of modality
There is no consensus on what the types of modality are, nor on how to account for those that
have been established. Classically, one finds the distinction between alethic, epistemic, and
deontic modalities. Epistemic modality is associated with knowledge; deontic modality with
laws and regulations, obligation and permission; and alethic modality with logical necessity/
possibility. However, the literature also refers to doxastic modality, frequently associated
with epistemic modality, since it deals with beliefs; volitional (or bouletic) modality, associ­
ated with desires; evaluative modality, which expresses evaluation of facts; and teleological
modality, which has to do with aims and goals. Mainly in the syntactic literature, one finds
the distinction between epistemic and root modalities, where epistemic covers knowledge
and beliefs, and root designates all the other types of modality: deontic, volitional, etc. The
syntactic distinction relies on important properties of the items that express modality in
natural languages, such as adverbs and auxiliaries. Let us illustrate this with the auxiliaries
dever (“must”) and poder (“can”):
(15) Ele deve poder sair.
he must.prs.ind to can to leave
“He must be able to leave.”
(15) cannot but be interpreted as follows: it is probably the case that he has permission (or the
capacity) to leave. The finite modal cannot be interpreted as a deontic, it must be epistemic,
and the embedded modal, in the infinitive, must be non‐epistemic (expressing root modality,
which includes permission, capacity, among others). Thus, there are constraints on the
­
interpretation of modals: the deontic interpretation cannot prevail over the epistemic one.
Cinque (2006) explores this important finding in his hierarchy of functional categories,
and Hacquard (2006) in the interpretation of Kratzer’s distinction between epistemic and
circumstantial modal bases.
3.2.  Expressing modality in Portuguese
There are several linguistic means of expressing modality. Indeed, a cross‐linguistic inventory
of all these possibilities is one of the aims in this area of study. In Portuguese, modality can
be expressed via modal auxiliaries—poder (“can”), dever (“must”), ter de/que (“to have to”);
Oliveira and Mendes (2013) also mention haver de (also “to have to”) and ser capaz de (“to be
able to”)—, and plain verbs—saber (“to know”) and crer (“to believe”) —are full verbs that
express the epistemic and the doxastic modality, respectively. If modality covers also the
expression of propositional attitudes, then querer (“to want”) and esperar (“to expect, to
hope”) are associated with volitional modality; and verbs like lamentar (“to regret”) and apre-
ciar (“to appreciate”) express evaluative modality. Other lexical classes may express modality:
nouns (certeza “certainty,” possibilidade “possibility”), adjectives (obrigatório “obligatory,” pos-
sível “possible”), adverbs (talvez “maybe,” possivelmente “possibly,” certamente “certainly”).
Morphologically, there are sufixes with modal value, like –vel in lavável (“washable”) and
louvável (“laudable”) (see Costa Moreira 2014). (9b) above shows that the futuro do indicativo
(“indicative future”) expresses a high probability but not certainty (the so‐called “epistemic
future”); thus, verbal tenses may have modal values. The presente do indicativo (“indicative
present”) in (16) expresses an ability/capacity, hence a modality:
(16) Esse carro faz 200 km/h.
“This car does 200 km/h.”
416  Rui Marques and Roberta Pires de Oliveira
Syntactically, several phrases show modal values: com certeza (“for sure”), o mais provável
(“the most probable”), etc. Infinite phrases may also have a modal meaning, as in (17) below,
which might convey the same meaning as “there are mountains that we need to climb and
rivers that we must cross”:7
(17) Há montanhas a subir e rios a atravessar.
“There are mountains to climb and rivers to cross.”
If modality conveys an attitude towards a proposition, then intonation may also be a means
of expressing it.8
Most of the contemporary research on modality concentrates on modal verbs / ­auxiliaries,
which are the topic of the next section.
3.3.  Modal verbs/auxiliaries in Portuguese
Syntactically, auxiliaries do not c‐select categories other than VPs (and their extended
projections). This property seems to be tied to the type of modality the modal expresses.
Although epistemic poder does not seem to select for the external argument, the deontic one
seems to select for an agent; (18) does not convey that the stone has permission to fall:9
(18) A pedra pode cair. Epistemic/*Deontic.
“The stone may fall.”
Pontes (1973) distinguishes three verbs poder (“may/can/is able to”): permission, possibility,
and capacity. According to her, only poder of possibility is an auxiliary. For other authors, all
modal verbs are auxiliaries (Miranda 1975). Finally, some authors see the issue of identifying
a class of “auxiliaries” in Portuguese more in terms of a “scale of auxiliarity” than in terms
of a categorical distinction “auxiliary” vs. “lexical verbs.” For example, Gonçalves (1992)
argues for such a position for EP verbs (cf. Mateus et al. 2003), claiming that modal verbs are
“semi‐auxiliaries” in this variety: they would have some properties of ­
auxiliaries, but not as
many as a prototypical auxiliary, such as the verb ter “to have” in “compound tenses” (e.g.,
the compound pluperfect in João tinha partido “John had left”). For a recent similar proposal
for modals in BP, see Rech (2011).
Semantically, according to Kratzer (2013), modal verbs are quantifiers that relate an
ordered modal base and the proposition expressed by the embedded sentence. In a very
intuitive and informal way, the modal base corresponds to the information—conceived as a
set of worlds—that the speaker relies on to assert the modalized sentence. For example, (18)
expresses that there is at least one among the relevant worlds—those compatible with the
epistemic base of (18), that is, with what is known about the situation in which (18) is
uttered—in which the stone falls.
The modal base of an utterance (the relevant body of information relative to which the
truth of the utterance is evaluated) may be explicitly given, as in (19) below, or it may be
recovered from the context, as in (20). (20) may have different interpretations precisely
because the modal base is not explicit: it may have an epistemic reading (“maybe / for sure,
she marries”), or a deontic one (“she is obliged to marry”). In (19), on the other hand, the
modal base is linguistically conveyed, and the only reading is epistemic (“it is likely that
she marries”):
(19) De acordo com o que se sabe, a Ana deve casar.
“According to what is known, Maria shall marry.”
Mood and Modality  417
(20) A Ana deve casar.
“Ana must marry.”
In Kratzer’s quantificational approach, the auxiliary lexically conveys the quantificational
force of the utterance: thus, poder (“may/can”) conveys existential force, that is, there is at
least one alternative which is compatible with the background; dever (“must”), on the other
hand, would express universal force, that is, that all alternatives verify the claim. If dever
expresses universal quantification, and if the modal basis is realistic, that is, it includes the
actual world, then both (19) and (20) entail (21):
(21) A Ana vai casar/casa‐rá.
“Ana will marry.”
But according to our intuitions, (19) and (20) may be true without it being the case that Ana
actually comes to marry. How do we account for our intuitions? Kratzer explains this
pattern of inference in natural languages by building an “ordered semantics”: the set of
worlds in the modal base are ordered according to some set of propositions, also provided
by the context, which establishes the “ideal” worlds—ideal according to the laws, or to
what is normal, or to the speaker’s desires, etc. The worlds in a modal base are ordered
according to the proximity to this ideal. Thus, (19) and (20) say that, according to what is
known, and taking into consideration the normal course of events, in all the normal worlds,
Ana will marry. It does not entail that she will actually marry in the actual world, because
the actual world may be not a normal world. Kratzer’s proposal also accounts for the fact
that modality is gradable: é pouco provável (“it is not very likely”), é bem possível (“it is highly
possible”), etc.
In sum, for Kratzer modality has three ingredients: the force (possibility, necessity), the
modal basis (the body of information—conceived as a set of worlds—against which the
proposition is interpreted), and the ordering source (the ordering of worlds concerning their
proximity to normality, or to what the law provides, etc). Modal force is the only information
that is carried by the modal verbs in Portuguese (poder “can” conveys possibility, ter de/que
“have to,” necessity); the other ingredients—the modal basis and the ordering relation—
come from other sources (e.g., by context, as in (20), or by compositional means, as in (19)).
This division of labor is not necessary for all languages. Rullmann, Matthewson, and Davis
(2008) show that in the Salishan languages, the force is contextually given, while the modal
basis is part of the lexical meaning.
3.4.  Tense, aspect and modality
The interaction of modal verbs with tense, aspect, and mood raises issues that can only be
mentioned here in passing. Condoravit (2002) distinguishes between the temporal perspec­
tive, which is the time when the body of information is taken into consideration, and the
time of the event. Consider (20): the temporal perspective is present, since the speaker is
invoking what is known at the speech time; but the time of the event is future, the event of
Ana’s marriage is after the speech time. With (22), the speaker conveys that, given the
information that he has at speech time—the temporal perspective—he believes that the event
denoted by the embedded sentence has happened—the compound form (ter casado, “have
married”) conveys that the time of the event is past:
(22) Ela deve ter casado.
she dever.prs.ind to have married.
“She must have married.”
418  Rui Marques and Roberta Pires de Oliveira
However, if deve is substituted for the imperfect past devia, an interpretation of desire pops
up, particularly if we add an exclamative contour:
(23) Ela devia     
ter casado.
she dever.impf.ind to have married
“She should have married.”
(23) is ambiguous: (i) Suppose that for all the speaker knows,Ana was planning her marriage,
but this is the most information that the speaker has; he is not sure whether she actually
­
married; in this case the temporal perspective is past (given the information that the speaker
had at some point in the past), and the time of the event is past with respect to the temporal
perspective; (ii) the speaker is not wondering about the event, since he knows what hap­
pened, the temporal perspective is present; he is rather commenting on something that he
takes for granted that has not happened (the person referred to in (23) did not marry). Thus,
the speaker knows what happened—she has not married—and is regretting the course of
events. Ana prepared herself to marry, everything was ready for the marriage, but it has not
happen (because she is too perfectionist and postponed it, or for any other reason).
The speaker is conjecturing about what is not the case, but could have happened—a counter­
factual reasoning. This counterfactual reading only happens with the imperfective.
The difference between indicative present and imperfect past also shows in the following
pair of sentences:
(24) a. O João deve     casar em março.      Epistemic/*Desire
the João dever.prs.ind to marry in March
“João will probably marry in March.”
b. O João devia      
casar em março.      ?? Epistemic/Desire
the João dever.impf.ind to‐marry in March.
“João should marry in March.”
In parallel with the readings available for (23) but not for (22), only (24b) can be used in two
scenarios: (i) one where we know that João married, but not in March (in which (24b) might
be followed by “but he did only in April”); or (ii) in a context, previous to March (say, (24b)
being uttered in January), where the speaker knows that João has not married yet and wishes
he does that in next March. (24a) can only be used in the context where one knows that João
has not married yet. In a context where the temporal perspective is the speech time, and the
event is future oriented, only the imperfect past conveys uncertainty, desire, etc.
Moreover, when the temporal perspective point is speech time, the imperfect is hardly
interpreted as expressing epistemic modality. Suppose the speaker is closed into a room
without windows, but he sees people arriving wet, with wet umbrellas. In such a situation,
the imperfective form is not felicitous:
(25) Deve     / #Dev‐ia estar chovendo.10
Dever.prs.ind/impf.ind to be raining.
The same contrasts and constraints appear with poder (“can”): only (26a) answers the
question “Do you believe there is water on Mars?”:
(26) a. Marte pode    ter água.
Mars poder.prs.ind to have water
b. Marte podia  ter água.
Mars poder.impf.ind to have water
“Mars may/could have water.”
Mood and Modality  419
With the present form, the speaker entertains the possibility that Mars has water, whereas
with the imperfect he may convey his desire that Mars has water.11
Other issues enter into the discussion if we consider the perfect past pôde (“was able to”):
(27) a. Ele pôde     
levantar a mesa.
he poder.perf.ind to lift the table.
b. Ele levantou  a mesa.
He lift.perf the table.
Hacquard (2006) argues that the French counterpart of pôde is a veridical operator, it entails
that the proposition under its scope is true. Does (27a) entail (27b)? We believe it does, but
we will not discuss this case here.
In the next section, we aim to shed some light on ways of integrating mood and modality.
In order to do this, we will argue that there is something in common between the modal
properties of the imperfect discussed in this section and our previous observations
about mood in Portuguese—and this is precisely what requires an integrated account of
mood and modality.
4.  Towards an integrated analysis of mood and modality
Over the last decades, an increasing amount of work in semantics has been devoted to
formal analyses of mood and modality in different languages. In this section, we briefly
outline how a treatment of mood and modality can be achieved within possible worlds
semantics. As seen above, Kratzer”s model allows for the description of the semantics of
modal operators, in particular modal verbs. Unsurprisingly, many of the concepts
designed to account for modals have also been used for the semantics of mood. In
particular, central to the formal analysis of both modality and mood is the notion of pos­
sible world (or possible situation, cf. Kratzer 2013).12
The analysis of the semantics of
modal verbs was sketched above. Other modal operators in Portuguese (such as modal
adverbs, epistemic adjuncts like com certeza, and so on) have not been studied with the
same depth. Our aim in Section 3 was to highlight the interaction between aspect, the
imperfeito, and modal verbs: it shows that the imperfect allows for desire interpretations,
and counterfactual readings.
As for mood, the hypothesis sketched in Section 2 was that in EP the indicative occurs
in veridical epistemic contexts. This hypothesis can be formalized along the following
lines (cf. Marques 2009): if only p‐worlds (i.e., worlds where the state of affairs described
by the proposition is verified) are considered, the indicative is selected; if at least one non
p‐world is taken into consideration, the subjunctive occurs. This explains why the indica­
tive is obligatorily selected by verbs that point to an entity’s knowledge or belief state and
why the subjunctive is selected by non‐veridical verbs (considering Giannakidou’s defini­
tion of veridicality). As for veridical verbs that select the subjunctive, namely, evaluative
predicates like lamentar (“to regret”) and causative predicates like fazer (“to make”),13
if one
accepts that their meaning involves counterfactual reasoning, then their meaning also
involves the consideration of non‐p worlds.
Heim (1992) defends the idea that evaluative predicates involve counterfactual reasoning.
She proposes that the meaning of “John regrets that it is raining” is, informally, the follow­
ing: it is raining and, for John, it would have been better if it were not raining. Conversely,
“John is glad that it is raining” means that it is raining and, for John, this is better than if it
420  Rui Marques and Roberta Pires de Oliveira
were not raining. As for causative predicates, the hypothesis that their meaning also involves
the consideration of non‐p worlds is supported by the assumption that the notion of ­causality
involves counterfactual reasoning, as defended by Salmon (1998). In simple terms, he pro­
poses that “Ice on the road caused the accident” means that if there were no ice on the road
(all the rest being equal to the actual world), the accident would not have happened. Given
that predicates like fazer “to make” involve causality, then accepting Salmon’s proposal
amounts to claim that such predicates also involve counterfactual reasoning (and, hence,
consideration of non p‐worlds).
As for BP, a large scale empirical survey is still in need. As far as we could detect, some
evaluative predicates like ser bom (“to be good”) preferably select the indicative like in other
languages cited above, lamentar (“to regret”) seems to combine with both moods, and fiction
verbs as imaginar (“to imagine”) accept the subjunctive. This data may suggest the tendency
to select the indicative if the proposition is presupposed, i.e. if it is taken to be true in the
actual world.
Now, we observe that (28), with the imperfect, is problematic for the hypothesis that the
indicative occurs in epistemic veridical environments:
(28) Por mim,  o João   casa‐va.
For me,  the João marry‐impf.ind
“In my opinion, João should marry.”
This sentence expresses a desire, not a belief. So its meaning is not that John gets (or has
got) married in every world compatible with what the speaker assumes; instead, it means
that John gets married in every desire‐world of the speaker. That is, (31) involves a
­
bouletic ordering source. Moreover, (28) may be felicitously asserted in a context where
João’s getting married is an available possibility, as well as in a context where it isn’t. As
seen above, the same effects appear when a modal verb is associated with the imperfect.
Given this, there are two choices. One is to assume that the indicative mood selects an
epistemic modal base and involves the consideration of only p‐worlds, and that the imper-
feito does not belong to the indicative. However, the syntactic criterion for the indicative is
the fact that the verbal form can be used in independent clauses without any (open) modal
operator. With respect to this criterion, the imperfect is an indicative tense. Thus, let’s assume
the second choice and stick to the idea that the indicative involves the consideration of only
p‐worlds, the distinction between the indicative and the subjunctive being that the latter
occurs in contexts where there is at least one non‐p world. Let’s also assume that the modal
basis in cases like (28) is epistemic, in the sense that it deals with empirical evidence, with a
body of information conversationally accessible. We can now account for this information
using the ordering source, as suggested by Kratzer. This line of reasoning would allow for
the imperfeito to be a tense of the indicative, but it requires that different tenses be specified
for the kind of ordering source they select. Most tenses of the indicative would require a nor­
mality ordering source; but the imperfeito would accept any kind of ordering. In (28) the
modal base would be epistemic and the ordering source bouletic. The information is con­
veyed that in all worlds (compatible with what is known) that conform to the speaker’s
desires, John gets married.
Similar considerations are relevant for the futuro do presente (“simple future”) and the
futuro do pretérito/condicional (“future in the past/conditional”). As seen above, in sentences
as (9b), the futuro do presente expresses uncertainty, and in BP the same value is expressed by
the futuro do pretérito/condicional, as shown by (12). These tenses may also have a reportative
reading, which also does not convey certainty on the part of the speaker:
Mood and Modality  421
(29) De acordo com o jornal, o assaltante     
ter‐ia /ter‐á
According to the newspaper, the burglar  have‐cond/fut.pret.ind /fut.ind
  usado explosivos.
  used explosives.
“According to the newspaper, the burglar would have used explosives.”
… mas eu não acredito / veremos se é verdade.
… “but I don’t believe / we shall see whether it is true.”
In either reading, they differ from other tenses of the indicative in the fact that they do not
convey that the proposition is verified in every world compatible with what is known (in
other words, they express some degree of doubt). Thus, one choice is, again, to claim that
they do not belong to the indicative mood. Another choice is to assume that they are tenses
of the indicative that select particular epistemic modal bases. In the reportative reading, the
modal base will be relativized to the source of information. In the “uncertainty” reading,
the modal base would be the set of worlds compatible with the partial information available
to the speaker, and, once again, we can keep the idea that the indicative involves the
consideration of only p‐worlds. The value of uncertainty associated with these tenses would
follow from the fact that the speaker is relying on partial information or, in the case of the
reportative reading, on information (or beliefs) that he might not share, but the ordering
source would still be normality.
The futuro do pretérito/condicional, just as the imperfeito, may also convey desire and
counterfactuality:
(30) Ele casa‐ria/cas‐ava    com ela, se fosse possível.
he marry‐cond/IMperf with her if it were possible
“He would marry her, if it were possible”
It is not surprising that these tenses are in variation. If these tenses are not marked for the
ordering source, they allow for different interpretations.
5.  Other issues to be explored
As speculative as the answers we provided may be, they were meant to highlight the intri­
cate relations between mood and modality, and the need for further investigation. But other
connected issues, which have not even been mentioned here, also require exploration. What
follows is obviously a non‐exhaustive inventory.
Imperatives should be better understood. Exclamative clauses in Portuguese have not
been semantically studied yet, as far as we know. The semantics of infinitive clauses in
Portuguese has been less explored than the semantics of finite clauses. In some cases, no
clear semantic difference is associated with the infinitive vs. a finite mood, although even in
such contexts, there may be still be subtle differences, as in (31):
(31) Isso não impediu [que a Ana saí‐sse] / [a Ana de sai‐r].
That not prevented [that the Ana leave‐imp.subj] / [Ana of leave‐inf]
“This didn’t stop Ana from leaving.”
The subjunctive form seems to convey that Ana has left, whereas the infinitive may imply
that she has left, but is also compatible with a situation where she could have left, though she
422  Rui Marques and Roberta Pires de Oliveira
did not. A semantic contrast between finite and infinitive clauses is stronger in temporal
clauses with até (“until”) or antes (“before”):
(32) Platão ficou na rua até  começa‐r  a chover / até que  
começa‐sse   
a chover.
Plato waited until   start‐inf at to‐rain / until that start‐impf.subj at to rain
“Plato waited until it started raining.”
(33) Platão entrou antes de  começa‐r a chover / que começa‐sse     a chover.
Plato entered before of start‐inf at to‐rain/ that start‐impf.subj at to‐rain
“Plato went in before it started raining / would start raining.”
Both in (32) as in (33), if the subjunctive is chosen, there is an inference that Plato expected
rain, while with the infinitive this information is not necessarily conveyed. By asserting the
sentences and choosing the infinitive, the speaker takes his/her own knowledge at speech
time and describes two situations temporally ordered. In contrast, by choosing the subjunc­
tive, the situations are presented following Plato’s perspective at the relevant time (when he
decided to stay out, in (32), and when he decided to go in, in (33)) (cf. Marques and Alves
2013 for constructions such as in (33)). Other constructions where the infinitive is an
alternative to a finite mood may also show similar semantic differences.
Conditional clauses in Portuguese are another topic that deserves further attention. In
particular in the literature in philosophy, the relation between mood and conditionals is the
criterion to distinguish two types of conditionals:
(34) a. Se João sai‐u,     
a Maria  cozinh‐ou.
If João leave‐perf.ind, the Maria cook‐perf.ind
“If João has left, Maria has cooked.”
b. Se João saí‐sse, a Maria cozinha‐va    / cozinha‐ria.
If João leave‐impf.subj, the Maria cook‐impf.ind/ fut.pret.ind
“If João would leave, Maria would cook.”
The futuro do pretérito/conditional are the verbal forms that appear in the main clause of the
so‐called “counterfactual conditionals,” as (34b) (in which the imperfeito seems to be more
informal than the conditional). And they are precisely those forms that seem problematic if
classified as indicative forms (see the previous section). Thus, a better understanding of
­
conditionals may help us understand these tenses.
In this chapter, our aim was to provide an introductory and concise view of the state
of the art in the study of mood and modality via an analysis of various facts in contem­
porary Portuguese. We argued that the indicative mood signals that only p‐worlds are
considered. This is even the case for the futuro do presente, the uncertainty being associ­
ated with partial knowledge. The futuro do pretérito/condicional and the imperfeito belong
to the indicative mood, but they do not select for an ordering source, while with other
indicative tenses the set of worlds is ordered by normality. We also advanced a hypo­
thesis to explain some of the mood contrasts between EP and BP: some data point to the
tendency for the indicative in BP to carry an assumption of factuality. Most of the
issues addressed were barely studied or not studied at all; moreover, we showed that
they seem to be related to other issues which also demand further investigation. These
topics only recently began to be considered in fields as language teaching, ­
language
acquisition or corpora annotation. But clearly, not only in Portuguese, these are flourish­
ing subjects of research.
Mood and Modality  423
Notes
1	 The notion of possible world has a long tradition in philosophy. The real world is one of an infinity
of possible worlds. A proposition is the set of possible worlds in which the state of affairs described
by such proposition is verified. See Portner (2009) for an introduction to modal logic and modality
in natural languages.
2	 Kratzer (2013) collects in a unique volume a series of papers from the end of the 1970s and
beginning of the 1980s which established the background of the contemporary formal view on
Mood and Modality.
3	 In non‐subordinated clauses, the subjunctive occurs in: imperative clauses, as in (i); in (semi‐)­
formulaic constructions, as in (ii); and under the scope of talvez (“maybe”) or oxalá (“God wishes”),
as in (iii)–(iv):
(i) Saiam!
“(You) Leave!”
(ii) Deus queira!
“God wishes!”
(iii)  Oxalá não chova.
“Wish it doesn’t rain.”
(iv) Talvez ele venha.
“Maybe he comes.”
4	 The glosses focus exclusively on the verb inflection that is under our investigation. The following
abbreviations are adopted: prs = Present; ind = Indicative; subj = Subjunctive; impf = Imperfect;
perf = Perfect.
5	 Sergio Menuzzi (p.c.) observes that these cases might be due to some tense and mood harmony
within the complement clauses of embora and of the embedded predicate: use of saiba “know‐prs.
subj” would call for the subjunctive in the complement of “know,” that is, for estivesse “was.subj”; but
“to know” is not used with subjunctive complements, normally. We thank him for the observation.
6	 In EP, the complement clause of imagine may also be in the subjunctive, but only in the epistemic
reading of the verb (in which it is roughly equivalent to believe) and if a low degree of belief is
expressed.
7	 Infinitive clauses with modal meaning are at the heart of the studies on covert modality (e.g., Bhatt
2006, Abraham and Leiss 2012).
8	 See Pessotto and Teixeira (2011).
9	 In cases like Quando acordei, devia estar chovendo, the sentence with the imperfective form is acceptable,
but the temporal perspective is not the speech time.
10	 The use of (18) in a context where a director orders someone to let the stone fall reinforces the claim
that the deontic use seems to require an agent.
11	 See Pires de Oliveira and Pessotto (2010).
12	 See Mortari and Pires de Oliveira (2014) for an introduction to Kratzer’s formal apparatus.
13	Unlike English causative “to make,” fazer does accept full (subjunctive) clauses, as in (i) below:
(i)  O João fez com que a Maria partisse.
the João made with that the Maria leave.impf.subj
“João made Maria leave.”
References
Abraham, W. and E. Leiss (eds.) (2012). Covert
Patterns of Modality. Newcastle upon Tyne:
Cambridge Scholars Publishing.
Austin, J. L. (1962). How to Do Things with Words.
Oxford: Clarendon Press. (Reimp. 1980, Oxford
University Press).
424  Rui Marques and Roberta Pires de Oliveira
Bhatt, R. (2006). Covert Modality in Non‐Finite
Contexts. Berlin: de Gruyter.
Cinque, G. (2006). Restructuring and functional
structure. In G. Cinque, Restructuring and
Functional Heads: The Cartography of Syntactic
Structures. vol. 4. New York: Oxford University
Press, pp. 11–63.
Condoravit, C. (2002). Temporal interpretation of
modals: modals for the present and for the
past. In D. Beaver, S, Kaufmann, B. Clark, and
L. Casillas (eds.), The Construction of Meaning.
Sanford, CA: CSLI Publications, pp. 59–88.
Costa Moreira, B. E. (2014). Two types of
dispositional adjectives. ReVEL, special issue,
8, pp. 186–196.
Farkas, D. (1992). On the semantics of subjunctive
complements. In P. Hirschbühler (ed.), Romance
Languages and Modern Linguistic Theory.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins, pp. 69–105.
Giannakidou, A. (1999). Affective dependencies.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 22 (4), pp. 367–421.
Giannakidou, A. (2013). (Non)veridicality,
evaluation, and event actualization: evidence
from the subjunctive in relative clauses.
In M. Taboada and R. Tvranc (eds.),
Nonveridicality, Perspective, and Discourse
Coherence. Brill, Studies in Pragmatics Series.
Gonçalves, A. (1992). Para uma Sintaxe dos
Verbos Auxiliares em Português Europeu.
Masters dissertation, University of Lisbon.
Hacquard, V. (2006). Aspects of modality. Ph.D.
dissertation, MIT.
Heim, I. (1992). Presupposition projection and
the semantics of attitude verbs. Journal of
Semantics, 9 (3), pp. 183–221.
Hockett, C. F. (1960). The origin of speech.
Scientific American, 203, pp. 89–96.
Hooper, J. B. (1975). On assertive predicates.
In J. P. Kimball (ed.), Syntax and Semantics 4.
New York: Academic Press, pp. 91–124.
Kratzer, A. (2013). Modals and Conditionals.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Marques, R. (1995). Sobre o valor dos modos
conjuntivo e indicativo em português. Masters
dissertation, University of Lisbon.
Marques, R. (2009). On the selection of mood in
complement clauses. In L. Hogeweg, H. de
Hoop, and A. Malchukov (eds.), Cross‐linguistic
Semantics of Tense, Aspect, and Modality.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins, pp. 179–204.
Marques, R. and A. T. Alves (2013). Sobre as
variações de modo nas frases subordinadas
temporais com antes. In A. Moreno, F. Silva,
I. Falé, I. Pereira, and J. Veloso (eds.), XXIX
Encontro Nacional da Associação Portuguesa de
Linguística: Textos Selecionados. Porto: Associação
Portuguesa de Linguística, pp. 333–343.
Mateus, M. H. M., A. M. Brito, I. Duarte, and
I. H. Faria (2003). Gramática da Língua
Portuguesa. Lisbon: Caminho.
Miranda, Z. B. de A. G. (1975). Aspectos do
comportamento sintático dos modais “dever”
e “poder.” Masters dissertation, Universidade
Estadual de Campinas.
Mortari, C. and R. Pires de Oliveira (2014).
Operadores modais: sistemas formais e
línguas naturais. ReVEL, special issue, 8,
pp. 159–185.
Oliveira, F. and A. Mendes (2013). Modalidade.
In Eduardo Paiva Raposo, M. F. Bacelar do
Nascimento, M. A. C. da Mota, L. Segura, and
A. Mendes (eds.), Gramática do Português.
Lisbon: Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian,
pp. 623–669.
Palmer, F. R. (1986). Mood and Modality.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Pessotto, A. L. and L. R. Teixeira (2011).
A contribuição da prosódia para a
interpretação do item “podia.” Working Papers
em Linguística (Online), 12, pp. 27–52.
Pires de Oliveira, R. and A. L. Pessotto (2010).
Wishing it were: podia and the implicature of
desire in Brazilian Portuguese. In S. Lima (ed.),
Proceedings of SULA 5: Semantics of Under‐
Represented Languages in the Americas,
1. Amherst, MA: GLSA Publications,
pp. 189–204.
Pontes, E. (1973). Verbos Auxiliares em Português.
Petrópolis: Vozes.
Portner, P. (1993). The semantics of mood,
complementation, and conversational
force. Natural Language Semantics,
5, pp. 167–212.
Portner, P. (2009). Modality. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Rech, N. F. (2011). Hierarquia dos núcleos
funcionais no português brasileiro. Revista da
Anpoll, 31 (1), pp. 207–225.
Rullmann, H., L. Matthewson, and H. Davis
(2008). Modals as distributive indefinites.
Natural Language Semantics, 16 (4),
pp. 317–357.
Salmon, W. C. (1998). Causality and Explanation.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Santos, M. J. V. (2003). Os usos do conjuntivo em
Língua Portuguesa: uma proposta de análise
sintáctica e semântico‐pragmática. Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Coimbra.
Searle, J. R. (1969). Speech Acts: An Essay in the
Philosophy of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Stalnaker, R. (1979). Assertion. In P. Cole (ed.),
Syntax and Semantics, vol. 9. New York:
Academic Press, pp. 315–332.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
Negation in Portuguese shares many properties with negation in other Romance languages,
but also displays some unique characteristics, especially when we take into account the
wider range of negation strategies found in varieties of spoken Brazilian Portuguese (BP).1
Because of parallelisms between certain structures and uses of negation and those of non‐
negative elements, it would also be necessary to situate negation in the broader perspective
of polarity‐related phenomena, such as in the work of Martins (2013) on European Portuguese
(EP). However, space limitations prevent me from doing that in detail here, and from
providing a comprehensive view of negation and all its intricacies at the sentential,
constituent, and other levels. Luckily, this has been done quite recently by Peres (2013), albeit
with a near‐exclusive focus on EP.
In addition to links between negation and other polarity‐related structures, the interac-
tions of negation with other grammatical phenomena are legion. While those found in
Portuguese may not be as striking as in, e.g., English, they still may effect profound changes
in linguistic structure. To cite just one of these structural phenomena, consider clitic pronoun
placement in EP (Washington forthcoming). As is well‐known, in finite clauses EP clitics
tend to appear in enclitic position (1a). But in the presence of certain triggers, such as com-
plementizer que “that,” adverbs like já “already” or também “also/too,” or WH‐questions
with a qu‐ word, the clitic instead occurs in proclitic position. Negative words constitute one
class of such triggers, as the examples with não “not” and nunca “never” show in (1b, c),
where the proclitic position of the clitic te “you” contrasts with its enclitic placement in the
affirmative example (1a).
(1a) Vi‐te na escola do meu filho.
“I saw you at my son’s school.”
(1b)  Não te vi na escola do meu filho.
“I didn’t see you at my son’s school.”
(1c) Nunca te vejo na escola do meu filho.
“I never see you at my son’s school.”
The pattern in (1) is described and at least implicitly prescribed by Portuguese grammars
(e.g. Cunha and Cintra 1985) and formal analyses (e.g. Martins 1995). Recent research on
naturally‐occurring data (Washington forthcoming) shows however that individual
members of the class of proclitic triggers actually demonstrate differences regarding how
Some Issues in Negation
in Portuguese
Scott A. Schwenter
23
426  Scott A. Schwenter
often they lead to proclisis in speech or writing. The important point for this chapter is that
negative elements can have important interactions with syntactic phenomena, and therefore
that negation makes up a core morphosyntactic process, fully integrated into grammatical
structure.
The rest of this chapter is organized as follows. In Section 2 I discuss “canonical” sentence
negation in Portuguese, and explain what that label entails. Section 3 deals with the best‐
known “non‐canonical” negative in Portuguese, mainly in BP, the so‐called dupla negação or
NEG2. It also describes differences between NEG2 and other non‐canonical negators, such
as strictly postverbal não or NEG3. Section 4 presents negative concord in Portuguese, and
suggests as worthy of further research some possible changes underway in BP. Section 5 dis-
cusses metalinguistic negation (Horn 1985) and points out important distinctions for exam-
ining this notion in Portuguese. Section 6 provides concluding remarks.
Throughout the discussion, I attempt to be as theory‐neutral as possible, both for readers
who may not know a given theory, and also due to the strong bias in Lusophone linguistics
toward generative / minimalist theories, and a comparative lack of analyses in other frame-
works. Indeed, one goal for this chapter is to foment future research on Portuguese negation
from a diverse set of theoretical perspectives, not only in syntax, but also semantics and
pragmatics.2
I also hope it will spur more research on negation in EP, where little investiga-
tion into this corner of the grammar has been carried out.
2.  Canonical or “standard” negation
According to Dahl (2010: 10), “there has been a strong tendency for typological studies to
concentrate on what has been seen as the basic negation constructions in [individual] lan-
guages.” Along these lines, and following typological studies by Miestamo (2005) and Bond
(2013), it is first useful to distinguish between canonical and non‐canonical negation in
Portuguese. The canonical form, which has been termed “standard negation” by Miestamo
(2005) and Payne (1985), provides a basis for comparison for all other forms. The latter can
diverge from the canonical expression in both morphosyntactic and semantic / pragmatic
terms, for instance by containing extra or distinct morphological material, requiring a specific
word order not found with the canonical negative construction, or being constrained by/to
a set of particular discourse‐contextual circumstances. Payne (1985:198) defines “standard”
negation this way in his typological overview of the phenomenon:
By “standard” negation we understand that type of negation that can apply to the most
minimal and basic sentences. Such sentences are characteristically main clauses, and consist
of a single predicate with as few noun phrases and adverbial modifiers as possible.
One must be careful however not to associate “standard” with social evaluation of the
negative form, since there is no necessary connection between a language’s canonical negator
and its social acceptance or rejection.3
Indeed, over time, what was the canonical form in a
language can become a non‐canonical form due to linguistic change, which always occurs
embedded in a social context. It is for this reason that I will prefer the label “canonical” to
“standard” in the rest of this chapter. In Portuguese, the form that fits the bill of the canonical
negator is the negative morpheme não in preverbal position in simple declarative main
clauses such as in (2a, b):
(2a)  A  Patrícia  não  dorme.
The  P.  not  
sleep:3sg
“Patricia does not sleep.”
Some Issues in Negation in Portuguese  427
(2b)  A Patrícia não come carne.
“Patricia does not eat meat.”
The semantic function of canonical or “standard” negation is to take an affirmative proposi-
tion p and convert it into a negated proposition ~p. Thus, in (2a), não reverses the polarity of
the affirmative proposition “Patricia sleeps,” i.e. changes the truth value of that proposition
from T to F, “Patricia does not sleep.”
According to Perini (2006: 86) there are two sentential negative morphemes in Portuguese.
In addition to the canonical negator não, the adverb mal “barely, hardly” should also be con-
sidered a sentential negator when in preverbal position. He provides the following example
(3) to illustrate:
(3) A noiva mal chegou a tempo para o casório.
“The bride barely arrived on time for the wedding.”
(3ʹ) A noiva chegou a tempo para o casório.
“The bride arrived on time for the wedding.”
It is debatable whether this use of mal should be considered a sentential negative, or one
that is on a par with canonical não. In fact, one of the entailments of (3) is (3ʹ), i.e. that the
bride actually did arrive on time, with the caveat that she was close to not arriving on time
(cf. Amaral 2007). In this use, mal is considered an approximative adverb with two meaning
components (cf. Horn 2002), an entailed, but non‐asserted, polar component (the proposi-
tion is entailed to be true), and an asserted proximal component, which in (3) asserts close-
ness to the non‐realization of the bride’s arrival (cp. quase, whose polar and proximal
components are the opposite of mal). Thus, while mal has an evaluatively negative meaning
in (3), it is not commutable with não. There are other uses of mal in EP, especially, where a
negative polar meaning is conveyed (like some uses of preverbal hardly in English), but
these all occur in specific construction with an epistemic stative verb (e.g. saber “to know”)
expressing imperfective aspect, typically with a postposed subject, and introducing a
sentential complement (4).
(4)  Mal sabia eu que estava perdido.
“Little did I know that I was lost.”
Such uses require a specific information‐structural configuration in the discourse context in
order to be felicitously licensed; they cannot be uttered in discourse‐initial position (for
detailed discussion, see Amaral and Schwenter 2009). In sum, these particular properties of
mal when it expresses a negative polar meaning actually make it a clear instance of a non‐
canonical negative form, and evince the polysemy of mal as both an approximative (3) and
as a non‐canonical negator (4).4
3.  Non‐canonical sentence negation: NEG2 (dupla negação)
and NEG3
One of the most well‐known properties of sentential negation in Portuguese is that there
exists the option of “doubling” the negative morpheme não in a single sentence. Structurally,
this kind of sentence consists of a preverbal negative and a postverbal negative “copy” that
occurs in sentence‐ or utterance‐final position. While the second negative is often repre-
sented orthographically after a comma, in speech there is rarely a pause before the second
instance of não, and prosodically it is contained within the intonational contour of the whole
sentence. In addition to the dupla negação, there also exists in BP the option of a postverbal
428  Scott A. Schwenter
negative without a corresponding preverbal negator. These structures are illustrated in (5b, c),
and labeled, as is now typical, as NEG2 and NEG3, respectively, along with the canonical
NEG1 (5a):
(5a)  Não vai muito para a universidade. (NEG1)
“She doesn’t go much to the university”
(5b) Não vai muito para a universidade não. (NEG2)
(5c) Vai muito para a universidade não. (NEG3)
(5b, c) express the same propositional content as the corresponding canonical NEG1 (5a).
Where the two non‐canonical negatives differ from NEG1, is in their information‐structural
constraints: only NEG1 can “surface in simple, unmarked declaratives” (Cyrino and Biberauer
2009) that introduce new information into the discourse. While this phenomenon is typically
associated with BP, NEG2 is also found less frequently in EP (Hagemeijer 2003; Peres 2013;
Nunes 2014), although its precise characteristics in Portugal remain to be described in detail.
Some scholars have attributed this construction in BP to a process of creolization, since many
African languages whose speakers were taken to Brazil for slavery have double negation con-
structions. However, its roots (like other phenomena with purported creole origin in BP)
appear to lie in a similar structure that has been available to EP speakers for centuries, and
appears, for instance, in sixteenth‐century plays by Gil Vicente (Cyrino and Biberauer 2009).
Note also that speakers of closely‐related Romance languages like Spanish allow no‐doubling
in all varieties, despite greater frequency in Caribbean dialects (cf. Schwegler 1996).
In some grammars (e.g. Thomas 1969), the availablity of doubling negatives is linked to
the presence of a preverbal não, but in reality the preverbal neg‐word does not have to be não
specifically, but rather can be drawn from any of the class of neg‐words, and não cannot co‐
occur preverbally with another of these neg‐words (in contrast to, e.g., standard varieties of
Catalan, where combining preverbal neg‐words with sentential negation is grammatical):
(6a)  A sua mãe nunca (*não) comeu em casa com a gente não.
“Your mother never ate with us at home.”
(6b) Ninguém (*não) pensa que vá chegar na hora não.
“Nobody thinks that she’s going to arrive on time.”
This kind of doubling construction is not, however, unique to negative sentences in
Portuguese; it is also possible to find doubling of adverbs such as já “already.” For instance,
a possible retort challenging the truth validity of a negative assertion could be as in (7):
(7) João: A sua mãe nunca comeu na minha casa.
“Your mom has never eaten at my house.”
Maria:  Ela já comeu já.
“She ate [there] already.”
More generally, utterance‐final postverbal position can be seen as a host for polarity‐reversing
items (“emphatic polarity”; Martins 2013), which often challenge the truth of a proposition
derivable from a prior utterance, as in (8), where the postverbal reinforcement of the
affirmative with sim targets the truth of the proposition derivable from João’s prior turn:
(8) João: A sua mãe nunca comeu na minha casa.
“Your mom has never eaten at my house.”
Maria: Ela (já) comeu sim!
“Yes she has eaten there!”
Such reinforcement with sim is extremely common in both BP and EP (Martins 2013). It
occurs most often in dialogic contexts such as (8), where one speaker is attempting to refute
Some Issues in Negation in Portuguese  429
a prior assertion by their interlocutor, or in adversative clauses after a conjunction like mas,
where it can be used in ellipsis to reverse the polarity of the prior clause (A Maria não come
farofa, mas o João sim, “Maria doesn’t eat farofa, but João does”). But the broader strategy of
reinforcement through repetition of polarity goes beyond the use of the polarity particles
themselves. For instance, in EP especially it is also common to use reduplication of the verb
in a context like (9), as discussed by Martins (2013):
(9) João: A sua mãe nunca comeu na minha casa.
“Your mom has never eaten at my house.”
Maria: Comeu comeu!
“Yes she has eaten there!”
In all cases, the additional material functions to overcome the metaphorical obstacle posed
by the opposing interlocutor’s viewpoint. It is in this sense that NEG2 or any doubling
construction can be considered intuitively “emphatic” (cf. Furtado da Cunha 2007:1650),
since they often deny a previous asserted viewpoint—typically an interlocutor’s immedi-
ately prior utterance—accessible in the discourse situation.
For Perini (2002: 436), the “double negative must be learned, because it is one of the
important patterns of the language and is extremely common in Brazilian speech,” a position
not held by many grammarians, since few, if any, other grammars even mention the existence
of the construction. Instead, many discussions of the NEG2 (and also NEG3, see below)
structures in BP have been contextualized in the rubric of what has come to be known (Dahl
1979) as “Jespersen’s Cycle,” following the original formulation by Otto Jespersen (1917).
This is the cyclical process by which sentential negatives are renewed via postverbal nega-
tive “strengtheners,” as occurred, most famously, in French. While the exact number of
stages can vary, a typical characterization of the French case, where the postverbal reinforcer
pas (< “step”) has been reanalyzed as the main exponent of sentential negation, is in (10)
(cf. Cyrino and Biberauer 2009):
(10)  French
Stage 1 Je ne mange “I don’t eat”
Stage 2 Je ne mange (pas)
Stage 3 Je ne mange pas
Stage 4 Je (ne) mange pas
Stage 5 Je mange pas
While some have recently either questioned a single characterization of the Cycle (Larrivée
2011), or have attempted to define multiple variants of the Cycle (van der Auwera 2009), it
remains a useful generalization of a pattern for cross‐linguistic comparison. In Jespersen’s
Cycle negative constructions move from being strictly preverbal, i.e. of the NEG1 type, to
being reinforced by a postverbal element in an “embracing” negative construction, i.e. of
the NEG2 type, and then strictly post‐verbal, of the NEG3 type, with variation typical of the
intermediate stages. French and English are the most well‐known cases of languages that
have gone through this Cycle, although modern‐day spoken European French still allows for
variation between Stages 4 and 5, and additional changes to the English grammatical system,
such as the introduction of do‐support, complicate comparisons. What differentiates cases
like these from that of Portuguese is that, first, as discussed below, NEG1 is still overwhelm-
ingly more frequent than either NEG2 or NEG3 in any variety, and in French and English
the original NEG1 construction was lost. Second, the cases that Jespersen (1917) and others
have used as models for the Cycle do not contain a repetition of the pre‐verbal negator in post-
verbal position, but rather a minimizing element (French pas “step”) or a negative indefinite
(English not < naught “nothing”), that later becomes the canonical sentential negator.
430  Scott A. Schwenter
While not wholly discarding the diachrony of the Portuguese system, greater attention
has been focused on the synchronic conditions licensing NEG2. Schwenter (2005, 2006)
offered an explanation for the use of NEG2 in BP based on information structure (cf. Birner
2006; Prince 1992), taking into account the contrast between activated and non‐activated
propositions in discourse (Dryer 1996). NEG2 or dupla negação is pragmatically felicitous pre-
cisely in those cases where the proposition it is negating is one that has been activated in
previous discourse, including via implicature; it is infelicitous in contexts without activation.
An example that illustrates this difference, and the non‐canonical nature of NEG2 versus the
canonical NEG1, can be seen in (11). Imagine a scenario in which the speaker leaves home
and remembers that she forgot to turn off the stove. She is walking along the street with her
friend when she suddenly realizes this mistake. Crucially, when verbalizing this state of
affairs, which is information being newly added into the discourse model, NEG1 is felici-
tous, while NEG2 is not:
(11) Nossa, não desliguei o fogão (#não)!!!
“Damn, I didn’t turn off the stove!!!”
The importance of the activation of the proposition becomes apparent once it is accessible in
the discourse context. Suppose the speaker’s friend asks her whether or not she turned off the
stove. In this case, NEG2 would become felicitous in the context (with ellipsis of the direct
object), and NEG1, being the canonical form without information‐structural restrictions on its
occurrence, would remain felicitous.
(12)  A: Você desligou o fogão?
“Did you turn off the stove?”
B: Nossa, não desliguei [o fogão] (não)!!!
“Damn, I didn’t turn off the stove!!!”
What the difference in felicity between (11) and (12) illustrates is that NEG2 is sensitive to the
discourse activation of the proposition it negates. While others have seen this as a sensitivity
to (pragmatic) presuppositions (Schwegler 1991), the last example illustrates that this is not
the case, since the proposition derivable from A’s question is neither presupposed nor neces-
sarily believed to be true when it is asked.
One important advantage of this account over others that posit pragmatic presupposition
or vague notions like “emphasis” as the keys to the felicity of NEG2 is that it can also account
for examples where the doubling of negation occurs in contexts of agreement between two
interlocutors, instead of disagreement and denial.
(13) A: A Maria não vai para a escola hoje.
“Maria isn’t going to school today.”
B: É. Não vai não.
“Yes. She’s not going.”
Such contexts are extremely difficult for an emphasis‐based account to deal with, since it would
be unclear what was being emphasized, or why agreement with NEG2 should be ­
different from
that with NEG1. On the information‐structural account, this case is treated like any other: NEG2
is licensed by the occurrence in the prior discourse of an activated proposition (“Maria is not
going to school today”), which is “re‐negated” by NEG2. No special explanation is needed for
cases such as (13) where there is no denial of a prior affirmative proposition, but instead
agreement with a prior negative proposition (cf. De Cuypere 2008: 235–6, who analyzes BP
NEG2 as “emphatic”). Research on the diachronic development of French and Italian negation
(Hansen and Visconti 2009) has since corroborated the ­
usefulness of information‐structural
notions for explaining the rise of and motivation for non‐canonical negatives.
Some Issues in Negation in Portuguese  431
Like much research in information structure (e.g. Birner and Ward 1998), this analysis
has provided an account of a sufficient licensing condition for NEG2 in BP, but not an
explanation for why speakers employ NEG2 at certain points in discourse but not others.
More recent research on BP has corroborated and refined Schwenter’s (2005) analysis,
and identified different types of NEG2. Working with data from the state of Rio Grande
do Sul, in far southern Brazil, Goldnadel and Lima (2014) have argued that NEG2 usage
can be differentiated pragmatically into “emphatic” uses that correct misguided prior
assumptions in discourse, and “topic maintenance” uses that signal that the current
discourse topic will be continued by the speaker. Nunes (2014) has recently found the
same distinction to hold for NEG2 in Lisbon Portuguese, in analyses of data from natu-
rally occurring speech and perception tests. These two types are prosodically distinct:
“emphatic” uses contain a tonic pitch accent on the postverbal negative, while “topic
maintenance” uses do not. This distinction is crucial for providing independent evidence
for the two uses, instead of assuming that NEG2 (or any repeated negative) constitutes
an inherently emphatic usage. In essence, this work has taken a complementary tack to
that of Schwenter, by focusing on the forward‐looking functions of NEG2 as opposed
to  the backwards‐looking contextual‐licensing requirements. Together, both kinds of
approaches will combine to provide a more comprehensive view of the meaning and
discourse‐pragmatic function of NEG2.
How do NEG2, the dupla negação, and NEG3, the strictly postverbal negative, differ? For
Schwenter (2005), NEG3 is found in a proper subset of contexts where NEG2 can be found.
The main discourse‐pragmatic licensing difference resides in the accessibility of the negated
proposition: NEG2 is felicitous with inferrable propositions, while NEG3 requires that the
proposition it targets be explicitly activated in the preceding discourse. Thus, while both
structures are felicitous in (14a), where the reply targets the “liking” proposition from A’s
utterance, only NEG2 is felicitous in (14b), where B is targeting an inferred proposition that
she believes A must believe to be true given the question:
(14a)  A: Você gostou do filme?
“Did you like the movie?”
B: (Não) gostei não. [Both NEG2 and NEG3 possible]
“I didn’t like it.”
(14b) [A assumes that B went to see the movie]
A: Você gostou do filme?
“Did you like the movie?”
B: Ah, #(não) fui não [Only NEG2 possible]
“Ah, I didn’t go.”
Other important differences between the two forms relate to frequency: NEG2 is consider-
ably more frequent in any variety of Portuguese where both NEG2 and NEG3 are found, and
indeed, as noted by Goldnadel and Lima (2014) there are varieties in the far southern region
of Brazil (e.g. Curitiba, Florianópolis, and Porto Alegre) where NEG3 is extremely rare, if
used at all. Even in northern and northeastern Brazil, where the popular view holds that
NEG3 is common, the frequency of NEG3 is low even in spontaneous conversation: only 13.3
percent of 466 negative tokens in the Natal data reported in Furtado da Cunha (2007) are
NEG3 versus 20.6 percent NEG2 and 66 percent NEG1.
Finally, recent work by Teixeira de Sousa (2011) and Cyrino and Biberauer (2009) has
brought to light a number of structural differences between NEG2 and NEG3 that sug-
gest that NEG3 is not merely a “reduced” version of NEG2 whose preverbal negative
has been “dropped” (cf. Furtado da Cunha 2007; Schwegler 1991).5
Among these differ-
ences are the fact that only NEG2, not NEG3, is found in subordinate clauses and that
432  Scott A. Schwenter
NEG3 is possible in metalinguistic negation, while NEG2 is barred from such contexts
(Schwenter 2005; Teixeira de Sousa 2011). As an alternative to the view that sees NEG3
as a “reduced” version of NEG2, Cyrino and Biberauer (2009) advance convincing
arguments that NEG3 derives historically from responses to yes–no questions (a con-
text where it is still used), while the postverbal não in NEG2 comes from a different
source, namely from an originally right‐dislocated negative that has been incorporated
into sentential structure.
3.1.  Changes in progress in BP?
One of the most fascinating aspects of BP negation is its variability between NEG1, NEG2,
and NEG3 structures. An important question that arises with respect to these different struc-
tural options is whether they are stable in time or whether they represent distinct synchronic
stages in a larger diachronic process that is changing the expression of negation in this
variety (or in some subset of BP varieties). For some authors (e.g. Furtado da Cunha 2007;
Schwegler 1991), the variation between the different sentence negation constructions consti-
tutes a case of grammaticalization and change in progress, where the endpoint of this
Jespersen Cycle‐style process is a new system of negation where NEG2 (and ultimately
NEG3) is the unmarked member.
In the discussion above, I have cast doubt on the view that derives NEG3 from NEG2
in the same way that French [V pas] derives from [ne V pas], by primarily basing the
discussion on discourse‐pragmatic constraints. But also problematic with this position is
the fact that there is little evidence, neither from apparent‐time data nor from real‐time
diachronic data, of change either occurring or having occurred. From a structural per-
spective, it is not the case that the postverbal não has become grammatically obligatory
in the sentential negation construction, in the way that pas has in French; rather, it
remains optional in all contexts. From a social perspective, one would also expect to see,
for instance, greater use of NEG2 and/or NEG3 among younger generations when com-
pared to older generations, as well as reasons for believing that these patterns are
revealing more than age‐grading between the generations. To my knowledge, however,
such patterns have not yet been discovered in BP. There are clear indications, neverthe-
less, of regional differences. Brazilian speakers’ intuitions that nordestinos use more
NEG2 and NEG3 appear to be borne about by the empirical facts (cf. Souza 2004), while
speakers in the extreme south, such as in Rio Grande do Sul, use NEG2 much less fre-
quently and use NEG3 very rarely, if ever (Goldnadel and Lima 2014).
Cavalcante (2009) shows that in isolated Afro‐Brazilian communities in northeast
Brazil there is lower use of NEG1, and higher use of NEG2/3, than in other communities
in the region that have a more mixed ethnic and demographic history, such as Fortaleza
and Natal. Nevertheless, his data from these Afro‐Brazilian communities shows that there
is stability in the usage patterns of the three variants. In fact, it is the oldest group (> 60
years of age) of speakers that uses the most NEG2 and NEG3, while the two younger
groups in his study (40–60 and 20–40 years of age) both use more NEG1 than the oldest
speakers. Thus, even in what might be considered extreme non‐standard varieties of BP,
stable variation between the three negative forms reigns (Cavalcante 2009: 266). In
conclusion, there is no clear evidence from any BP variety of change in progress of the
type NEG1 > NEG2 > NEG3. Rather, there is stability in the system whereby canonical
NEG1 is the overwhelmingly preferred form in any variety, despite frequency differences,
while NEG2 and NEG3 are discourse‐pragmatically marked variants with specific
licensing constraints.
Some Issues in Negation in Portuguese  433
4.  Negative concord and negative indefinites
Like its Romance sisters Spanish and Italian, Portuguese is a negative concord language that
requires that polarity‐sensitive words in a sentence agree with each other, specifically, a neg-
ative indefinite (like nada, nunca, ninguém) in postverbal position requires that there be
another negative in preverbal position to license the postverbal indefinite. The co‐occurrence
of these negative words in the same sentence does not result in a semantically positive inter-
pretation (as it might, for instance, in prescriptive English, where pedants stress that “two
negatives make a positive,” despite the absurdity of this rule and the fact that it is frequently
disregarded in many varieties of English). Thus for instance, while (15a) is grammatical with
não and the negative indefinite nunca, (15b) is not, since there is a lack of agreement between
the negative word não and the temporal adverbial alguma vez, which is a positive polarity
item incompatible with a co‐occurring negative in preverbal position:
(15a)  A Maria não vem nunca às festas.
“Maria never comes to the parties.”
(15b) *A Maria não vem alguma vez às festas.
“Maria doesn’t come sometimes to the parties.”
As the gloss for (15a) makes clear, the two negative words não and nunca lead to a single negative
interpretation, not the negative‐canceling (i.e. positive) interpretation. When negative indef-
inites in Portuguese appear in preverbal position, they do not need another preverbal trigger
in order to be licensed and in fact cannot co‐occur with one, but in postverbal position, they
require a negative trigger, as can be seen by the contrast in grammaticality between (15a)
above and (16b) below:
(16a)  A Maria nunca (*não) vem às festas.
“Maria never comes to the parties.”
(16b) *A Maria vem nunca às festas.
It is typically assumed implicitly or explicitly that the preverbal negative licensor in such
cases is the canonical negator não. But as (16a) shows, this is not the case, since the requirement
is just that some negative word must appear in preverbal position in order to provide the
polarity agreement on each side of the verb that is characteristic of negative concord.
Another way to formulate this generalization, as Thomas (1969: 287) points out, is that in
any negative clause that has a verb in it, at least one negative word must occur in preverbal
position. As we will see below, however, there exist some seemingly recent exceptions in the
class of negative sentences in BP that offer evidence to modify this position somewhat.6
Haspelmath (1997, 2013) distinguishes between three types of systems of negative indefi-
nites typologically, as below. While the first type is the most frequent cross‐linguistically,
among the Romance languages the most common pattern is as found in Portuguese, Spanish,
and Italian, where there is a mixed behavior depending on pre‐ vs. postverbal syntactic
position.
1.  NIs that always co‐occur with predicate negation (e.g. Russian)
2.  NIs that never co‐occur with predicate negation (e.g. standard German)
3.  NIs that show a mixed behavior:
•	 Different sets of NIs (e.g. standard English, Swedish)
•	 NIs with different behavior due to syntactic position (e.g. Spanish, Portuguese)
•	 Languages with bipartite negators wherein one part is precluded when co‐occurring
with NIs
434  Scott A. Schwenter
Within Romance, distinct varieties are classified as “strict” or “non‐strict” negative concord
languages: Romanian and Standard French are examples of the former, while Spanish,
Portuguese, and Italian are examples of the latter (Catalan is optionally strict, since neg‐words
may occur in preverbal position with or without negation). This means that negative indefi-
nites appearing in preverbal position either do (“strict”) or do not (“non‐strict”) co‐occur with
predicate negation. Thus, in Standard French personne “no one” co‐occurs with ne “not” (17a),
but in Portuguese ninguém cannot co‐occur with não when in preverbal position (17b).
(17a) Personne n’est venu.
“No one came.” (Standard French)
(17b)  Ninguém (*não) veio.
“No one came.” (Portuguese)
Again, however, when the neg‐word appears postverbally this picture changes: the post-
verbal version of (17b) without a preverbal negator is ungrammatical (*Veio ninguém) but
grammatical with the preverbal negator (Não veio ninguém). This behavior warrants the
inclusion of Portuguese in the mixed behavior class of negative indefinite languages in
Haspelmath’s typology.
However, the case of the negative indefinites appears somewhat more complex in
Brazilian Portuguese than in European Portuguese, despite a near‐complete lack of attention
to this dialectal difference in the existing literature (cf. Fonseca 2004). When neg‐words
appear in postverbal position, they purportedly require, as noted above, another negative in
preverbal position to be licensed. However, examples of negative indefinites in postverbal
position in colloquial BP without a preverbal negative trigger are nowadays easy to find,
especially on social media, as in the headline from a website for crowdsourcing questions
and answers (18a), from the community help pages of Facebook in (18b), or from an example
posted to Twitter (18c):
(18a)  Minha mulher me deixou e eu fiz nada, como faço pra superar?
“My wife left me and I did nothing, what do I do to overcome [this situation]?”
[http://br.answers.yahoo.com/question/index?qid=20110530175135AAFTAu3]
(18b) vocês podem me ajuda desbloquiar eu fiz nada pra ser bloqueado7
“Can you guys help me get unblocked I did nothing to be blocked.”
[https://www.facebook.com/help/community/question/?id=234721516691987]
(18c) Última vez que ele fez isso o radiador tava furado e ele falou nada.
“Last time he did that the radiator was pierced and he said nothing.”
[Twitter, 14 Dec. 2013]
It is probably no coincidence that these examples (a) come from a colloquial, and perhaps
even “oral” style such as that found on social media like Facebook or Twitter (where there
are thousands of BP examples of eu fiz nada “I did nothing,” but also many with other nega-
tive indefinites). Informal queries of native speakers who variably employ this form call it
“informal” as well as “not something I would use in formal writing,” suggesting a style
distinction between the grammar of negative concord, on the one hand, and postverbal
negative indefinites that appear without preverbal negative triggering, on the other hand.8
At the same time, however, it is striking that this possibility exists in BP, where word order
has also been shown to be becoming much more fixed in SVX order and where overt pro-
nominal subjects are becoming more and more frequent (Tarallo 1996). In other languages
where word order has become fixed as SVX and overt subjects have become the norm, such
as French or English, the possibility of using negative indefinites in postverbal position
without a preverbal trigger not only exists, but is the preferred pattern, at least in the ­standard
language (compare Standard English I saw nothing vs. Non‐Standard I didn’t see nothing).
Some Issues in Negation in Portuguese  435
An additional clue to this further development in the system of negative indefinites in BP
comes from Martins (1997, 2000), who notes that, unlike their Spanish or Italian counter-
parts, which can still appear in certain non‐negative contexts present‐day Portuguese nega-
tive indefinites are strong negatives that cannot appear in any non‐negative contexts (e.g.
modals or conditionals, or with predicates of doubt), even though they could in medieval
and classical Portuguese. The examples in (18), then, would represent a logical next step in
the process of development, whereby negative indefinites are now fully inherently negative
and do not require preverbal negative triggering to be grammatical. This would lead to BP
being classified as a different kind of mixed system than those in Haspelmath’s classification:
negative indefinites in postverbal position such as those in (18) may occur variably without
preverbal negative licensing, just as they occur bare in preverbal position. This phenomenon,
of course, is reminiscent of Jespersen’s Cycle, where postverbal elements that were not (fully)
negative are reinterpreted as such, except in this case the change is not affecting the canonical
expression of sentential negation (as it did in French or English), which as argued above is
stable and dominated by NEG1 in Portuguese, but rather the system of negative concord and
the licensing of postverbal negative indefinites.
5.  Metalinguistic negation
In a now‐classic article, Horn (1985) introduced into the linguistic world the concept of
“metalinguistic” negation, a particular use of negatives that does not affect the propositional
content of the negated sentence, but rather targets other aspects of it, such as its presupposi-
tions, the conversational implicatures associated with it, aspects of its pronunciation, etc.
Portuguese examples of each using the canonical negator não are given in (19):
(19a)  Ele não deixou de fumar, ele nunca fumou. [presupposition‐canceling]
“He didn’t stop smoking, he never smoked.”
(19b) Ela não é alta, é altíssima! [scalar implicature‐canceling]
“She’s not tall, she super‐tall!”
(19c) A: Eu [trusi] o feijão. [pronunciation‐objecting]
“I brung the beans.”
[“incorrect” pronunciation]
B:  Você não “[trusi]” o feijão, você “[trowsi]” o feijão.
“You didn’t brung the beans, you brought the beans.”
[“correct” pronunciation]
In (19a), the presupposition of the verbal construction deixar de + INF is that the subject of the
sentence engaged in the action described by the infinitive in the past. The metalinguistic
negation in (19a) does not deny the truth of the asserted proposition “He doesn’t smoke
[now]” but rather the presupposition that he smoked in the past. In (19b), the assertion that
the woman in question is alta can, and typically will, invite the inference that she is no more
than alta, i.e. that there is no stronger term on a scale of “tallness” that can be applied to her
appropriately. The metalinguistic negation here does not deny her tallness, but rather objects
to the upper scalar bound put in place by the adjective alta, and corrects it to a stronger scalar
term using the superlative altíssima. Finally, in (19c), the negation does not make reference to
the propositional content (“A brought the beans”), but rather targets A’s pronounciation of
the verb trouxe, which in non‐standard Brazilian varieties is often “incorrectly” produced as
[trusi]. The ensuing sentence provides what B considers to be the “correct” pronunciation,
i.e. [trowsi].
These examples illustrate what seems to be a universal property of canonical negation
across languages: the canonical negator in a given language can always be used to convey
436  Scott A. Schwenter
metalinguistic negation. Other, non‐canonical negators are more restricted in their range of
functions, as their name suggests, and one of their limitations is precisely the ability to be
employed in contexts of metalinguistic negation. For BP, Teixeira de Sousa (2011, 2013) notes
that one characteristic for distinguishing between NEG2 and NEG3 is precisely that only the
latter can be employed in contexts of metalinguistic negation: for instance, NEG2 would be
infelicitous in the examples in (19) above, while NEG3 would be fine. Following Martins
(2010), she notes that metalinguistic negation cannot occur in subordinate clauses, and nei-
ther can NEG3, while both NEG1 and NEG2 are acceptable in such contexts.
Martins (2010, 2014), for her part, describes three metalinguistic negation markers in EP:
lá, cá, and agora, and distinguishes on syntactic grounds between “peripheral” (agora) and
“internal” (lá, cá) metalinguistic negation. Among other properties, “peripheral” makers can
be employed as stand‐alone negative responses, but “internal” markers cannot. She exem-
plifies all three in the following short discourse sequence, and includes the example with the
canonical negator não for comparative purposes, since, as we have already seen, it can also
be used for metalinguistic negation.
(20)  A: Tu estás um pouco preocupado, não estás?
“You’re a little worried, aren’t you?”
B1: Eu não estou um pouco preocupado. Estou morto de preocupação.
B2: Eu estou {lá/cá/agora} um pouco preocupado. Estou morto de preocupação.
“I’m not a little worried. I’m dying of worry.”
The function of these markers in (20) is again to object to the potential scalar bound that
“a little worried” could impose on interpretation. But in spite of the claim (Martins 2014: 638)
that these are “unambiguous M[etalinguistic] N[egation] markers,” none of them perform
the metalinguistic denial on their own; the negation is only understood to be metalinguistic
once the second sentence with the upward scalar correction is uttered or written. Indeed,
Martins (2014: 660–61) provides other examples where all three of these markers are used as
descriptive negation that deny explicitly expressed propositional content (the English glosses
in [21] and [22] are from Martins). Since there is no phrase added to rectify the negated prop-
osition, as there is (20) above, all three negative markers are necessarily understood as
carrying out denials of propositional content and therefore classified as instances of descrip-
tive negation:9
(21) A: O hamster bateu a bota.
“The hamster died.”
B: Bateu {lá/cá/agora} a bota.
“No way it died.” [i.e. it is still alive]
(22) A: Tu sabes! Conta‐me tudo.
“You know! Tell me everything.”
B: Sei {lá/cá/agora}.
“Like hell I know.”
The general point here is that objections to prior assertions, as long as they target a prop-
osition derivable or inferrable from an assertion, are not necessarily a case of metalinguistic
negation, even though they are all construable as “denials” (Geurts 1998). As Horn (1985,
1989) pointed out, an objection to a prior utterance is a necessary but not sufficient condition
for identifying metalinguistic negation. Horn (2002) expands on this idea, utilizing the four‐
part typology of denials proposed by Geurts (1998), and arguing that what binds together
the different metalinguistic uses of negation cross‐linguistically is that they target non‐
asserted material (Horn 2002:78–9). Crucially, then, in order for an individual instance of
negation to be understood as metalinguistic in a stricter sense it must also be understood as
Some Issues in Negation in Portuguese  437
not targeting the asserted propositional content of that prior utterance; the negatives in both
(21) and (22) target explicitly‐asserted propositions derived from speaker A’s utterances, yet
all three EP “metalinguistic” markers are possible in these contexts. It remains to be seen
whether Portuguese, or any other language, has negative words or morphemes that are
wholly barred from targeting explicitly asserted propositional content. The converse
situation, however, seems to be uncontroversially true. Existing research (Schwenter 2005;
Teixeira de Sousa 2013) has already shown that NEG2 in BP, and presumably in EP as well,
is a primarily echoic form that targets the propositional content derivable or inferrable from
a prior assertion, but which cannot be employed in contexts of metalinguistic negation as
understood in stricter fashion as denials of non‐propositional content. Thus, while negators
that are only compatible with propositional or descriptive negation are possible, negators
that are only compatible with metalinguistic negation in the revised (Horn 2002) sense being
argued for here are not. Future research on Portuguese will need to sort out these issues from
both structural and discourse‐functional perspectives.
6. Conclusion
In this chapter, I have provided a brief overview of some of the most interesting recent
research in the realm of negation in Portuguese. As I have tried to emphasize throughout,
there are many sites in the landscape of negation and polarity more generally that are cur-
rently in flux, especially in the diverse varieties of spoken BP. It is my hope that the
discussion here will help generate considerable future research on negation in Portuguese,
most especially on EP, where our knowledge of negation is actually much more rudimen-
tary than in BP.
I have suggested implicitly that most of the “action” in Portuguese negation is to be found
in the non‐canonical negative forms and constructions. Not only do I believe this to be correct
for Portuguese, I think it holds true regardless of the language of study, since their examina-
tion reveals more about the motivations behind negation and how markedness relations
among negative forms and constructions are organized. Some of the non‐canonical negatives
that I have not dealt with here due to space reasons deserve their own detailed analysis:
scalar additive negatives like nem (cf. Amaral 2013), negative‐polarity items, both individu-
ally and as a group (cf. Martins 2000), additive negators like também não (cf. Schwenter 2003
on Spanish tampoco), to name just a few. And as is typically the case when dealing with
grammatical phenomena, the differences between BP and EP are usually anecdotal, at best,
and remain to be fully investigated and explained.
Notes
1	 For feedback, intuitions, and bibliographical pointers, I am very grateful to Patrícia Amaral,
Sonia Cyrino, Maj‐Britt Mosegaard Hansen, Larry Horn, Mary Johnson, Tammy Jones, Luana
Lima, Luana Nunes, Lílian Teixeira de Sousa, and Hannah Washington. As Larry would say,
needless to say…
2	 I believe it is fair to say that this bias extends well beyond negation to other grammatical phe-
nomena in Portuguese. The construction‐based and probabilistic syntactic approaches that have
proven to be very enriching alternatives to mainstream generative theories in recent years are essen-
tially absent from research on Portuguese.
3	 Even if preverbal não is considered the “standard” negator, there are other ways of pronouncing or
writing it that might be considered “substandard.” For instance, in BP it is often rendered in speech
438  Scott A. Schwenter
as num or nu, and recent studies have shown this to be a very frequent pronunciation (Ramos 2002;
Teixiera de Sousa and Vitral 2010), albeit with stratification by both age and education level.
4	 Matos (2003) also mentions sem and nem as basic negators in Portuguese, presumably due to the fact
that neither needs to be licensed by another negative to be grammatical. However, these forms also
show clear differences when compared to canonical preverbal não. In the first case, sem is a preposi-
tion that cannot negate a finite verb, and in the second, nem is either part of a negative coordination
structure (corresponding to English neither… nor…) or, if not, a scalar additive negator whose focus
is an extreme negated value in a scalar model (e.g. Nem o mais rico pode comprar isso “Not even the
richest person can buy that”).
5	 Teixeira de Sousa (2011) also discusses some uses of NEG3 in Northeastern BP that are not possible
in other varieties.
6	 Another phenomenon involving negation that is sensitive to preverbal vs. postverbal placement in
BP is the ordering of quantifier plus negative indefinite, e.g. mais nada vs. nada mais “nothing more.”
As Peake and Schwenter (2014) show using naturally occurring corpus data, the former, preposed
quantifier variant is much more frequent in postverbal position with a co‐occurring preverbal neg-
ative, while the latter, postposed quantifier variant is heavily preferred in preverbal position without
a co‐occurring negative.
7	 For example, examples like *O João contou nada ao Pedro “João didn’t tell Pedro anything” are consid-
ered wholly ungrammatical in grammars (e.g. Matos 2003:787), and probably rightly so in EP.
8	 Speakers from far southern Brazil (e.g. Porto Alegre) in general rarely employ strictly postverbal
negation (NEG3), as Goldnadel and Lima (2014) have shown. However, in a recent study of the
acceptability of the lack of negative concord in BP (Agostini and Schwenter 2015), no significant
differences were found for respondents from Porto Alegre when compared to respondents from São
Paulo (who by contrast employ NEG3 regularly), thereby suggesting that NEG3 and lack of nega-
tive concord are at least partially independent phenomena.
9	Other research (e.g. Peres 2013: 465) also fails to distinguish between dialogic metalinguistic nega-
tion targeting non‐asserted content and dialogic negation that applies to asserted propositional
content, which would be considered non‐metalinguistic descriptive negation following Horn’s
(2002) revised schema.
References
Agostini, T. and S. A. Schwenter (2015).
Variability in negative concord in Brazilian
Portuguese. Paper presented at the Buckeye
Language Network Symposium, Columbus.
Amaral, P. M. (2007). The meaning of
approximative adverbs: evidence from
European Portuguese. Ph.D. dissertation, Ohio
State University.
Amaral, P. M. (2013). “Smart as a fox”: Scalar
negation and comparative constructions in
Brazilian Portuguese. Paper presented at ICL
19, Geneva.
Amaral, P. M. and S. A. Schwenter (2009).
Discourse and scalar structure in non‐
canonical negation. Proceedings of the Annual
Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society, 35,
pp. 367–378.
Birner, B. J. (2006). Inferential relations and
noncanonical word order. In B. J. Birner and G.
Ward (eds.), Drawing the Boundaries of Meaning.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins, pp. 31–51.
Birner, B. J. and G. Ward (1998). Information Status
and Noncanonical Word Order in English.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Bond, O. (2013). A base for canonical negation. In
D. Brown, M. Chumakina, and G. G. Corbett
(eds.), Canonical Morphology and Syntax.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, pp. 20–47.
Cavalcante, R. (2009). A negação sentencial. In D.
Lucchesi, A. N. Baxter, and I. Ribeiro (eds.), O
português afro‐brasileiro. Salvador: EDUFBA,
pp. 251–267.
Cunha, C. and L. F. L. Cintra (1985). Nova
Gramática do Português Contemporâneo. Rio de
Janeiro: Nova Fronteira.
Cyrino, S. and T. Biberauer (2009). Appearances
are deceptive: Jespersen’s Cycle from the
perspective of the Romania Nova and
Romance‐based creoles. Paper presented at
Going Romance 23, Nice.
Dahl, Ö. (1979). Typology of sentence negation.
Linguistics, 17, pp. 79–106.
Some Issues in Negation in Portuguese  439
Dahl, Ö. (2010). Typology of negation. In
Laurence R. Horn (ed.), The expression of
negation. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, pp. 9–38.
De Cuypere, L. (2008). Limiting the Iconic.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Dryer, M. S. (1996). Focus, pragmatic
presupposition, and activated propositions.
Journal of Pragmatics, 26, pp. 475–523.
Fonseca, H. D. C. da (2004). Marcador negativo
final no português brasileiro. Cadernos de
Estudos Linguísticos, 46, pp. 5–19.
Furtado da Cunha, M. A. (2007).
Grammaticalization of the strategies of
negation in Brazilian Portuguese. Journal of
Pragmatics, 9, pp. 1638–1653.
Geurts, B. (1998). The mechanisms of denial.
Language, 74, pp. 274–307.
Goldnadel, M. and L. S. de Lima (2014). Topic
maintenance as the pragmatic motivation for
the rise of double negative utterances in
spoken Brazilian Portuguese. Paper presented
at AMPRA 2, Los Angeles.
Hagemeijer, Tjerk. 2003. Elementos polares na
periferia direita: negação aparentemente
descontínua, afirmação enfática e tags. Paper
presented at the XIX Encontro Nacional da
Associação Portuguesa de Linguística, Lisbon.
Hansen, M.‐B. M. and J. Visconti (2009). On the
diachrony of “reinforced” negation in French
and Italian. In C. Rossari, C. Ricci, and A.
Spiridon (eds.), Grammaticalization and
Pragmatics. Bingley: Emerald, pp. 137–171.
Haspelmath, M. S. (1997). Indefinite Pronouns.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Haspelmath, M. S. (2013). Indefinite pronouns.
In M. S. Dryer and M. Haspelmath (eds.),
The World Atlas of Language Structures Online,
Leipzig: Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology. Available online at http://wals.
info/chapter/46.
Horn, L. R. (1985). Metalinguistic negation and
pragmatic ambiguity. Language, 61,
pp. 121–174.
Horn, L. R. (1989). A Natural History of Negation.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Horn, L. R. (2002). Assertoric inertia and NPI
licensing. Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of
the Chicago Linguistic Society. Volume 38, Part
Two: The Panels, pp. 55–82.
Jespersen, O. A. (1917). Negation in English and
Other Languages. Copenhagen: A.F. Høst &
Son.
Larrivée, P. (2011). Is there a Jespersen Cycle? In
Pierre Larrivée and Richard Ingham (eds.), The
Evolution of Negation: Beyond the Jespersen Cycle.
Berlin: de Gruyter, 1–21.
Martins, A. M. (1995). Clitic placement from Old
to Modern European Portuguese. In H.
Andersen (ed.), Historical Linguistics 1993:
Selected Papers from the 11th International
Conference on Historical Linguistics. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins, pp. 295–307.
Martins, A. M. (1997). Aspectos da negação na
história das línguas românicas. Actas do XII
Encontro da Associação Portuguesa de Linguística,
vol. II. Lisboa: Associação Portuguesa de
Linguística, pp. 179–210.
Martins, A. M. (2000). Polarity items in Romance:
underspecification and lexical change. In
S. Pintzuk, G. Tsoulas, and A. Warner (eds.),
Diachronic Syntax: Models and Mechanisms.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, pp. 191–219.
Martins, A. M. (2010). Negação metalinguística
(lá, cá, agora). In A. M. Brito, F. Silva, J. Veloso,
and A. Fiéis (eds.), Actas do XXV Encontro da
Associação Portuguesa de Linguística. Lisbon:
Associação Portuguesa de Linguística.
Martins, A. M. (2013). Emphatic polarity in
European Portuguese and beyond. Lingua, 128,
pp. 95–123.
Martins, A. M. (2014). How much syntax is there
in metalinguistic negation? Natural Language
and Linguistic Theory, 32, 635–672.
Matos, G. (2003). Aspectos sintácticos da negação.
In M. H. M. Mateus, I. Duarte, and I. H. Faria
(eds.), Gramática da língua Portuguesa. Lisbon:
Editorial Caminho, pp. 767–793.
Miestamo, M. (2005). Standard Negation: The
Negation of Declarative Verbal Main Clauses in a
Typological Perspective. Berlin: de Gruyter.
Nunes, L. L. (2014). Motivações pragmáticas para
o uso de dupla negação: um estudo do
fenômeno em português europeu. Bachelor
dissertation, Universidade Federal do Rio
Grande do Sul.
Payne, J. R. (1985). Negation. In T. Shopen (ed.),
Language Typology and Syntactic Description,
vol. 1: Clause Structure. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, pp. 197–241.
Peake, J. and S. Schwenter (2014). Nada mais
variation in Brazilian Portuguese, mais nada.
Paper presented at NWAV 43, Chicago.
Peres, J. A. (2013). Negação. In E. B. P. Raposo,
M. F. B. do Nascimento, M. A. C. da Mota, L.
Segura, and A. Mendes (eds.), Gramática do
Português, vol. 1. Lisbon: Fundação Calouste
Gulbenkian, pp. 459–498.
Perini, M. A. (2002). Modern Portuguese: A
Reference Grammar. New Haven, CT: Yale
University Press.
Perini, M. A. (2006). Gramática descritiva do
português. São Paulo: Editora Ática.
440  Scott A. Schwenter
Prince, E. F. (1992). The ZPG letter: subjects,
definiteness, and information status. In S. A.
Thompson and W. Mann (eds.), Discourse
Description: Diverse Analyses of a Fundraising
Text. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, pp. 295–325.
Ramos, J. M. (2002). A alternância entre “não” e
“num” no dialeto mineiro: um caso de
mudança lingüística. In M. A. A. M. Cohen
and J. M. Ramos (eds.), Dialeto Mineiro e
Outras Falas: Estudos de Variação e Mudança
Lingüística. Belo Horizonte: UFMG,
pp. 155–167.
Schwegler, A. (1991). Predicate negation in
contemporary Brazilian Portuguese: a change
in progress. Orbis, 34, pp. 187–214.
Schwegler, A. (1996). La doble negación
dominicana y la génesis del español caribeño.
Hispanic Linguistics, 8, pp. 247–315.
Schwenter, S. A. (2003). No and tampoco: a
pragmatic distinction in Spanish negation.
Journal of Pragmatics, 35, pp. 999–1030.
Schwenter, S. A. (2005). The pragmatics of
negation in Brazilian Portuguese. Lingua, 115,
pp. 1427–1456.
Schwenter, S. A. (2006). Fine‐tuning Jespersen’s
Cycle. In B. J. Birner and G. Ward (eds.),
Drawing the Boundaries of Meaning: Neo‐Gricean
Studies in Honor of Laurence R. Horn.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins, pp. 327–344.
Souza, A. S. de. (2004). As estruturas de negação
em uma comunidade rural afro‐brasileira:
Helvécia‐BA. Online at http://www.hyperion.
ufba.br/_texts/2004‐2/arivaldosouza.doc
(accessed November 24, 2015).
Tarallo, F. (1996). Turning different at the turn of
the century: 19th century Brazilian Portuguese.
In G. R. Guy, C. Feagin, D. Schiffrin, and J.
Baugh (eds.), Towards a Social Science of
Language: Papers in Honor of William Labov, vol. 1.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins, pp. 199–220.
Teixeira de Sousa, L. (2011). Sentential negation
in Brazilian Portuguese: pragmatics and
syntax. JournaLipp, 1, pp. 89–103.
Teixeira de Sousa, L. (2013). Sentential negation
at the syntax‐prosody interface. Veredas, 17,
pp. 1–19.
Teixeira de Sousa, L. and L. Vitral (2010). Formas
reduzidas da forma “não” no português
brasileiro. In L. Vitral and S. Coelho (eds.),
Estudos de Processos de Gramaticalização em
Português. Campinas: Mercado de Letras,
pp. 229–254.
Thomas, E. W. (1969). The Syntax of Spoken
Brazilian Portuguese. Nashville: Vanderbilt
University Press.
van der Auwera, J. (2009). The Jespersen Cycles.
In E. van Gelderen (ed.), Cyclical Change.
Amsterdam: Benjamins, pp. 35–71.
Washington, H. (forthcoming). Lexical frequency
and language change: object clitic placement in
European Portuguese. Estudos Linguísticos/
Linguistic Studies.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
The concept of Discourse Markers (henceforth DMs) is far from being settled in the linguistic
community. Furthermore, there is a range of alternative expressions competing with it, such
as pragmatic markers (Fraser 1990, Brinton 1996), discourse particles (Shourup 1985, Fisher
2006), discourse connectives (Blakemore 1987), cue phrases (Knott and Dale 1994), discourse
operators (Redecker 2006), among others. Although there is no definition of DMs that is uni-
versally accepted, specially because of the wide range of linguistic approaches grounded in
different theoretical frameworks,1
there are two main subsets of linguistic expressions that
are usually labeled by the term: on the one hand, expressions that index the utterances to the
speaker and/or the hearer, enabling joint coordination of interaction; on the other hand,
expressions that signal a relation between two discourse segments, guiding hearers in the
interpretation process.
Pervasive in spontaneous, informal and unplanned conversations, expressions belonging
to the first subset are devices to manage the interaction (signaling turn‐taking, turn‐holding
and turn‐yielding, marking back‐channel feedback, pointing out hesitations in on‐line
discourse planning) and to smooth interpersonal relations through politeness discourse
strategies. Some examples of these DMs, in Portuguese, are olha, ouve lá (“look”), percebes
(“you see”), não é, né?, certo? (“right?”), pronto (“ok”), tás a ver (“you know”), pois, claro
(“yeah,” “sure,” “right”), bem (“well”), por favor (“please”). Conversational Markers would
be a transparent label to refer to this subset of DMs. Conversation Analysis and Politeness
Theory provide relevant tools to describe and explain the interactional functions of this
subset of items.2
The second set of expressions is not restricted to oral interactions and its
function is to contribute to discourse coherence; examples in Portuguese are: contudo (“how-
ever”), além disso (“furthermore”), de facto (“in fact”), ao invés, pelo contrário (“on the con-
trary”), portanto (“so”), quer dizer (“that is”), “de qualquer modo (“anyway”), já (“whereas”).
Being discourse connectives, they are two‐place operators, giving instructions on how to
relate their host unit with a previous discourse segment, thus guiding discourse interpreta-
tion. The two subsets of expressions share a common property: both require pragmatic
descriptions, since both operate at different levels of discourse structure.
In this chapter, the label DMs will be used to refer to the second subset of expressions. It
will be assumed that DMs are relevant in the recognition of discourse relations,3
that is, rela-
tions that hold together different segments of a discourse, building up its coherence. The
recognition of discourse relations by the hearer or the reader enables them to construct a
Discourse Markers
Ana Cristina Macário Lopes
24
442  Ana Cristina Macário Lopes
coherent mental representation of the whole discourse, and there is experimental evidence
that DMs play an important role in this process. It will also be assumed that DMs link utter-
ances, i.e., discourse units, and not clauses within a complex sentence. The aim of this chapter
is not to provide the reader with an exhaustive list of Portuguese DMs, but rather to sketch
a synthesis of the most widely discussed properties of DMs, drawing on current scholarly
debates, to relate classes of DMs with discourse relations, through clear examples from the
Portuguese language, and to outline future research in the area.
The empirical data used in this chapter involve constructed examples as well as data col-
lected from corpora.4
The latter are presented between quotation marks. All the examples are
from contemporary European Portuguese.5
2.  Properties of DMs
In spite of the impressive diversity of perspectives on DMs, it is still possible to draw up a
cluster of properties generally discussed by researchers in the area. First of all, DMs are a
­
syntactically heterogeneous class of linguistic expressions that include conjunctions (mas, e…),
adverbs(agora,então,já…),prepositionalphrases(dequalquermodo,porconseguinte,noentanto…),
and other fixed phrases involving verbs (isto é, quer dizer…); thus, DMs can only be defined in
pragmatic or functional terms, i.e., taking into account their connective function in discourse.
Typically, they articulate two adjacent discourse segments, as is shown in example (1), but they
can also relate their host segment with several previous segments, as (2) illustrates:
(1)  O Rui fuma muito. No entanto, não tem problemas de saúde.
“Rui is a heavy smoker. However, he is healthy.”
(2) Aprendeu a língua do país de acolhimento e conseguiu um emprego. Fez amigos. Enfim,
integrou‐se.
“He has learned the language of his host country and got a job. He has made friends.
To sum up, he has adapted.”
Another issue widely discussed in the literature on DMs is related to their meaning. It is
acknowledged that DMs do not contribute to the propositional content of their host utter-
ance,6
since they do not have conceptual or representational meaning. Their core meaning is
procedural, i.e., they encode instructions on how the segment they typically introduce is to
be interpreted relative to prior discourse.7
Therefore, they provide clues for the hearer/
reader “on how to integrate their host utterance into a coherent mental representation of
discourse.” (Hansen 1998: 358). Given their procedural meaning, DMs are crucial devices
constraining the process of discourse interpretation, hence playing a decisive role in the
building up of discourse or text coherence. This can be illustrated by (3), where the DM por-
tanto signals that the second utterance is to be interpreted as a conclusion derived from the
previous one:
(3)  O carro está na garagem. Portanto, o Rui está em casa.
“The car is in the garage. Therefore, Rui is at home.”
Another relevant issue concerning DMs is their distribution. Typically, they occur in utter-
ance initial position, as in (3). But many of them may float, which means that they may also
occur in medial or final position in the utterance, as is shown in the following examples:
(3a)  O carro está na garagem. O Rui, portanto, está em casa.
(3b) O carro está na garagem. O Rui está, portanto, em casa.
(3c) O carro está na garagem. O Rui está em casa, portanto.
Discourse Markers  443
Thus, contrary to conjunctions that relate clauses within a complex sentence, which have a
fixed initial position, a large number of DMs display a certain mobility within their host
utterance. It is worth noticing that, when they are interpolated or parenthetical, they can
occur between the subject and the predicate (3a) or between the constituents of the verb
phrase (3b), but they cannot be more embedded than this. Hence, they cannot occur within
noun phrases or prepositional phrases (cf. 3d, 3e):
(3d)  O carro está na garagem. *O, portanto, Rui está em casa.
(3e) O carro está na garage. *O Rui está em, portanto, casa.
In terms of morphological properties, DMs are invariable units. When they are formed by
more than one lexical item, they behave as frozen phrases, and have to be analyzed as a
single lexical entry. See the contrast between (4) and (5):
(4) Eles não tomam calmantes. Quer dizer, tomam muito raramente.
They don’t take tranquilisers. Wants to‐say, they take them very rarely.
“They don’t take tranquilisers. I mean, it’s rare.”
(5) Eles querem dizer que só raramente tomam anseolíticos.
“They want to say that it is rare for them to take tranquilisers.”
In (4), quer dizer is a reformulative DM, and therefore verbal inflection is totally excluded,
whereas in (5) querem dizer is as a syntactic combination, constrained by the rules of verbal
agreement. The fact that DMs with more than one item behave as frozen fused phrases with
a connective function may be seen as the outcome of a grammaticalization process.8
In fact,
many DMs have developed from free syntactic and semantic word combinations, namely
prepositional phrases (em todo o caso “in any case,” de qualquer modo “anyway,” ao invés “on
the contrary”). This means that they have “derived from terms that served primarily con-
tentful rather than procedural functions” (Traugott and Dasher 2002: 153), undergoing a
process involving decategorization and reanalysis, and there is empirical evidence that this
process is replicated cross‐linguistically (Traugott 1995, Traugott and Dasher 2002, a.o.).
Fused expressions that in contemporary Portuguese behave, in certain contexts, as DMs still
occur in other contexts as verbal adjuncts or adverbials, with different semantic functions
within the proposition, according to their basic semantic value. This phenomenon, known
as “layering” and also attested in other languages, shows that the emergence of new mean-
ings and functions may coexist with old ones, reflecting different stages of the grammatical-
ization process.9
Concerning their prosodic behaviour, some authors argue that prototypical DMs are a
tone unit, with a parenthetical intonation contour, i.e., separated by pauses from the seg-
ments they connect. In written texts, these pauses are signaled by punctuation (comas, semi‐
colon and coma, or period and coma). But no strong generalization can be made, since there
are DMs like e (“and”) that do not fit this pattern.
Finally, a property usually refered to as inherent to DMs is their polyfunctionality.10
In
fact, many descriptive studies of DMs, in different languages, confirm that a single item
may fulfill more than one function. Let us give an example in Portuguese, namely the DM
enfim:11
(6) E o sucesso desta novela (…) prende‐se com pontos tão inequívocos como a boa direcção de
actores, a utilização de uma história portuguesa, o aproveitamento do passado recente para uma
série de ficção, enfim, a introdução de um ritmo de trabalho espartano.
“And the success of this soap opera is the outcome of the director’s role concerning the
actors, the choice of a Portuguese story, the use of the recent past in a fictional series,
and, finally, the introduction of a spartan rhythm of work.”
444  Ana Cristina Macário Lopes
(7) Carrego água para o gado, trato do gado, trabalho com o tractor, enfim, faço tudo o que é
preciso fazer.
“I feed and water the cattle, work with the tractor, well/to sum up, I do everything
necessary.”
In (6), enfim signals the end of an enumeration, whereas in (7) it signals that the next ­utterance
summarizes and concludes the speaker’s intervention.
In short, there are three competing perspectives on the issue of DMs polyfunctionality.
The homonymic approach postulates that if a given form has different uses, then these uses
are taken to represent separate lexical entries. This approach is unable to address the common
intuition among native speakers that “homonyms” are somehow semantically related, and
thus it is rather unsatisfying. The monosemic perspective, which aims to simplify semantic
descriptions and avoid an unnecessary proliferation of lexical entries, strives to circumsbribe
an invariant core meaning underlying the different uses of a DM, and explains the different
modulations of meaning attested as the outcome of contextual linguistic constraints. In
descriptive terms, this approach is not without problems, mainly because the formulation of
the invariant core meaning may end up being so general and abstract that it risks becoming
onomasiologically non‐distinctive. Finally, the polysemic approach defends that there is a
basic meaning from which all others have developed, triggered by cognitive or pragmatic
factors. In this perspective, it is is possible to relate different meanings in a motivated way,
emphasizing their family resemblances. When the polysemic approach is complemented
with historical research (Traugott and Dasher 2002, a.o.), the interdependency between syn-
chronic usages and diachronic change is highlighted and gives rise to fruitful hypotheses on
the development of DMs.
Any attempt to delimit classes of DMs has to cope with the polyfunctionality of these ver-
satile items. Being aware of the difficulty to establish clear‐cut classes of DMs, I will address,
in the next section, the possibility of grounding some general classes of DMs on the discourse
relations they may signal. The interaction with the linguistic context of occurrence, as well as
the discourse type in which it occurs, may be responsible for a more fine‐grained specifica-
tion of the functions of each DM.
3.  Classes of DMs
The classes of DMs which will be discussed in this section are a simple, and by no means
exhaustive, contribution for the description of the functional spectrum of DMs, based on
Portuguese data.12
The challenge is to verify if there is a match between discourse relations
and (some) classes of DMs.13
As the set of discourse relations is not definite or closed, and the
terms used to identify and to define them are not convergent in the different theoretical
frameworks focused on discourse or text coherence14
, the option taken in this section was to
choose the more transparent labels available in the literature and to provide a simple and
intuitive characterization of each relation at stake. Moreover, this section also questions how
to categorize DMs whose function cannot be directly explained within the framework of
discourse relations.
3.1.  Elaborative DMs
This broad class includes DMs which typically introduce utterances providing additional
information about the situation described in the previous utterance (or some aspect of it).15
This basic additive value may encompass an exemplification or a specification. The follow-
ing sequence illustrates an elaboration through specification:
Discourse Markers  445
(8)  Estas medidas visam uma maior abertura do Estado e o estabelecimento de transparência na
relação Estado‐cidadão. Mais concretamente, as medidas propostas pretendem acelerar a
educação para a sociedade da informação e disponibilização de meios de base e de recursos às
escolas, às associações, às bibliotecas (J64267).
“These measures are intended to establish a greater transparency in the
relationship between the State and the citizens. More concretely (“in particular”),
the measures are intended to speed up the process of educating for the
information society and to provide the schools, the associations and the libraries
with the basic resources”
Other Portuguese DMs belonging to this class are por exemplo “for example,” nomeadamente
“namely,” designadamente “particularly,” em particular “in particular,” especificamente “specif-
ically,” a saber (literally”to know,” meaning “namely”). The latter is predominantly used to
signal that an enumeration will specify what has just been stated:
(9) É necessário percorrer diversas etapas, a saber: levantar o formulário na repartição de
finanças, preenchê‐lo, devolvê‐lo acompanhado de fotocópia do BI e do cartão de
contribuinte.
“It is necessary to go through different steps, to know (“namely”): get the application
form in the tax office, fill it out, hand it in with a photocopy of your identity card and
the taxpayer’s card.”
DMs like de facto “in fact,” com efeito (literally “with effect,” meaning “in fact, indeed”),
efectivamente (literally “effectively,” meaning “indeed”), na verdade (literally “in the truth,”
meaning “as a matter of fact”), na realidade (literally “in the reality,” meaning “actually”)
may also be included in this class, since their main function is to elaborate, and
­
consequently expand, the content of the previous utterance, in order to make it more pre-
cise or detailed:
(10) A televisão (…) exerce com vantagens a função de integração cultural. De facto, a televisão é
bem o instrumento privilegiado de veiculação e de imposição aos que se encontram ainda à
margem do sistema das maneiras de pensar, de sentir e de agir mais consentâneas aos códigos
culturais da sociedade industrial.
“Television has advantages in terms of cultural integration. In fact, television is the
ultimate tool to convey and impose ways of thinking, feeling and acting, which
correspond to the cultural codes of industrial society, on those who remain on its
margins.”
The correlative DM por um lado… por outro… “on the one hand…on the other hand,” in many
contexts, pinpoints the same discourse relation, since the segments it introduces instantiate
previous information. But it is worth noticing that it also draws a contrast between the two
segments it joins in the elaboration, as is shown in (11):
(11)  Havia na sua personalidade contradições insolúveis. Por um lado, um egoísmo desumano e
cego; por outro, a mais espontânea disponibilidade para servir o semelhante.
“His personality was irremediably contradictory: one the one hand, a blind and
inhuman selfishness; on the other hand, the most spontaneous availability to serve
others.”
As has already been pointed out, the polyfunctionality of DMs makes it rather difficult to
assign a single function to many (if not to the majority) of them. In fact, elaborative DMs may
be used, in certain discourse types, namely in argumentative discourse, to instruct the
hearer/reader that the next segment is to be processed as additional information leading to
a conclusion which could already be derived from the previous utterance. In other words,
446  Ana Cristina Macário Lopes
they may relate two utterances with a similar argumentative orientation, thus reinforcing or
strengthening the speaker’s / writer’s standpoint and bolstering the hearer’s acceptance of
it. The following example illustrates our point:
(12)  O local onde vamos intervir é, actualmente, pasto de marginais. Trata‐se de uma área que
funciona como reduto de toxicodependentes. Além do mais, dado o seu estado de abandono,
existem enormes quantidades de silvas que, no verão, provocam inúmeros incêndios. (…)
É um autêntico “câncro” na cidade.
“The place where works are planned is full of those living on the margins of society.
It is an area where drug addicts hang around. Furthermore, given its abandoned
state, it is full of brambles, which, in the summer, give rise to lots of fires. It is a real
“cancer” on the city.”
Empirical data like (12) raise some questions, both in theoretical and in descriptive terms:
is the marking of an elaborative relation somehow backgrounded by the marking of a
supplementary supporting argument for an identical claim? Do the two functions overlap,
one of them characterized in relation to the content domain (elaboration), and the other
one in relation with the pragmatic domain (evidence)? Do argumentative discourse types
coerce elaborative DMs to signal supplementary evidence? It seems plausible that extensive
and cross‐linguistic data‐driven research on DMs, focused on different discourse types,
may refine discourse relations’ taxonomies and shed further light on regular correspon-
dences between the content and the pragmatic or rhetorical domains of discourse
structure.
In Portuguese, there are other DMs which typically behave like elaborative ones: além
do mais (literally “beyond anything else,” meaning “besides”), mais (ainda) “(even)
further,” para mais (literally “for more,” meaning “moreover”), de mais a mais
(literally”from more to more,” meaning “moreover”), além disso (literally “beyond this,”
meaning ­“furthermore”), adicionalmente “in addition,” inclusive (literally “inclusively,”
meaning “furthermore, besides”), sobretudo (literally “above all,” meaning “mainly”),
ainda por cima (literally “yet above the top,” meaning “on top of this”), acima de tudo
“above all,” para cúmulo “to top it all.” But it is worth noticing that they are not totally
equivalent and, thus, not interchangeable in all contexts of use. A more fine‐grained anal-
ysis shows that, for example, ainda por cima and para cúmulo, unlike além disso or adiciona-
lmente, occur in argumentative discourses where an implicit evaluative scale is activated
in the interpretation process. The segments introduced by the DM’s ainda por cima and
para cúmulo must follow the same argumentative orientation as the previous ones, with
the extra requirement of adding a final stronger point for an intended conclusion. In
example (13a) below, the fact that the houses are expensive is presented as even worse
than all the other negative aspects previously mentioned:
(13a)  As canalizações rebentam, as portas não têm todas o mesmo tamanho, as paredes são tortas
e feitas de blocos de cimento (…)—e ainda por cima são caras.
“The plumbing bursts, the doors are different sizes, the walls aren’t straight
and are made of cinderblocks (…)—and on top of that, the houses are
expensive.”
Whereas (13a) is totally coherent, (13b) is perceived as incoherent or unacceptable, because
its last utterance flouts the constraints imposed by the DM. Indeed, instead of following
and reinforcing the orientation of the previous segments, the last utterance adds a point for
an opposite conclusion:16
it’s oriented to a positive pole, flouting the constraints imposed
by the DM:
Discourse Markers  447
(13b)  # Rebentam as canalizações, as portas não têm todas o mesmo tamanho, as paredes são
tortas e feitas de blocos de cimento (…)—e ainda por cima são baratas.
“# The plumbing bursts, the doors are different sizes, the walls aren’t straight and
are made of cinderblocks (…)—and on top of this, the houses are cheap.”
To sum up, when considering the class of elaborative DMs, two promising lines for future
research have emerged: the interactions between the connectives and specific discourse
types, and the need to clearly define what the specific constraints are that each DM imposes
on its linguistic environment.
3.2.  Contrastive DMs
This broad category, pervasive in the literature, is not easy to define within the framework of
discourse coherence, since there is no consensus in the linguistic community on the defini-
tion of the discourse relation “Contrast.” My attempt is to fine‐tune it, showing that it encom-
passes two distinct discourse relations: counterargument,17
on the one hand, and contrast
between two comparable situations, on the other. To tackle the issue, two main subclasses
of DMs will be delimited in this subsection: counterargumentative DMs and contrastive–
comparative ones.
3.2.1.  Counterargumentative DMs
This first subclass includes, in Portuguese, porém “however,” contudo (literally “with‐
all,” meaning “however”), todavia (literally”all‐the‐way,” meaning “nonetheless,
­nevertheless”), no entanto (literally “in‐the‐ meanwhile,” meaning “nonetheless, never-
theless”), não obstante “notwithstanding.” These DMs typically introduce an utterance
that suppresses an inference triggered by the previous discourse segment. See the
­following example:
(14)  A Maria fuma muito. Contudo, não tem problemas de saúde.
“Maria is a heavy smoker. However, she does not have health problems.”
In (14), contudo instructs the hearer 
/ 
reader to process the content of the second segment
(A Maria não tem problemas de saúde) as contrasting with an expected inference (A Maria tem
problemas de saúde “Maria has health problems”), activated by the content of the first segment
(A Maria fuma muito). The expected inference is warranted by a pragmatic presupposition,
based on shared world knowledge (that usually, heavy smokers have health problems).
Therefore, in (14), the speaker states that Maria is a heavy smoker and she does not have
health problems, and implies that the second situation is unexpected, given the information
expressed in the first utterance.
The DM contudo may, in general, be replaced by: porém, todavia, no entanto, não obstante and
mas. However, mas may co‐occur with the other DMs (mas, contudo… / mas, todavia… / mas, no
entanto…) This co‐occurence with mas (“but”), being redundant, has an emphatic effect,
stressing the intended instruction. Contrary to mas, with a fixed initial position, the other
contrastive DMs have a certain mobility within their host utterance, as the following exam-
ples illustrate:
(14a) A Maria fuma muito; não tem, no entanto / contudo, problemas de saúde.
(14b) A Maria fuma muito; não tem problemas de saúde, no entanto / contudo.
448  Ana Cristina Macário Lopes
Empirical data provide evidence that the same set of Portuguese DMs may often be found in
quite different discourse configurations, paradigmatically illustrated by (15):
(15) O João é criativo; no entanto, não é responsável.
“João is creative; nevertheless, he is not responsible.”
What differentiates (14) from (15) is the fact that in (15) the second utterance does not sup-
press an inference activated by the former one. In fact, the first statement does not trigger
the inference that João is not a responsible person, since there is no pragmatic presupposi-
tion that warrants this inference. Still, the procedural meaning of no entanto involves the
search for a contrast, in the interpretation process. The relevant question to ask, in this case
is, in which context is it appropriate to utter (15)? Imagine a context where the discourse
topic is João’s chances of getting a job. In such a context, the first segment may trigger the
inference that he will get it, but the second segment triggers the opposite inference, that is,
he will not get it. This second inference is presented as the one that should prevail, thus
constraining the continuation of discourse.18
Using Ducrot’s terminology, the two seg-
ments in (15) are argumentatively anti‐oriented, i.e., each one is an argument for opposite
conclusions, and the second segment has a stronger argumentative weight. Thus the target
of the contrast signalled by the DM involves the inferences activated by the two related
segments, given the appropriate discourse context.
In any case, counterargumentative DMs always encode an instruction of contrast: either a
contrast between an inference read off from the first segment and the propositional content
of the second segment, as in (13), or a contrast between the inferences triggered by the two
related discourse segments, as in (14).19
3.2.2.  Contrastive–comparative DMs
This second subset involves DMs like ao invés (literally “on the reverse,” meaning “on the
contrary”), ao contrário (“on the contrary”), pelo contrário (literally “by the contrary,” meaning
“quite the contrary”),20
já (literally “already,” meaning”whereas”), enquanto que “while,” ao
passo que “whereas,” which signal an antithetical contrast between two comparable situations,
as is shown in (16) and (17):
(16) O João é baixo. Ao invés, / Pelo contrário, / Já o irmão é alto.
“João is short. In contrast, his brother is tall.”
(17)  Pior sorte teve o brigadeiro da Força Aérea Lami Dozo, que viu a sua pena de oito anos
agravada para doze. Ao invés, o almirante Jorge Anaya viu a sua reduzida de 14 para
12 anos.
“The airforce officer Lami Dozo was not so lucky as his sentence was increased from
eight years to twelve. In contrast, the admiral Jorge Anayu had his sentence reduced
from fourteen to twelve years.”
In (16) and (17), the speaker compares two individuals, highlighting their dissimilarities.
Notice that the predicates of the two segments related by the connective have to belong to
the same conceptual domain, i.e., they have to encode opposite values of the same under-
lying property. The relevance of this restriction becomes clear if we compare the unaccept-
ability of (18) with the full acceptability of (16):
(18) # A Inês é alta. O irmão, ao invés, é inteligente.
“# Inês is tall. Her brother, on the contrary, is clever.”
The fact that baixo and alto specify opposite values of a more abstract property (the gradable
property “height”) licenses the occurrence of ao invés / pelo contrário/já in (16); example (18)
is odd because there is no single scale underlying baixa (“short”) and inteligente (“clever”).
Discourse Markers  449
It is thus clear that these DMs impose strong semantic constraints on their environement.
Typically, they are appropriate in contexts where two individuals are associated with two
opposite predicates, lexically marked as contrary or contradictory. But it is worth noticing
that other peripheral contexts of use are also acceptable, as is shown in the following
example:21
(19)  A Ana foi fazer ski. Ao invés, o irmão foi ao cinema.
“Ana went skiing, whereas her brother went to the cinema.”
(19) is appropriate in a context where only two possibilities, in exclusive disjunction, are
taken into consideration: skiing or going to the cinema, two possible specifications of a
more abstract predicate, related with free‐time activities. Such a context licenses the
interpretation of skiing and going to the movies as contradictory terms, and, conse-
quently, the contrastive comparison reading may be preserved. Therefore, if the con-
straints imposed by the connective are compatible or, at least, not inconsistent with
world knowledge or background assumptions, the construction is still acceptable in
Portuguese.
3.3.  Conclusive DMs
The Portuguese DMs logo “therefore,” portanto “so,” por conseguinte “consequently,”
­
por  consequência “in consequence,” então “then,” assim (literally “in this way,”
meaning”hence,” “thus”) signal that the segment they typically introduce is to be read as a
conclusion (or a logical consequence) inferred from what was previously said. In other
words, the first utterance provides grounds for drawing the conclusion expressed in
the second one:22
(20)  O carro está estacionado em frente da garagem; portanto / logo / por conseguinte, a Maria está
em casa.
“The car is parked in front of the garage. Therefore, Maria is at home.”
However, free commutation is not possible with all the DMs mentioned above, as the dialog-
ical exchange in (21) illustrates:
(21) A:  O carro está estacionado em frente da garagem.
B: Então / # Portanto, deve estar alguém em casa.
Então is acceptable in dialogical contexts like (21), where speaker B does not commit
him‐ / herself to the truth of A’s statement. Então signals that the conclusion drawn by B is
based on a hypothetic premiss (if the car is parked, then…), contrary to what happens in
(20), where the speaker commits him‐/herself to the truth of what he/she says in his/her
intervention: it is because he / she knows that the car is parked in front of the garage that
he / she deduces that Maria is at home. Therefore, portanto introduces a conclusion based
on a fact, whereas então introduces a conclusion based on a conditional premiss. That is
why então is the Portuguese connective selected to introduce the apodosis of conditional
constructions (22):
(22)  Se x for sinónimo de y, então / *portanto y é sinónimo de x.
“If x is a synonym of y, then y is synonymous with x”
Conclusive DMs can be fully characterized within the theoretical framework of discourse
relations. But this brief discussion on the restrictions of use of portanto and então emphasizes
the fact that research on the specific constraints each one imposes on the semantic profile of
the utterances they connect has to be carried out to fully describe the appropriate use of each
conclusive DM.23
450  Ana Cristina Macário Lopes
3.4.  Justificative DMs
Pois “for,” porque “for, because,” and que “for, because” are the prototypical DMs which in
Portuguese introduce an utterance providing a justification as to why the speaker has uttered
the first segment, but visto que, dado que, and uma vez que “since, given that” may also fulfil
the same function. See the following example:
(23) Deve estar gente em casa, pois / visto que as luzes estão acesas.
“There must be someone at home, for/since the lights are on.”
In (23), the first segment is a deduced assertion, clearly marked by the modal verb dever, and
the second segment expresses the evidence on which the deduction was based. The speaker
advances the second discourse segment as an attempt to justify his / her first claim, in order
to convince the listener of its credibility. Constructions with justificative DMs mirror con-
structions with conclusive ones. In fact, both (20) and (23) express an inferential reasoning
and both involve two assertive speech acts with different, though interdependent functions:
in (20), the first act expresses the evidence and the second one the claim drawn from it; in
(23), the first act expresses the speaker’s claim, and the second one, designed to justify that
claim, provides the evidence that supports it. Justificative DMs may also introduce an utter-
ance that justifies an order, or a question, as the following examples illustrate:
(24)  Despacha‐te, que são horas de ires para a escola!
“Hurry up, because it’s time to go to school!”
(25) Estás com muita pressa? É que preciso urgentemente de falar contigo.
“Are you in a hurry? Because I need to talk to you, urgently.”
In Portuguese, the illocutionary status of the first discourse segment constrains the choice of
the justificative DM: que is typically used after an order while é que is used after a question.
3.5.  Reformulative DMs
Reformulation is a metadiscourse relation (Roulet 1987, Rossari 1994, a.o.), by which the
speaker rephrases an utterance in order to facilitate the understanding of what s/he actually
means, to reduce possible communicative misunderstandings or even to correct what s/he
has said. This definition is focused on cases of self‐reformulation, but there are also cases of
hetero‐reformulation, in dialogical discourse, when the hearer restates a previous interven-
tion (or part of it) on behalf of the original speaker, always with a cooperative intention and
typically to confirm comprehension. Cases of hetero‐reformulation will not be considered in
this chapter.
Within the class of reformulative DMs, a more fine‐grained subtypology is required: some
of them signal, roughly speaking, an equivalence between the original utterance and the
restated one (paraphrastic reformulative DMs); others signal a dissociation between the two
utterances, showing that the speaker fully reconsiders his/her first formulation and substi-
tutes it by a new one (non‐paraphrastic reformulative DMs, here labeled corrective DMs).24
The issue of whether summary DMs like em suma “in sum, to sum up,” em síntese “in short,”
numa palavra “in a word,” enfim (literally “at last,” meaning “in short,” “briefly,” “to sum
up”) may indeed be characterized as reformulative DMs, as claimed by some authors (Roulet
2006, Zorraquino and Portolés 1999), will be discussed at the end of this section.
3.5.1.  Paraphrastic reformulative DMs
In Portuguese, the main paraphrastic reformulative DMs are ou seja (literally “or be Subj,”
meaning “that is”), quer dizer (literally “(one) wants to‐say,” meaning “I mean”), isto é, “that
Discourse Markers  451
is”; but this subclass also includes expressions like por outras palavras (literally “by other
words,” meaning “in other words”), noutros termos (literally “in other terms,” meaning “in
other words”). The core meaning, or the instruction, encoded by this set of DMs, may be
roughly glossed by “interpret the following utterance as a better alternative formulation of
the preceding one.”
Let us see two examples where paraphrastic reformulative DMs occur:
(26) Até já se consegue fazer ali vida de cidade, quer dizer, já há o anonimato que há nas cidades.
“You can even have the same life there as in the city, that is, there is already the same
anonymity that there is in the cities.”
(27)  (…) uma sondagem deve ser feita junto de uma amostra representativa da população, isto é,
a proporção de homens e mulheres na amostra deve ser idêntica à que se regista a nível
nacional.
“A survey should be done with a sample that is representative of the population, in
other words, the proportion of men and women in the sample should be identical to
that of the national population.”
As the examples show, the segment introduced by the DMs does not repeat, in exactly the
same way, the content of the first segment, which means that strict semantic equivalence is
hardly ever the case. It only occurs in contexts of translation, definition or gloss. In the vast
majority of cases, these DMs head a restatement whose role is to facilitate the hearer’s under-
standing of the original, and this goal is achieved through the clarification of the content of
the previous utterance.
3.5.2.  Corrective DMs
This subclass involves DMs which encode a corrective or rectificative instruction, thus sig-
nalling that the speaker intends to correct some aspect of his 
/ 
her previous utterance. In
these cases, the rephrased content is taken by the speaker as the only valid information for
the continuation of discourse. The Portuguese DMs that prototypically encode this instruction
are (ou) melhor “or better,” ou antes “or rather,” (ou) mais exactamente, (ou) mais correctamente,
(ou) mais precisamente “(or) more exactly / correctly / precisely,” aliás (from Latin alias “in
another way,” meaning “or better”). But quer dizer, ou seja and isto é, mentioned in the
previous subsection, may also fill this function: their polyfunctionality depends on the
propositional content of the two related segments. Examples are provided below:
(28) Toda a gente toma calmantes. Eu devo dizer que não tomo! Ou antes, tomo raríssimas vezes.
“Everybody takes tranquilizers. I never do. Or rather, it’s very rare.”
(29) A pornografia é uma invenção masculina. A prostituição é uma coisa masculina, não há
pornografia ou prostituição para as mulheres. Quer dizer, só há para uma minoria.
“Pornography is a masculine invention. Prostitution is a masculine thing, there is no
pornography or prostitution for women. That is to say (‘or rather’), there is only for a
minority.”
3.6.  Summary DMs
DMs like em suma “to sum up,” em resumo, em síntese “in short,” enfim “briefly,” numa palavra
“in a word” signal that the next utterance is to be read as a summary of the information
expressed in previous utterances. If we consider that a summary involves a shorter restate-
ment or reformulation of the content of previous discourse units, then the markers that
encode an instruction of summary may be included as a subclass in the broad class of refor-
mulative DMs.25
Furthermore, it is relevant to note that these DMs, unlike the paraphrastic
452  Ana Cristina Macário Lopes
and corrective ones, display an extra function: in fact, they also signal that the next utterance
is the final part of a discourse sequence on a common topic. Therefore, they could also be
included in the class of discourse‐structuring DMs, discussed in the next subsection. The
overlapping of the two functions proves, once again, the polyfunctionality of DMs, which is
a real obstacle to discrete class definitions.
3.7.  Discourse‐structuring DMs
According to the main criterion adopted in this chapter to delimit DMs classes, it is hardly
tenable to postulate a class of discourse‐structuring DMs, since none of the more relevant
theoretical frameworks on discourse relations contemplate the material structure of
discourse or text. In fact, there is a quite consensual distinction between semantic (content‐
level or subject‐matter) discourse relations and pragmatic (illocutionary‐level or presenta-
tional) ones, but discourse coherence as such does not seem dependent on instructions
about the speaker’s strategy of discourse planning. However, it is undeniable that there
are items, usually referred to as DMs, which occur typically in written texts and in in
formal and public oral genres, that have a relevant function in terms of structuring the
information throughout the discourse: para começar “to begin with” opens a discourse
sequence, depois “then” signals continuity, por fim “lastly 
/ 
finally” marks the end of the
sequence. Other items with similar functions are: em primeiro lugar, primeiro “firstly,” em
segundo / terceiro… lugar, segundo / terceiro “secondly,” “thirdly”…, a seguir “then,” em último
lugar, por último, finalmente “and finally,” para concluir “to conclude.” Here is an example:
(30)  Pensei falar em primeiro lugar sobre Portugal e a construção da Europa; a seguir, sobre o papel
do Estado e dos agentes económicos e sociais; depois, sobre a educação e os recursos humanos;
finalmente, sobre a responsabilidade dos cristãos na construção da Europa.
“Firstly, I will speak about Portugal and the construction of Europe; then, about the
role of the state and the economic and social agents; afterwards, about education and
human resources and finally, about the responsibility of Christians in the construction
of Europe.”
The same items are also quite productive in ordering arguments supporting the same claim,
within an argumentative discourse sequence (31):
(31) Não faz sentido acusar a reforma de ser uma cedência do “português” ao “brasileiro”:
primeiro, porque o Brasil é de longe o principal “dono” da língua; depois, porque as mudanças
são bilaterais; por último, porque na falta de unificação ortográfica será a norma brasileira a
impor‐se, dado o maior peso populacional do país.
“It makes no sense to say that the reform is a capitulation of “European Portuguese”
to “Brazilian Portuguese”: firstly, because Brazil is by far the principal “owner” of the
language, secondly, because the changes are bilateral and finally, because in the
absence of a joint orthography the Brazilian norm will triumph, given the greater
critical mass of the country’s population.”
Even though they do not signal any semantic or pragmatic discourse relation, they still have
a role in the construction of discourse, providing some kind of connection in the domain of
the material structure of text or discourse, organizing and ordering the discourse constitu-
ents. In line with Redecker (2006) and Pons Bordería (2006), I assume that another level of
discourse has to be taken into consideration to encompass the functions of this subset of
DMs. Therefore, I argue that they operate on the sequential structure of discourse, marking
the beginning, the continuation or the end of a sequence—in a word,“displaying” the
processes of text or discourse presentation.
Discourse Markers  453
4.  Final remarks
In this chapter it has been assumed that DMs are discourse connectives and that they signal
a relation between discourse utterances or segments, thus giving instructions to the
hearer 
/ 
reader on how to integrate them coherently into the mental representation of the
discourse, in the incremental interpretation process. In other words, DMs were analyzed tak-
ing into consideration the role that the utterance they typically preface plays in the discourse
context. The discussion on some classes of DMs was guided by the hypothesis that it should
be possible to establish correlations between DMs and discourse or rhetorical relations. To
some extent, this has proved to be tenable. Our data also validate the distinction between
semantic and pragmatic discourse relations, i.e., relations which articulate the propositional
content of utterances (for instance, elaboration) and relations which operate at the illocu-
tionary level of discourse organisation, relating speech acts (for instance, justification).
However, the discussion about discourse‐structuring DMs clearly showed the need to
consider the organizational aspects of discourse connection, a domain that is not captured
within the frameworks dealing with semantic and pragmatic discourse coherence. In this
way, discourse relations may be valuable tools to delimit prototypical classes of DMs; never-
theless, there is at least one peripheral subset of DMs, the discourse structuring ones, that
cannot be accounted for within theoretical frameworks focused on discourse coherence.
A more thorough and accurate description and explanation of the role of DMs in the building
of discourse is, in my view, highly dependent on further research on hierarchical or modular
models of discourse organisation, both in monological and dialogical discourses (Roulet
2006, Pons Bordería 2006). This line of research would help to address and clarify issues
related with markers whose function is to introduce a (new) topic, to signal topic shifts and
digressions, issues which are not contemplated in this chapter.
Another challenging direction for future research involves the identification and charac-
terization of discourse relations that are created exclusively by the use of a specific (subset
of) DM(s), thus not inferable in its absence. De qualquer modo “anyway,” for instance, is a
paradigmatic example of a DM which articulates two discourse spans, imposing an inter-
pretation that is never available in its absence. Further, the question of whether there is a
­
relevant correlation between types of discourse, discourse genders and specific sets of DMs
remains to be answered.
Concerning future research focused on Portuguese data, a systematic fine‐grained study of
the constraints that each Portuguese DM imposes on its linguistic environment is needed.As was
mentioned before, within each broad class of DMs there are specificities related to the appro-
priate conditions of use of each DM, and this heuristic study is far from being concluded.
Finally, a contrastive study of DMs between Portuguese and other Romance languages is
a direction of research that should not be dismissed.
notes
1	 See Jucker and Ziv (1998), Fraser (1999), and Fisher (2006) for a thorough perspective on the wide
and heterogeneous spectrum of approaches to DMs.
2	 Schiffrin (1987) is a groundbreaking work which inspired many of the subsequent studies on the
functions DMs may fulfil in the management of a conversation. On conversational markers in
Portuguese, see, a.o., Marcuschi (1989), Risso et al. (1996), Rodrigues (1998).
3	 Also refered to in the literature as rhetorical relations (Mann and Thompson (1988), Asher and
Lascarides (2003)), or coherence relations (Knott and Sanders (1998), (Sanders, Spooren and
Nordmann (1992)).
454  Ana Cristina Macário Lopes
4	 CETEMPúblico (www.linguateca.pt) and Corpus de Referência do Português Contemporâneo
(CRPC) (www.clul.ul.pt).
5	 The two following sections build upon Lopes and Carrilho (forthcoming).
6	Needless to say that this property implies that DMs are external elements concerning the syntactic
structure of the sentence.
7	 Within the Relevance Theory framework (Blakemore 1987), procedural meaning is defined as an
instruction on how to compute conceptual representations. As discourse connectives specify the
ways in which information conveyed by an utterance can be contextually relevant, their meaning
can be characterized as procedural.
8	 Cf. studies on grammaticalization of Portuguese DMs: Martelotta (2008), Lima (2002), a.o.
9	 A similar process of grammaticalization undergoes the developement of DMs from adverbs.
10	 See Fisher (2006) for a relevant theoretical discussion on this issue.
11	 For a more comprehensive analysis of the multiple uses of enfim, see Lopes (2008). See also Lopes,
Pezatti and Novaes (2001) on the multifunctionality of portanto in Portuguese.
12	 A similar typology is adopted in Lopes and Carrilho (forthcoming). There are different typologies of
DMs competing in the literature. See, a.o., Martín Zorraquino and Portolés (1999), Bazanella (1995).
13	 Taboada (2006).
14	 Mann and Thompson (1988),Asher and Lascarides (2003), Sanders et al.(1992) are relevant references
in the field. See Taboada (2006) for an empirical study on discourse realations and DMs. See also
Taboada and Mann (2006) for a comprehensive overview of different approaches to discourse
relations.
15	Elaboration is a content or semantic discourse relation (“subject‐matter” in Mann and Thompson
1988’s terminology), in the sense that it relates propositions extensionally interpreted.
16	 Indeed, the best choice in (13b) would be mas (“but”), which shows that the text requires a marker
of contrast to be coherent.
17	 Violation (or Denial) of Expectation is another expression used by some researchers to label this
discourse relation.
18	 See the unacceptability or the oddness of the following discourse continuation: # O João é esperto.
No entanto, não é trabalhador. Vai conseguir entrar na Universidade [# “João is smart. However, he
does not work hard. He will get into university.”]
19	 Agora “Now” may also function, in Portuguese, as a counterargumentative DM (Lopes 1998).
20	 The DM pelo contrário may also signal a different discourse relation in Portuguese, in distinct
discourse configurations. In fact, in dialogues and, more precisely, in reactive refutation moves, the
speaker may express his/her disagreement with his/her interlocutor, rejecting a previous utterance
(or part of it), on the grounds of its falsity or inappropriateness, and adding a segment introduced
by pelo contrário that corrects the target of refutation:
A: 
A situação está a melhorar. [The situation is improving.]
B:  A situação não está a melhorar. Pelo contrário, a situação está cada vez pior!
“The situation is not improving. On the contrary, it is getting worse.”
See Lopes and Sousa (2014) for a thorough analysis of pelo contrário in Portuguese.
21	Example adapted from Rossari (2000).
22	 It is worth stressing that implicit information generally has to be added to the content of the first
segment so that the inference is deduced soundly (Lopes 2009). Details will not be discussed here.
23	 Conclusive DMs may also introduce an order, since it is still possible to retrieve the inferential
reasoning that underlies the connection: São horas de ir para a escola. Portanto, toca a levantar! “It is
time to go to school. So, get out of bed!”
24	 Some researchers (Zorraquino and Portolés 1999, Rossari 1994, Roulet 2006, a.o.) include in the
class of reformulative DMs expressions equivalent to the following Portuguese connectives: de
qualquer modo (literally “of any way,” meaning “anyway”), de qualquer maneira (literally “of any
manner,” meaning “anyway”), em todo o caso “in any case,” seja como for (literally “be‐Subj (it) as (it)
will‐be‐Subj,” meaning “be that as it may, anyway”). Given the definition of reformulation
outlined above, it is hardly consistent to follow their proposal. In fact, these DMs signal that
the speaker distances him‐ / herself from what was previously said and invites the hearer to focus
Discourse Markers  455
his / her attention on the discourse segment they introduce, the one which he / she considers to be
really relevant for the continuation of the discourse. The instruction encoded could be roughly
paraphrased by “dismiss what has been said and read the next utterance as the one which is actu-
ally relevant for discourse continuity.” Using these DMs, the speaker reorients his / her discourse,
foregrounding the information of the segment which hosts them and disqualifying previous
information. See Lopes (2012) for a more detailed description of the DM de qualquer modo in
Portuguese. As far as I know, none of the current typologies of discourse relations incorporates the
one which is encoded by this subset of DMs.
25	 Calling upon Mann and Thompson’s taxonomy, these DMs signal two discourse relations,
Restatement (labeled Reformulation in this chapter) and Summary.
References
Asher, N. and A. Lascarides (2003). Logics of
Conversation. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Bazzanella, C. (1995). I signali discorsivi. In
L. Renzi, G. Salvi, and A. Cardinaletti (eds.),
Grande Grammatical Italiana de Consultazione,
vol. 3. Bologna: Il Mulino, pp. 225–257.
Blakemore, D. (1987). Semantic Constraints on
Relevance. Oxford: Blackwell.
Brinton, L. (1996). Pragmatic Markers in English.
Grammaticalization and Discourse Function.
Berlin: de Gruyter.
Fisher, K. (ed.) (2006). Approach to Discourse
Particles. Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Fraser, B. (1999). What are discourse markers?
Journal of Pragmatics, 31, pp. 931–952.
Fraser, B. (1990). An approach to discourse
markers. Journal of Pragmatics 14, pp. 383‐395.
Hansen, M.‐B. M. (1998). The Functions of
Discourse Particles. A Study with Special
Reference to Spoken French. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Jucker, A. and Y. Ziv (1998). Discourse Markers:
Descriptions and Theory. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Knott, A. and R. Dale (1994). Using linguistic
phenomena to motivate a set of coherence
relations. Discourse Processes, 18, pp. 35–62.
Knott, A. and T. Sanders (1998). The classification
of coherence relations and their linguistic
markers: an exploration of two languages.
Journal of Pragmatics, 30, pp. 135–175.
Lima, J. P. de (2002). Grammaticalization,
subjectivation and the origin of phatic
markers. In I. Wischer and G. Diewald (eds.),
New Reflections on Grammaticalization.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins, pp. 363–378.
Lopes, A. C. M. (1998). Contribuição para o
estudo semântico‐pragmático de agora. Revista
Portuguesa de Filologia, vol. XXII, pp. 363–376.
Lopes, A. C. M. (2008). Enfim. Estudos
Linguísticos/Linguistic Studies, 2, pp. 61–76.
Lopes, A. C. M. (2009). Justification: a coherence
relation. Pragmatics, 19 (2), pp. 223–239.
Lopes, A. C. M. (2012). A polifuncionalidade das
expressões de qualquer modo e de outro modo em
PEC. In A. Costa and I. Duarte (eds.), Nada na
Linguagem lhe é Estranho. Estudos de Homenagem
a Isabel Hub Faria. Porto: Edições
Afrontamento, pp. 79–92.
Lopes, A. C. M., E. Pezatti, and N. Novaes (2001).
As construções com portanto no Português
Europeu e no Português Brasileiro. Scripta,
5 (9), pp. 203–218.
Lopes, A. C. M. and E. Carrilho (forthcoming)
Discurso e marcadores discursivos. In E. P.
Raposo, M. F. B. do Nascimento, M. A. C. da
Mota, L. Seguro, and A. Mendes (eds.),
Gramática do Português, vol. 3. Lisbon:
Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian.
Lopes, A. C. M. and S. Sousa (2014). The
discourse connectives ao invés and pelo
contrário in European Contemporary
Portuguese. Journal of Portuguese Linguistics,
13 (1), pp. 3–28.
Mann, W. and S. Thompson (1988). Rhetorical
structure theory: towards a functional theory
of text organization. Text, 8, pp. 243–281.
Marcuschi, L. A. (1989). Marcadores
conversacionais no português brasileiro:
formas, posições e funções. In A. T. Castilho
(ed.), Português Falado Culto no Brasil.
Campinas: Editora da Unicamp, pp. 281–322.
Martelotta, M. (2008). Gramaticalização de
conectivos portugueses: uma trajectória do
espaço para o texto. Estudos Linguísticos/
Linguistic Studies, 2, pp. 41–60.
Martín Zorraquino, M. A. and J. Portolés (1999).
Los marcadores del discurso. In I. Bosque and
V. Demonte (eds.), Gramática Descriptiva de la
456  Ana Cristina Macário Lopes
Lengua Española, vol. 3. Madrid: Espasa Calpe,
pp. 4051–4203.
Pons Bordería, S. (2006). A functional approach to
the study of discourse markers. In K. Fisher
(ed.), Approaches to Discourse Particles.
Amsterdam: Elsevier, pp. 77–100.
Redecker, G. (2006). Discourse markers as
attentional cues at discourse transitions.
In K. Fisher (ed.), Approaches to Discourse
Particles. Amsterdam: Elsevier, pp. 339–358.
Risso, M. S., G. O. Silva, and H. Urbano (1996).
Marcadores discursivos: traços definidores. In
I. Koch (ed.), Gramática do Português Falado, vol.
VI. Campinas: Editora da Unicamp, pp. 21–61.
Rodrigues, I. (1998). Sinais Conversacionais de
Alternância de Vez. Porto: Granito Editores e
Livreiros.
Rossari, C. (1994). Les Opérations de Reformulation.
Bern: Peter Lang.
Rossari, C. 2000 Connecteurs et relations de
discours: des liens entre cognition et signification.
Nancy: Presses Universitaires de Nancy.
Rossari, C. (2006). Formal properties of a subset
of discourse markers: connectives. In K. Fisher
(ed.), Approaches to Discourse Particles.
Amsterdam: Elsevier, pp. 299–314.
Roulet, E. 1987 L’intégration des mouvements
discursifs et le rôle des connecteurs interactifs
dans une approche dynamique de la
construction du discours monologique.
Modèles linguistiques, 9, pp. 19–31.
Roulet, E. (2006). The description of text relation
markers in the Geneva model of discourse
organization. In K. Fisher (ed), Approach to
Discourse Particles. Amsterdam: Elsevier,
pp. 115–132.
Roulet, E., A. Auchlin, J. Moeschler, C. Rubattel,
and M. Schelling (eds.) (1985). L’articulation du
Discours en Français Contemporain. Bern: Peter
Lang.
Sanders, T., W. Spooren, and L. Noordman
(1992). Towards a taxonomy of coherence
relations. Discourse Processes, 15, pp. 1–35.
Schiffrin, D. (1987). Discourse Markers.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Schorup, L. 1985 Common discourse particles in
English conversation: like, well, y’know. New
York: Garland.
Taboada, M. (2006). Discourse markers as signals
(or not) of rhetorical relations. Journal of
Pragmatics, 38, pp. 576–592.
Taboada, M. and W. Mann (2006). Rhetorical
structure theory: looking back and moving
ahead. Discourse Studies, 8 (6), pp. 423–459.
Traugott, E. (1995). The role of the development
of discourse markers in a theory of
grammaticalization. http://citeseerx.ist.psu.
edu/viewdoc/download;jsessionid=19AD7FC
49EB38EF428953EA892BFC96A?doi=10.1.1.89.
2536&rep=rep1&type=pdf .
Traugott, E. and R. Dasher (2002). Regularity in
Semantic Change. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Zorraquino, M. and Portolés, J. (1999). Los
marcadores del discurso. In I. Bosque and
V. Demonte (eds.) Gramática descriptiva de la
lengua española. Tmo III, Madrid:
Espasa Calpe.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
The present chapter explores the main phonological changes that characterize the linguistic
evolution of Portuguese from Latin, with special attention to those that distinguish it from
its neighbors, although as a descendant of Latin, Portuguese shares many traits with its
Romance language sisters, particularly in the Iberian Peninsula.
The chapter is organized as follows: Section 2 treats various issues related to the evolution
of syllable structure from Late Spoken Latin through Hispano‐Romance to Modern
Portuguese. This will include treatment of (inter‐)related phenomena that affect segments,
both individually and in combination, of vowels and consonants, including some that occur
only sporadically. Section 3 further addresses salient characteristics of the vocalic system.
Section 4 treats morphophonological issues of grammaticalization, contraction and prosody
that characterize Portuguese in contrast to other Romance varieties. Section 5 offers a brief
conclusion.
2.  Syllable structure, sonority and moras: Their interaction
in Latin, Hispano‐Romance and Galician/Portuguese,
and consequences for consonantal inventories
Arguably, changes related to syllable structure that affect Late Spoken Latin drive most other
phonological changes in Hispano‐Romance and Galician/Portuguese.1
Specifically, under
a moraic approach to the syllable (Hayes 1989), and by understanding both the role of
sonority in syllable structure (Clements 1990) and the relationship between the sonority of a
segment and its mora‐bearing status (Zec 1995), the shape of the syllable and the behavior of
its constituents (particularly in the rime, or intervocalically) may be analyzed as intimately
interconnected.
The most sonorous elements of the syllable are vowels, which occupy the nuclear ­position.
They are prototypical mora‐bearing elements, with simple vowels monomoraic, and long
vowels bimoraic. Latin vowels occurred with one of five qualities and one of two weights,
that is short and long /i e a o u/. At first, phonological weight was realized by means of
longer or shorter duration, and any articulatory differences were negligible, with the short :
long opposition stable. Subsequently, subtle articulatory differences eventually grow and
From Latin to Portuguese:
Main Phonological Changes
D. Eric Holt
25
458  D. Eric Holt
lead to the abandonment of length, and reanalysis of vocal contrast is shifted solely to quality
rather than both quality and quantity (Pulgram 1975); specifically, the phonetic manifesta-
tion of weight as length came to include differences in tongue height and tenseness, and quite
early on, /ī, ū/ began to differ from /ĭ, ŭ/ articulatorily, as did /ē, ō/ from /ĕ, ŏ/. The long
vowels were stable, but the short vowels came to be realized lower and laxer, with the result
that /ĭ, ŭ/ opened to [ɪ, ʊ], and /ĕ, ŏ/ opened to [ε, ɔ]. The eventual result is the merger of
Latin /ĭ, ŭ/ and /ē, ō/, since their phonological contrast is now realized sufficiently be their
distinct vowel quality, which would be easier to articulate and perceive than vowel duration
(summarized from Lloyd 1987: 71–75, 110–111, and Holt 2003: §1).
This abandonment of weight (mono‐ vs. bimoraic status) as a phonologically independent
feature of vowels yields the vocalic inventory of Hispano‐Romance, which persists in
Galician/Portuguese and Modern Portuguese, /i, e, ε, a, o, ɔ, u/. (Other characteristics of
the vocalic system are treated in Section 3.) And, as discussed below, there are profound con-
sequences for the consonantal system, which leads to the emergence of various identifying
characteristics of Galician/Portuguese.
Specifically, the lack of phonologically long vowels in Hispano‐Romance suggests that
long consonants may likewise be disfavored, as these are less sonorous elements (see Zec
1995, pursued in Holt 1997, 1999 et seq.). Systemic parity or balance in this regard is ­recovered
by the gradual elimination of the moraic status of consonants, which took place according to
the sonority of the segment in question. Consequently, Latin geminate obstruents (including
secondary ones that resulted from total assimilation; see below) and syllable‐final velars are
eroded and simplified. The Western Romance term lenition includes some of these changes,
though it usually does not imply necessary changes in syllable‐final (nongeminate) conso-
nants, which are integral to the analysis presented here that links mora‐bearing status in
general with sonority.
The host of changes subsumed by the term lenition are all forms of weakening, in the
sense of becoming less consonantal and more sonorous, that is, acquiring more features
that ­
characterize vowels, [+voice], [+continuant], [+sonorant]. These include degemina-
tion (by loss of mora) of intervocalic/geminate (“long”) consonants (/pp tt kk ss; (rare, bb
dd gg ff)/) (e.g., cuppam, cattus, siccum, cassam > copa “cup,” gato “cat,” seco “dry,” cassa
“empty”); voicing of obstruents (/p t k f s/, e.g., lupum, rotam, lacum, aurificem, casam
> lobo “wolf,” roda “wheel,” lago “lake,” ourives “goldsmith,” casa “house”); and, spiranti-
zation (with not infrequent loss) of voiced obstruents (/b d g/, e.g., iba, pedem, regem >
ia “was going (3p.sg.),” pé “foot,” rei “king”). Instead of viewing this constellation of
changes as sequential (either as a traditional “push”‐ or “pull”‐chain), they may instead be
ī ĭ ū ŭ
ē ě ō ŏ
ā ă
ī ū
ɪ ʊ
ē ō
ɛ ɔ
ā ă
i u
e o
ɛ ɔ
a
Classical Latin Early Spoken Latin Later Spoken Latin
(=Hispano-Romance,
Galician/Portuguese)
Figure 25.1  Evolution of vowel length from Latin to Hispano‐Romance and Galician/Portuguese.
From Latin to Portuguese: Main Phonological Changes  459
viewed as co‐occurring.2
That is, the entire consonantal system may be seen to react to the
reanalysis of vowel quality and length.
In the case of Galician/Portuguese, the effacement of voiced intervocalic single conso-
nants, which are targeted due to their [−cont] status, applies as well to /n, l/. In the case of
the nasal, the so‐called nasal vowels result (e.g., manu > mão “hand”; see also Section 3),3
and
in the case of the lateral, there is total loss between vowels (e.g., caelum > céu “sky”).4
Syllable‐finally, the (nongeminate) dorsal consonants /k, g/ are similarly affected—these
segments undergo featural changes that prolong their ability to bear a mora and occur
­
independently in the coda (that is, without assimilation to a following onset consonant). The
result is the formation of higher‐sonority glides, either palatal [j] or labio‐velar [w], depend-
ing on the nature of the surrounding segments (e.g., octo, actor, integru > oito “eight,”
autor “author,” enteiro “whole”).5
Similarly, while not an obstruent, lateral [l] likewise
­
vocalizes in coda position due to its [−cont] status (e.g., multu > muito “many”; alteru >
outro “other,” with raising of [a]).
Remaining syllable‐final consonants lose their independence as well, and geminate
obstruents result from assimilation to the following consonant (e.g., ursum, ipse, captus >
osso “bear,” isse “self,” cattus “siezed, caught”). These segments undergo not featural
change, per se, but structural change (total assimilation, thus being licensed in syllable‐final
position due to their concomitant onset position) to persist in the language, though these
secondary geminates likewise simplified along with the Latin primary geminates. When
such accommodating changes are not possible, like word‐finally, segments are typically lost,
e.g., the morphological endings –m and –t.
The more sonorous geminates /nn, ll/ endured longer, but eventually lose their moraic
status as well, and with no imperative to avoid merger with /‐n‐, ‐l‐/, since these have been
previously lost (in contrast with the case of Old Spanish; see Holt 2003), result in singleton
n, l (e.g., annum > ano “year,” bello > belo “beautiful”). Thus, noncontinuants are no longer
permitted syllable‐finally or as geminates in intervocalic position, as these both require
moraic status. In the end, the drive to eliminate consonantal moraicity in its entirety has
reshaped the consonantal system, and the result of these leniting processes is a consonantal
inventory that no longer shows an imbalance of mora‐bearing segments.
Additional changes in syllable structure occur that lead to a more symmetrically dis-
persed inventory of consonants. The loss of moraic consonants means that the number and
type of consonant‐consonant sequences is reduced, as there are no longer geminates, and
syllable‐final consonants have been eroded as well. Other cases of CC are likewise affected
and reduced or simplified.6
Specifically, in onset position, a new palatal series emerges (/ɲ ʎ
ʃ ʒ/), resulting indirectly from a change in accent type with loss of hiatus that leads to
formation of a glide (“yod”) from Latin (now asyllabic) /i, e/; this yod then influences the
articulation of a preceding consonant, yielding palatalization, and a simpler onset to the syl-
lable: nasal /ɲ/ (e.g., seniorem “older” > senjor > senhor “lord, mister”; vinea > vinia > vinja
> vinha “vine(yard)”); lateral /ʎ/ (e.g., allium > aljo > alho “garlic”; mulierem > muljer >
mulher “woman”; folia > folja > folha “leaf, sheet”; see further below for an additional source
of /ʎ/); (alveo‐)palatal /ʃ/ (e.g., bassium > baixo “low”; passionem > paixão “passion”), and
along with the lenition as described above, /ʒ/ (e.g., basium > beijo “kiss”; caseum > queijo
“cheese”); additional cases of /ʒ/ come from the effect of yod on /d/ and /g/: hodie > hoje
“today,” video > vejo “see (1p.sg.)”; fugio > fujo “flee (1p.sg.).” Yod affects the voiceless
n > Ø (manum >mão “hand”) nn>n (annum>ano “year”)
l > Ø (caelum >céu “heaven”) ll>l (bello>belo “beautiful”)
Figure 25.2  Evolution of Latin short /n, l/ and long /nn, ll/.
460  D. Eric Holt
stops /t, k/ by assibilating them to /ts/ (e.g., fortiam > força “force,” tertiarium > terceiro
“third,” bracchium > braço “arm”), which in leniting contexts yields expected /dz/ (e.g.,
rationem > razão “reason,” judicium > juizo “judge”). (Most examples from Williams 1962.)
While onset coronals and velars underwent palatalization rather easily and apparently
earlier, labials did not, or at least, the greater markedness of these sounds seems to have led
to their later creation and then differential resolution and simplification, often involving
metathesis (which also affected s, r; see also discussion of sporadic sound changes further
below). Examples include sapiat > saiba “know (subjunctive, 1, 3p.sg.)”; rabiam > raiva
“rage,” with attested ravha seemingly indicating an intermediate palatalized form; and
there are attestations of forms such as cambhar “to change,” limpho “clean,” mho/a(s) “my.”
(See Pensado Ruiz 1986 for exhaustive discussion, as well as Holt 2004.)
An additional case of onset simplification comes from that of voiceless consonant+l (the so‐
called muta cum liquida clusters), which also frequently yield palatals, usually /ʎ/ ­
medially (e.g.,
oculum > olho “eye,” auriculam > orelha “ear,” apiculam > abelha “bee,” regulam > relha
“plowshare”), as well as /tʃ/ word‐initially (e.g., plorare > chorar “to cry,” flammam > chama
“flame,” clauem > chave “key”) or medially following a consonant (e.g., inflare > encher
“inflate,” ma(n)cula > mancha “stain,” sarculare > sachar “to hoe,” masculum > macho “male,
macho”). The processes by which these changes take place are as follows: first, it is in the c+l
sequences (and less frequently, g+l sequences) where the changes are thought to have initiated,
that is, the /l/ comes to retract its articulation toward the velar region where /k, g/ are pro-
duced,andthisassimilationyields[kʎ],andmorevariably,[gʎ](e.g.,speculum>espelho“mirror,”
tegula > telha “tile,” vs. glattire > latir “beat”). This palatal realization of l is then generalized
by analogy to labial+l sequences (e.g., scopulum > escôlho “cliff, crag,” tribulum > trilho “rail”).
This assimilation may be understood as a giving up of independence of the liquid; that is,
the l in these sequences approximates the place of articulation of the velar, in some sense
­
simplifying the sequence, and the spread by analogy to other consonants also represents a
simplification or reduction of the possible realizations of C+l sequences. While the sequencing
is simplified, the articulatory result is complex, and subsequently the initial consonant is lost,
yielding /ʎ/, and this is what we find in the written record (olho “eye,” coalho “curd,” etc.).
In strong positions, the evolution follows a slightly different path. That is, both word‐­
initially and medially after a consonant (where that consonant has assimilated to the C,
further anchoring it and shielding it from simplification), the /Cʎ/ undergoes additional
assimilatory changes, with the voicelessness of the C coming to devoice the now‐palatal l;
the phonetic result is a sequence that is very similar acoustically to [tʃ], and which is then
reanalyzed as ch, which occurs in the earliest written records (e.g., chorar “to cry,” chama
“flame,” chave “key”; encher “to inflate,” mancha “stain”; also medial in Spanish hinchar,
­mancha, but cf. initial llorar, llama, llave). (See Holt 1998, 2000, 2007 for fuller analysis and
additional references.) The HR and GP sibilants subsequently underwent a host of changes
/ɲ/ (<[nj])
/ʎ/ (<[lj])
/ʃ/ (<[sj])
/ʒ/ (<[sj] in leniting/voicing contexts; also < /d/, /g/ + yod)
/ts/ (</t, k/ + yod)
/dz/ (</t, k/ + yod in leniting/voicing contexts)
Figure 25.3  Emergence of new palatal series (/ɲ ʎ ʃ ʒ/) and affricates (/ts, dz/).
From Latin to Portuguese: Main Phonological Changes  461
(see Williams 1962: 63, 79–80, Penny 1991: 22–23), providing a further example of simplifica-
tion or reduction of complexity: ch deaffricated to /ʃ/ around 1700 (yielding the current
pronunciation of words like chave as [ʃave]), and (by 1500) /ts/ and /dz/ become /s/ and
/z/ (e.g., força “force,” razão “reason”).
A change that further improves the sonority cycle of the syllable (see Clements 1990) by
maximizing the cline from onset to nucleus is that of the strengthening of initial asyllabic i, u,
that is, the glides [j, w]. In initial position, /j/ becomes j (/(d)ʒ/, e.g., iustum > justo “just,” cuium
> cujo “whose.” ianuarium > janeiro “January”), and /w/ becomes v (e.g., uacca > vaca “cow,”
uinum > vinho “wine,” videre > ver “to see”), and this makes them more consonant‐like, and
therefore serve better in the role of onset to the syllable as the dispersion in sonority is greater.
The result of this host of changes is the following segmental inventory of consonants,
which shows greater balance and complementarity among consonant types.
A final example of simplification of syllable structure comes from s+C sequences. Just as
many other CC sequences have been altered (e.g., ct > it; ni > nh; li > nh; cl > lh or ch, etc.),
sC likewise undergoes modification (and likely very early on) in such a way as to simplify
syllable structure, again in this case reducing the complexity of the syllable onset. In earlier
Latin these form an onset cluster, but as with other clusters that come to be seen as difficult
to produce, the s in combination comes to be viewed as “impure” (see Lloyd 1987: 148–150,
Penny 1991: 36, and Williams 1962: 6, among many others), and a short i (which later devel-
oped to e) is introduced to support the s in the coda of a newly‐formed preceding syllable
(e.g., stare > estar). The result is that the original C becomes the sole member of the onset.
Furthermore, sonority considerations favor this outcome as well, as this maximizes the
sonority cline of the syllable onset, since an onset sC– presents an anomalous sonority
reversal given the higher sonority of [s] followed by a lower sonority consonant preceding
the sonority peak of the vocalic nucleus. In similar fashion, it is possible that the higher
sonority of [s] (compared to the following consonant) led speakers to analyze it as part of an
anomalous “semi‐syllable” (Penny 1991: 36), and as syllables are headed by a vowel, epen-
thesis occurs to solidify the well‐formedness of the syllable (see also Lloyd 1987: 149).
Several sporadic sounds changes also affect Hispano‐Romance, and these result from
­
situations of phonotactic distress as well. These include dissimilation, consonantal epen-
thesis, progressive nasalization, and metathesis. (See Williams 1962: 102–115 for further
discussion of these and other sporadic changes.)
Cases of dissimilation of consonants include locale > lugar “place,” animam > anma >
alma “soul,” memorare > nembrar > lembrar “to remember,” and similare > semlar > sembrar
“to resemble” (cf. semelhar, from unattested *similiare). These final two also show consonantal
epenthesis, the result of reanalysis following an articulatory mis‐timing between the nasal and
Table 25.1  Hispano‐Romance and Galician/Portuguese consonantal phoneme inventory.
Bilabial Labio‐dental Dental/alveolar Palatal Velar
Plosive p b t d k g
Nasal m n ɲ
Fricative f v s z ʃ ʒ
Affricate ts dz tʃ
Lateral l ʎ
Rhotic ɾ
r
Key: new affricates; new voiced fricatives; new palatals
462  D. Eric Holt
following liquid that leads to the perception of an “intrusive” segment,7
which has the effect of
strengthening the syllable onset. This is also seen in cases like humerum > omro > ombro
“shoulder,” honorare > ondrar “to honor” (old [cf. modern honrar], though perhaps a borrow-
ing from Spanish, where intrusive d is more common, e.g., Sp. pondrá vs. GP porá “will put
(3p.sg.)”). Adifferent type of epenthesis occurs when certain vowels are in hiatus, and an onset
consonant develops that adopts characteristics of neighboring sounds: audire > ouvir “to
hear,” laudat > louva “praise (3p.sg.)”; sedeat > seja “be (subjunctive, 1,3p.sg.),” unam > ũa >
uma “one (fem.)”; vinum > vĩo > vinho “wine,” meam > mia > mĩa > minha “my, mine (fem.).”8
These last examples show progressive nasalization, which is also seen in matrem > mãe
“mother,” ad nocte > ontem “yesterday.” Metathesis involves the reversal of sounds, including
of vowels (e.g., genuculum > geolho > joelho “knee”) or a vowel and a consonant (e.g., inter >
entre “between,” inodium > enojo > enjôo “sickness, boredom”), though more typically of a
consonant and a glide (e.g., sapiat > saiba “know (subjunctive, 1,3p.sg.),” rabiam > raiva
“rage,” primariu > primeiro “first” (with raising of a to e)), or of two consonants, either in
contact (e.g., sib(i)lare > silvar “to whistle”), or at a distance (e.g., parabola > palavra “word”).
Two other noteworthy characteristics of the consonants of Modern Portuguese emerge in
the Renaissance period, in addition to the simplification of the sibilant system discussed
above: the heavy velarization of syllable‐final /‐l/ ([ɫ]) and the retraction and frication of
trilled /r/ in most regions to uvular /ʁ/.
Dissimilation:
l > r (locale > lugar “place”)
n > l (animam > anma > alma “soul”)
Consonantal epenthesis:
mr > mbr (humerum > omro > ombro “shoulder”)
nr > ndr (honorare > ondrar “to honor”)
Anti-hiatic epenthesis:
v (audire > ouvir “to hear”)
j (sedeat > seja “be (subjunctive, 1,3p.sg.)”)
Progressive nasalization (matrem > mãe “mother”)
Metathesis of
vowels (genuculum > geolho > joelho “knee”)
vowel + consonant (inter > entre “between”)
consonant + glide (rabiam > raiva “rage”)
two consonants
in contact (sib(i)lare > silvar “to whistle”)
at distance (parabola > palavra “word”)
m > l (memorare > nembrar > lembrar “to remember”)
m (unam > ua > uma “one (fem.)”)
ɲ (vinum > vı̃o > vinho “wine”)
˜
Figure 25.4  Some sporadic sound changes from Latin to Galician/Portuguese.
From Latin to Portuguese: Main Phonological Changes  463
3.  More on the vocalic system: Oral and nasal vowels
and diphthongs, reduction and metaphony
Returning to vowels, the shared Hispano‐Romance vocalic inventory persists in Galician/
Portuguese and Modern Portuguese: /i, e, ε, a, o, ɔ, u/ occur in stressed position, but in
unstressed position /ε, ɔ/ are lacking, and word‐finally, only /e, a, u/ are common.
This system contrasts with that of Old Spanish in the lack of diphthongized reflexes of
Latin short /e, o/ (/je, we/). This appears to be due to differential Germanic influence in
these two Romance varieties (Meillet 1970: 38). The new intensified stress accent characteristic
of Late Spoken Latin and Hispano‐Romance in the period of Germanic contact and conquest
seems to have occurred later and more slowly in the more remote territory of GP. Additional
phenomena that support this weaker accent (see Williams 1962: 11–13, 53, 56–57, 78, 87–88)
include fewer cases of syncope (cf. GP –ável / –ível vs. Sp. –able / –ible, nebulam > névoa vs. Sp.
niebla “mist, fog,” dubitam > dúvida vs. Sp. deuda “debt,” capitalem > cabedal vs. Sp. caudal
“wealth,” etc.), slower formation of yod and wau (which allows for more occurrence of inter-
vocalic voicing, e.g., saiba vs. Sp. sepa, sepiam > siba “cuttlefish,” etc.), and longer retention of
hiatus (e.g., from versification in the Cancioneiro Geral (1516), the syllabic value of e in forms
like côdea “bark,” fêmea “female”).
There is an extensive system of diphthongs in GP, however, and these come from several
sources, such as the loss of Latin hiatus (e.g., deus > deus “god,” fuit > foi “was (1p.sg.),”
meam > mia (later, minha “my, mine (fem.)”).9
We saw above that the yod formed in these
cases often has a palatalizing or assibilating effect on the preceding consonant: seniorem
“older” > senhor “lord, mister,” mulierem > mulher “woman”; bassium > baixo “low,” basium
> beijo “kiss,” video > vejo “see (1p.sg.),” fugio > fujo “flee (1p.sg.)”; and, fortiam > força
“strength,” rationem > razão “reason.” The loss of a consonant (due to lenition) can also lead
to vowels in contact with resolution into a diphthong, either syllable‐finally (e.g., alterum >
outro “other,” noctem > noite “night”) or intervocalically (e.g., vado > vao > vou “go (1p.
sg.),” malu > mau “bad,” caelu > céu “sky,” magis > mais “more”), and this likewise occurs
when the consonant is lost in the pre‐Modern period: faciles > facees > fáceis “easy (pl.),” sabe-
des > sabees > sabéis “know (2 p.pl.).”
The existence of nasal diphthongs ([ɐȷ̃, õȷ̃, ũȷ̃, ɐ̃w̃]) results from the loss (due to lenition)
of /‐n‐/ or from consonantal loss with progressive nasalization (e.g., mater > mãe “mother,”
ponet > põe “put (3p.sg.),” multum > muito “many, much,” manum > mão “hand”).10
The GP
nasal vowels ([ĩ, ẽ, ɐ̃, õ, ũ]) likewise result from loss of a nasal (e.g., fine > *fĩe > fĩi> fim “end,”
bene > bem “well, good,” bonum > bõo > bom “good,” germana > irmã “sister,” unum > ũu >
um “one (masc.)”). (These, especially [ẽ], may be phonetically diphthongized, especially in
final position.)11
Metaphony (also known as umlaut, inflection, and vowel harmony) is another salient
characteristic of the vocalic system of GP.12
Not all examples of Latin vowels evolved the
u
e o
ɛ ɔ
a
i u
e o
a
e
a
Tonic Atonic Final
i u
Figure 25.5  Inventories of vowels in Galician/Portuguese by position.
464  D. Eric Holt
same way, and this is due to the effect of some neighboring sound. For example, when the
mid vowels /ε, ɔ/ precede a nasal, they become close (e.g., tempus > tempos “time,” quem >
quem “who,” with [ẽ] rather than [ε̃], and pontem > ponte “bridge,” with [õ] rather than [ɔ̃]),
and pre‐tonic /e, o/ fail to raise in sentir “to feel,” vontade “will.” Another example is the
raising effect of wau (e.g., alterum > [awtɾo] > outro, reduced in the sixteenth century to [o])
and of yod (e.g., lactem > [lajte] > leite “milk,” –ariu > [ajro] > –eiro) or other palatal (e.g.,
teneo > tenho “have (1p.sg.),” folia > folha “leaf, sheet,” sedeat > seja “be (subjunctive, 1,3p.
sg.)”). This vocalic interchange ([e~ɛ], [o~ɔ]) is also seen in several morphophonemic
­
alternations, serving to enhance alternations in number (e.g., ovo/ovos “egg(s)”[ovu/ɔvus])
and gender (e.g., novo/nova “new (masc./fem.)” [no.vu/nɔ.va]). (See Nunes 1989, inter alia).
Other vocalic changes occur during the Renaissance period, when a greatly intensified
stress accent developed (Williams 1962: 52–58) that particularly affected unstressed vowels.
This prosodic change leads to the raising of pre‐tonic vowels, such that /a/ > [ɐ], o > [u] and
/e/ > [ɨ], and more extreme reduction, especially with devoicing of final unstressed vowels,
makes them often scarcely perceptible and leads to deletion (e.g., sáb(a)do “Saturday,” côm(o)
do “comfortable,” pêss(e)go “peach,” poder(o)so “powerful,” c(o)rôa “crown,” p(a)ra “for,”
cidad(e) “city,” etc.) This promotes a general tolerance for syllable‐final consonants.
4.  Morphophonology: Contraction, grammaticalization
and prosody
In this section several structural characteristics of Portuguese are treated that interleave ­matters
of phonology and morphology. (See also Ferreira and Holt 2014, as well as Williams 1962 and
Mattoso Camara 1972.)
ĩ ũ
õ
Any vowel + j
Any vowel + w
Nasal vowels Nasal diphthongs Oral diphthongs
ɐj, ɐw
˜ ˜ ˜ ˜
uj
˜ ˜
oj
˜ ˜
ɐ̃
(glide+vowel
diphthongs only in
casual speech)
ɛ ɔ
e
Figure 25.6  Inventory of nasal vowels and nasal and oral diphthongs in Galician/Portuguese.
lactem > [lajte] > leite ‘milk’; alterum > [awtɾo] > outro ‘other’
j w
e o
a
Figure 25.7  Results of assimilatory vowel raising in Galician/Portuguese.
From Latin to Portuguese: Main Phonological Changes  465
First, compared to its Iberian neighbor, in GP (and other related dialects) there is large‐
scale contraction of prepositions with other words. This occurs most frequently with articles
of both genders and numbers with the prepositions a “to,” de “from,” em “in” and por “for,
through” (see Table 25.2); and for de and em, also occurs with demonstratives, pronouns,
adverbs and other forms. (See Table  25.3. Additional archaic contractions are given in
Table 25.4.)
The writing as a single form indicates that these are fused in pronunciation and may be
interpreted as a complex morpheme, and is the result of prosodic merger of the two items.
Segmentally, we observe several of the same phonological adjustments as seen in other
areas of GP phonology and grammar. For instance, do and ao result from the loss of intervo-
calic /‐l‐/ in lo (the archaic article form that emerges historically in Hispano‐Romance from
the Latin demonstratives) with subsequent loss of final unstressed vowels before a vowel‐
initial word: de + lo > de o > do; a + lo > a o > ao; similarly for a + la(s) > a a(s) > à(s), with
merger of identical vowels (like sedere > seer > ser “to be”). (There are also archaic forms
such as mo < me lo.)
For forms with em and por, there is assimilation (n+l > nn, r+l > ll) and simplification, con-
sistent with the discussion of lenition in Section 2. (See Elsman and Holt 2009 for related
discussion and formal analysis.) Additionally, the forms based on em come to lose their initial
vowel (a similar aphaeresis as occurs in apotheca “storeroom (esp. for wine)” > bodega “bar,
tavern”), and in opposition to the plain article o, a, n‐ is reanalyzed as a variant of em, and
combines widely. Historically, a form like nesto is doubly contracted: em esto [ẽ esto] gives
attested éésto (with accent indicating nasality), and em is reintroduced (around 1300), and
with subsequent loss of initial e, becomes nesto (Williams 1962: 146–147).
The archaic article forms (or an assimilated variant) do persist in other cases where l was
not intervocalic, such as when the pronoun follows a verbal form that ends in a consonant or
nasal sound, and is the source of the modern pronominal endings –lo, –no and their inflected
variants. (See Table 25.5.)
A second issue of morphophonology is the evolution of the verbal system of Romance,
where new constructions emerge to express the future tense and conditional mood. These
are based on the use of the infinitival form of a verb along with a present tense form of
auxiliary habere “to have” (eventual future) or an imperfect aspect form of ire “to go”
(eventual conditional), such that comer + he (“to eat I have”) > comerei (“I have to eat,” with
semantic bleaching of obligation but retention of implied futurity to “I will eat”); similarly
for comer + ia (“to eat I was going” > comeria (“I was going to eat,” still used as a future of
the past in the sequencing of tenses, as well as with semantic shift to conditional meaning,
Table 25.2  Contractions of prepositions a, de, em, por + articles.
a “to” de “from” em “in” por “for, through”
o “the (masc.); sg./pl.” ao(s) do no(s) peloa
a “the (fem.); sg./pl.” à(s) da(s) na(s) pela(s)
um “a/one (masc.); sg./pl.” dum (duns) num (nuns)
uma “a/one (fem.); sg./pl.” duma(s) numa(s)
a
 The use of the Latin prepositions per “through” and pro “in front of” (both with metaphorical
extensions) evolves over time. Portuguese por (< pro) comes to take over functions of per, except
in these cases of per + lo > pelo, etc., but cf. the alternative archaic forms polo, etc. in Table 25.4.
See Mattoso Camara 1972: 154–156 for discussion.
466  D. Eric Holt
Table 25.3  Contractions of a, de, em + demonstratives, pronouns, adverbs and other forms.
a “to” de “from” em “in”
estea
“this (masc.); (sg./pl.)” deste(s) neste(s)
esta “this (fem.); (sg./pl.)” desta(s) nesta(s)
esse “that (masc.); (sg./pl.)” desse(s) nesse(s)
essa “that (fem.); (sg./pl.)” dessa(s) nessa(s)
aquele àquela(s) daquele(s) naquel(e)(s)
aquela àquele(s) daquela(s) naquela(s)
isto “this” (neuter) disto nisto
isso “that” (neuter) disso nisso
aquilo “that, those” (neuter) àquilo daquilo naquilo
ele “he; they (masc.)” dele(s) nele(s)
ela “she; they (fem.)” dela(s) nela(s)
aqui “here” daqui
aí “there (near)” daí
ali “(over) there” dali
acolá “(way over) there” dacolá
além “beyond” dalém
aquém “this side” daquém
algures “somewhere” dalgures
antes “before” dantes
onde “where” donde
outro “other (masc.); sg./pl.” doutro(s) noutro(s)
outra “other (fem.); sg./pl.” doutra(s) noutra(s)
outrem “somebody else” doutrem noutrem
algum “some” (masc.); sg./pl.” dalgum (dalguns) nalgum (nalguns)
alguma “some (fem.); sg./pl.” dalguma(s) nalguma(s)
algo “some” nalgo
alguém “somebody” nalguém
a
 These forms also combine with outro, yielding archaic estoutra, essoutros, where only the final
contributing form inflects for feminine gender and plural number. See Williams 1962: 158–159.
Table 25.4  Additional archaic contractions (a, com, por).
a “to” com “with” por “for, through”
o “the (masc.); sg./pl.” ò(s)a
co(s) cò(s) cono(s) polo(s)
a “the (fem.); sg./pl.” coa(s)b
cà(s) cona(s) pola(s)
a
 The grave accent of ò and à indicates a lowered pronunciation. In European Portuguese, à = [a],
and a = slightly raised [ɐ]. In the archaic language, a + o = [ɔ]; later, the contraction adopted is ao
[aw]. See Mattoso Camara 1972: 156–157.
b
 Forms like coa show loss of nasality in hiatus as likewise occurs in arena > *arẽa > areia “sand.”
From Latin to Portuguese: Main Phonological Changes  467
“I would eat”). The morphological and prosodic status of these forms, however, has evolved
over time, and still show a certain ambiguity given the continued separability of the main
verb from these “endings.” For instance, there are ample attestations of so‐called medioclisis
or mesóclise, with weak object pronouns between the verbal forms: e.g., dar te lo ei “give to
you it I will,” dar te lo ia “give to you it I was going.” While parallel forms fell from use from
Old to Modern Spanish, they still obtain in European Portuguese. (See also Ferreira and Holt
2014 and Holt 2004.)
Regarding a final issue that involves prosodic independence, as mentioned in passing
above, the Latin demonstratives develop into the definite articles and the object pronouns
o(s), a(s). The Latin forms are strong, that is, bear stress, but in their new grammaticalized
function, the Hispano‐Romance forms are prosodically weak, depending on neighboring
words,13
with phonology interacting with syntax to determine their placement. This is more
restricted in GP than in neighboring Spanish, and a prominent condition is that these forms
not appear in initial position, and as such are enclitic in most syntactic contexts: Eu esperava
ver‐te “I hoped to see you,” Ela manda‐lhe um livro “She sends him/her a book,” Ele vai levar‐
nos “He is going to take us.” Proclisis is triggered by negation (não o vejo “I don’t see
it/him”), quantifiers (ninguém me compreende “nobody understands me,” alguém a ama
“­
somebody loves me”), wh‐phrases (Quem te deu esse relógio? “Who gave you that watch?”),
contrastive focus (só nós a escrevemos “only we write it (fem.)”) and certain adverbs (Maria
sempre os compra “Maria always buys them”). (See Ferreira and Holt for limited additional
discussion, as well as references to formal approaches to these and related phenomena in
Hispano‐Romance. See Perini 2002: §29, the source of many of these examples, for additional
discussion.)
5. Conclusion
In this chapter, the major phonological changes from Latin to Portuguese were discussed,
highlighting the initial significance of the evolution of syllable structure, including the loss
of contrastive vowel length and the concomitant loss of geminate and many syllable‐final
consonants. A series of inter‐related phenomena ensue that leads to further changes in the
vocalic and consonantal systems, including interactions between the two (e.g., loss of
Table 25.5  Contractions of articles after a consonant.
amá‐lo “to love it/him”(< amar)
amam‐na “they love it/her”
põe‐nas “they put them (fem.)”
quere‐la “want it/her” (< queres) (classical)
qué‐los “want them (masc.)” (< quer) (classical)
dar te lo ei, dar te lo ia
Possible in Hispano-Romance, early Galician/Portuguese and European Portuguese
te lo daré, te lo daría
Only possibility in Modern Spanish (similarly in most spoken Galician/Portuguese)
Figure 25.8  Medioclisis/separability of future and conditional endings.
468  D. Eric Holt
hiatus and resulting palatalization, the loss of various consonants and resulting vocalic
modifications). We also saw that in the early Modern period, several additional changes
occur that yield other of the salient characteristics of GP (e.g., deaffrication of ch, atonic
vowel reduction). The final section looked at issues of grammaticalization, contraction and
prosody of a morphophonological nature that characterize Portuguese in contrast to other
Romance varieties. While the treatment here has been brief, it is hoped that the reader will
be inspired to investigate further.
Acknowledgments
The author would link to thank Leo Wetzels for his comments and suggestions on this
chapter as well as for his editorial guidance.
Notes
1	 In this work I employ the abbreviations HR (Hispano‐Romance) and GP (Galician/Portuguese),
which variably indicates that some feature is shared by Galician and Portuguese, or refers to the
historical stage when they were unitary. The present chapter is necessarily brief; for general over-
views of the evolution of GP, the interested reader is referred to the references cited in the text, as
well as Castro 2004, Parkinson 1988, Silva Neto 1988, inter alia.
2	 For one approach along these lines using a dispersion‐theoretic optimality‐theoretic approach, see
Baker 2007.
3	 By definition, [−cont] means no oral airflow; nasal consonants bear this feature because the airflow
is through the nasal cavity. The marked configuration [nasal, +cont] that would result from lenition
is disfavored (see discussion and references in Holt 2002), and /n/ comes to lose its consonantal
status; that is, nasal(ized) vowels result. See also Morales‐Front and Holt 1997.
4	 See Holt 2002 for discussion of the doubly‐articulated structure of laterals. Briefly, /l/ is [‐cont] at
its primary coronal articulation, and [+cont] at its secondary dorsal articulation. When the primary
[−cont] is changed, /l/ becomes a glide, and this higher sonority status licenses it to occur in the
coda. This option is not possible in onset position, and in that position, intervocalic (nonmoraic)
/l/ is lost.
5	 The change is first one of [continuant] (k > x; g > ɣ), then of [sonorant] (> [j]).
6	 We could conceptualize this in optimality‐theoretic terms as due to increasing dominance of a con-
straint NoComplex.
7	 For theoretical analyses, see Holt 2004 and discussion and references therein.
8	 See Holt 1993 for discussion in autosegmental terms of this and related phenomena in several
Romance varieties.
9	 However, when a high vowel precedes a non‐high vowel, e.g. viagem “travel, journey,” sueco
“Swede,” suave “smooth,” sour “sweat,” hiatus remains (cf. diphthong formation in Spanish in
viaje, suave, etc.), such that phonologically there are no rising diphthongs (glide+vowel) in GP.
(Agard 1984: 189.)
10	 The phonological status of these has been long debated, see, e.g., the discussion and references in
Morales‐Front and Holt 1997.
11	 The occurrence and alternations of nasalization in plural formation in Galician and Portuguese
varieties (e.g. irmão(s) “brother(s),” irmã(s) “sister(s)”; razão ~ razões “reason(s)”; pão ~ pães
“bread(s)”) is a much‐treated phenomenon. See Colina 2011, Ferreira and Holt 2014, Holt 2002,
and Morales‐Front and Holt 1997, among very many others.
12	 See Williams 1962: §100 for further discussion, as well as Penny 2009.
13	One indication of this is that they are stress‐neutral, cf. falávamos / falávamos‐lhe “we used to talk (to
him/her),” where stress comes to fall before the so‐called three‐syllable window.
From Latin to Portuguese: Main Phonological Changes  469
References
Agard, F. B. (1984). A Course in Romance
Linguistics. Volume 1: A Synchronic View.
Volume 2: A Diachronic View. Washington, DC:
Georgetown University Press.
Baker, G. K. (2007). Duration, voice, and
dispersion in stop contrasts from Latin to
Spanish. In F. Martínez‐Gil and S. Colina
(eds.), Optimality‐Theoretic Studies in Spanish
Phonology. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 399–423.
Castro, I. (2004). Introdução à História do Português.
Geografia da Língua Portuguesa Antiga. Lisbon:
Colibri.
Clements, G. N. (1990). The role of the sonority
cycle in core syllabification. Papers in Laboratory
Phonology, 1, pp. 283–333.
Colina, S. (2011). Plural formation in Galician.
In J. Herschensohn (ed.), Selected Proceedings
from the 40th Linguistic Symposium on Romance
Languages. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 79–98.
Elsman, M. M. and D. E. Holt (2009). When small
words collide: morphological reduction and
phonological compensation in Old Leonese
contractions. In R. Leow, H. Campos, and
D. Lardiere (eds.), Little Words: Their History,
Phonology, Syntax, Semantics, Pragmatics, and
Acquisition. Washington, DC: Georgetown
University Press, pp. 21–33.
Ferreira, L. and D. E. Holt (2014). On the partially
divergent phonology of Spanish, Portuguese
and points in between. In P. Amaral and A. M.
Carvalho (eds.), Portuguese/Spanish Interfaces:
Diachrony, Synchrony, and Contact. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins, pp. 123–150.
Hayes, B. (1989). Compensatory lengthening in
moraic phonology. Linguistic Inquiry, 20,
pp. 253–306.
Holt, D. E. (1993). Anti‐hiatic insertion and
spreading processes in Hispano‐Romance.
Aleph, 8 (2), pp. 84–98.
Holt, D. E. (1997). The role of the listener in the
historical phonology of Spanish and
Portuguese: an optimality‐theoretic account.
Ph.D. dissertation, Georgetown University.
Holt, D. E. (1998). The role of comprehension,
reinterpretation and the Uniformity Condition
in historical change: the case of the
development of Cl clusters from Latin to
Hispano‐Romance. In V. Samiian (ed.),
Proceedings of the Twenty‐Sixth Western
Conference on Linguistics. Fresno, CA:
Department of Linguistics, California State
University, pp. 133–148.
Holt, D. E. (1999). The moraic status of
consonants from Latin to Hispano‐Romance:
The case of obstruents. In J. Gutiérrez‐Rexach
and F. Martínez‐Gil (eds.), Advances in Hispanic
Linguistics: Papers from the Second Hispanic
Linguistics Symposium. Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla Press, pp. 166‐181.
Holt, D. E. (2000). Comparative optimality‐
theoretic dialectology: singular/plural nasal
alternations in Galician, Mirandese (Leonese)
and Spanish. In H. Campos, E. Herburger,
A. Morales‐Front, and T. J. Walsh (eds.),
Papers from the Third Hispanic Linguistics
Symposium. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press,
pp. 125–143.
Holt, D. E. (2002). The articulator group and
liquid geometry: implications for Spanish
phonology present and past. In C. Wiltshire
and J. Camps (eds.), Romance Phonology and
Variation. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 85–99.
Holt, D. E. (2003). The emergence of palatal
sonorants and alternating diphthongs in
Hispano‐Romance. In D. E. Holt (ed.),
Optimality Theory and Language Change.
Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic, pp. 285–305.
Holt, D. E. (2004). Optimization of syllable
contact in Old Spanish via the sporadic sound
change metathesis. Probus: International
Journal of Latin and Romance Linguistics, 16,
pp. 43–61.
Holt, D. E. (2007). Optimality theory and
language change in Spanish. In F. Martínez‐Gil
and S. Colina (eds.), Optimality‐Theoretic
Advances in Spanish Phonology. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins, pp. 378–396.
Lloyd, P. M. (1987). From Latin to Spanish.
Volume I: Historical Phonology and Morphology of
the Spanish Language. Philadelphia, PA:
The American Philosophical Society.
Mattoso Camara, J. (1972). The Portuguese
Language. Translated by A. J. Naro. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press.
Meillet, A. (1970). General Characteristics of the
Germanic Languages. Translated by
W. P. Dismukes. Coral Gables, FL:
University of Miami Press.
Morales‐Front, A. and D. E. Holt (1997). On the
interplay of morphology, prosody and
faithfulness in Portuguese pluralization.
470  D. Eric Holt
In F. Martínez‐Gil and A. Morales‐Front (eds.),
Issues in the Phonology and Morphology of the
Major Iberian Languages. Washington, DC:
Georgetown University Press, pp. 393–437.
Nunes, J. J. (1989). Compêndio de Gramática
Histórica Portuguesa: Fonética e Morfologia,
9th edn. Lisbon: Livraria Clássica Editora.
Parkinson, S. (1988). Portuguese. In M. Harris
and N. Vincent (eds.), The Romance Languages.
New York: Oxford University Press,
pp. 131–169.
Penny, R. (1991). A History of the Spanish Language.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Penny, R. (2009). Vowel harmony and metaphony
in Iberia: a revised analysis. Estudos de
Lingüística Galega, 1, pp. 113–124.
Pensado Ruiz, C. (1986). Comha, ravha, y otras
grafías similares en portugués medieval. Verba:
Anuario Galego de Filoloxia, 13, pp. 329–340.
Perini, M. A. (2002). Modern Portuguese:
A Reference Grammar. New Haven, CT:
Yale University Press.
Pulgram, E. (1975). Latin‐Romance Phonology:
Prosodics and Metrics. Munich: Wilhelm Fink.
Silva Neto, S. (1988). História da Língua
Portuguesa, 5th edn. Rio de Janeiro: Presença.
Williams, E. B. (1962). From Latin to Portuguese:
Historical Phonology and Morphology of the
Portuguese Language. Philadelphia, PA:
University of Pennsylvania Press.
Zec, D. (1995). Sonority constraints on syllable
structure. Phonology, 12, pp. 85–129.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
This chapter discusses some morphosyntactic changes, in the history of Portuguese, based on the
broad concept of grammaticalization, here understood as a process by which lexical items in
particular constructions assume, in certain linguistic contexts, a new status as grammatical forms.
The grammaticalization processes often involve not only maintenance of previous features,
but also the loss and the gain of grammatical properties, such as change in the original meaning
(bleaching) and in morphosyntactic features as well as extension of use to news contexts (Heine
2003: 579). Eventually, but not mandatorily, there can be phonetic reduction. Typical examples
of grammaticalization in Romance languages include the evolution of the Latin verbal
construction formed by an infinitive verb and the auxiliary habere “have” (amare habeo “love (I)
have”) into the simple future, and the morphologization of the Latin noun mente “mind” into
an adverbial suffix (cf. Hopper and Traugott 2003: 9, 140–141, among others).
In the following sections, we will describe some instances of grammaticalization processes
that occurred in the history of Portuguese focusing mainly on the principles of persistence
and decategorialization (Hopper 1991; Heine 2003).1
The persistence principle allows us to
assume that some original meanings will tend to survive in the new grammaticalized form.
According to the principle of decategorialization, grammaticalized constructions tend to lose
the morphosyntactic properties of the source forms, such as their syntactic freedom and
independence as autonomous forms (Heine and Kuteva 2007: 40). In Section 2, we discuss
the development of some verbal forms and constructions. Section 3 focuses on the grammati-
calization of nominal and pronominal categories.
2.  Grammaticalization of verb forms and constructions
2.1.  Forms and constructions expressing futurity2
The Portuguese synthetic future (amarei, amaremos, etc. “(I) will sing,” (we) will sing”), as
well as cognate forms in other Romance languages, are the result of morphologization of the
Latin auxiliary habere “have” into a marker of future tense. The Latin periphrastic construction

Main Morphosyntactic Changes
and Grammaticalization
Processes
Célia Regina dos Santos Lopes
and Maria Teresa Brocardo
26
472  Célia Regina dos Santos Lopes and Maria Teresa Brocardo
was formed by a verb in the infinitive and habere: amare habemus or habemus amare (love‐inf
have‐1pl, “We have to love”). For Adams (1991), the order habemus + inf was unmarked and
interpreted as a modal construction, expressing possibility in the period of later Latin. From
the early Empire onwards, examples expressing necessity/obligation or related values began
to appear mainly, but not exclusively, in the marked order inf + habemus. The author points
out that the periphrasis (amare habemus) with a future meaning is only attested from the
­
second to the third century ce. The trigger to mark the future was developed from the obli-
gation/necessity value. Portuguese forms such as amaremos “(we) will love,” amareis (Old
Port. amaredes) “(you.pl) will love,” etc., show phonetic reduction of the (original) auxiliary,
in contrast with the periphrastic construction which also persisted in Portuguese: havemos,
haveis (Old Port. havedes) de amar “we, you.pl have to love.” Since the most ancient written
Portuguese records the competition between the synthetic future and the haver (preposition)
+ inf periphrasis is attested, apparently opposing tense and modal values (Brocardo 2013).
The persistence principle is observed in some word‐like properties of the current future tense
markers: in Portuguese, the clitic pronoun can still appear in medial position, that is, ­between
the ancient main verb and the auxiliary verb (Posner 1996: 178): encontrar‐te‐emos “find‐
inf‐you‐fut.suf” = “we will find you”; pagá‐lo‐íamos “pay‐inf‐it‐fut.suf” = “we would pay it.”
These possibilities only occur with the simple future (amaremos “we will love”) and the
future in the past or conditional (amaríamos “we would love”), precisely the two verbal tenses
that originated from the periphrastic construction with habere (infinitive‐V + habere‐Aux).
Currently, a common alternative construction for future reference is the “periphrastic
future,” a construction with the auxiliary ir “go” + inf (e.g., Ele vai acabar o curso (no próximo
ano) “He will (is going to) graduate (next year)”). This is a case of the recurrent grammatical-
ization path of (movement in) space > (movement in) time (cf. Heine 2003: 586, among
others). Note that the construction remains periphrastic, with no phonetic reduction, which
probably indicates that it has grammaticalized rather late in the history of the language.
According to Lima (2001: 125), from the thirteenth to the sixteenth century, this construction
remained quite stable, preserving the three features of “motion,” “intention” and “future”:
“motion” and “intention” being part of the meaning of ir “go,” while “future” appears as a
result of pragmatic inference. A contrastive analysis of occurrences of ir + inf and of the
synthetic future in fifteenth century testimonies shows that the periphrasis is not fully gram-
maticalized around this period: even though it can have a future time reference, it occurs
mainly in contexts where “motion” is presupposed (Brocardo 2013). In Contemporary
Portuguese, some constraints apparently still restrict the use of this “go” future: in some
varieties, the periphrasis cannot be used with lexical ir, resulting in contrasts like: Amanhã
vou trabalhar/(*)ir ao cinema “Tomorrow I’m going to work/(*)go to the cinema.”
2.2.  Progressive periphrases with ir “go,” andar “walk”
and estar “be” + gerund
In aspectual periphrases with estar (“be” < Latin stare “stand”) and andar (“walk” < Latin
ambulare “walk”), BP and EP contrast in the use of constructions with gerund or with the
preposition a “to, at” + inf (BP Ele está/anda trabalhando [be/walk.pres.3sg work.ger]
demais, EP Ele está/anda a trabalhar [be/walk.pres.3sg prep work.inf] demais “He is working
too much”). The BP alternative is diachronically more conservative since it corresponds to
the type of construction attested in Portuguese ancient texts. This formal variation does
not, however, occur in the parallel construction with ir “go,” in which EP also preserves
the gerund periphrasis for the expression of progressive (e.g., BP, EP O tempo vai passando
[go.pres.3sg pass.ger] “Time is passing”).3
The analysis of extant written records from Old
and Middle Portuguese (thirteenth to mid‐sixteenth century) shows grammaticalization
Main Morphosyntactic Changes and Grammaticalization Processes  473
of the aspectual periphrasis ir + ger: in many occurrences we find the bleaching of ir, with
loss of its literal “motion” value, and it can occur with non‐animate subjects (Mattos e
Silva 1989: 45), as in:
(1)  A caentura da carne    
vai    
escaecendo e  morrendo  no homen
The warmth of the flesh  go.pres.3sg forget.ger  and die.ger   in the man
“The warmth of the flesh progressively forgets and dies in the man (men progressively
lose desire as they grow old)”4
(Diálogos de São Gregório, fourteenth century)
By contrast, during the same periods, constructions with andar still allow a (literal)
“motion” reading, or are of ambiguous interpretation, apparently showing a grammatical-
ization process still in progress. We find evidence of full grammaticalization of progressive
periphrases with andar only in later testimonies, which indicates that the grammaticalization
processes involving the two periphrases were diachronically distinct. Comparing ­occurrences
of ir and andar+ger in the same period, we conclude that the values of the two constructions
overlap only in the marking of iteration. When andar/ir occur in similar contexts, it is clear
that only ir periphrases denote an “incremental” value (Laca 2005: 7) or, in a different formu-
lation, “a situation in which every instant of the given interval is conceived of as a possible
vantage point for the evaluation of the event” (Bertinetto 2000: 576). This can be observed
comparing examples such as (2) and (3): andar+ger denotes a more “static” situation, with a
value similar to the one expressed by the estar+ger periphrasis, while ir+ger induces a
“dynamic” reading of the situation:
(2)  uirõ (…)  que a az da coynha     
andaua     
destroindo  ẽ eles
see.PPS.3pl that the battle formation  walk.imperf.3sg  destroy.ger  in they
“they noticed (…) that the battle formation was doing them damage”
(Livro de Linhagens do Conde D. Pedro, late fourteenth century)
(3)  ali   foy     
a morte deles   grande  porque   os castelaãos
there be.PPS.3sg the death their great  
because the Castilians
os    
leuauã ẽ encalço   
e   hyã      
 
ferĩ do    e
they.acc pursue.imperf.3pl and go.  
imperf.3pl injure.ger and
deribãdo   ẽ eles
make fall.ger  in they
“many of them died there because the Castilians were pursuing them and they were
injuring them and making them fall (more and more)”
(idem)
In fact, only ir periphrases denote a value characterizable as “a gradual and durative
­
process tending towards the telos” (Squartini 1998: 257), as in:
(4)  mostrãdolho      
pelas  scripturas per que temã        
Deus
show.ger he.dat it.acc  by the  scriptures so that  fear.pres.subj.3pl  God
e   
per que  sse     uãa     quitando  
daquelle  erro
and so that they. refl go. pres.subj.3pl depart.ger from that fault
“showing it to them by the scriptures in such a way that they fear God and that they
progressively leave that fault”
(Primeira Partida de Afonso X, fourteenth century)
474  Célia Regina dos Santos Lopes and Maria Teresa Brocardo
In testimonies from the fifteenth century onward, we also find occurrences of ir constructions
denoting an “inceptive” interpretation (in the expression of Bertinetto 2000: 679 for Spanish),
which also corresponds to one of its values in Contemporary Portuguese:
(5) Pareceme      
(…)  que  ia    
estes  nossos  pouco   amigos
Seem.pres.3sg I.dat (…) that already these 
our   not much friends
uaão    
conhecendo  o que  teẽ      
em  nos
go.pres.3pl know.ger  what have.pres.3pl in  us
“It seems to me (…) that already these not much friends of ours begin to understand
what they have in us (are to expect from us)”
(Crónica do Conde D. Duarte de Meneses de Gomes Eanes de Zurara, late fifteenth century)
Note that the coexistence of two constructions with “motion” verbs (ir, denoting oriented
motion, and andar, denoting non‐oriented motion) is a distinctive feature of Portuguese (and
Spanish) in the Romance context (Squartini 1998; Laca 2005, among others). The observed
semantic differences between the two constructions may be interpreted, from the perspec-
tive of grammaticalization, as the result of persistence of original lexical values inherent to ir
and andar as non‐auxiliaries (cf. Squartini 1998: 255, ff.). It is clear that distinct values were
already marked by periphrases with the two verbs in past stages of Portuguese, and that
there is persistence of the feature of “directionality” or “telicity” in the case of ir+ger con-
structions. The fact that the two periphrases followed distinct diachronic paths and, in
particular, the fact that the progressive construction with ir appears to have grammaticalized
earlier, allow us to hypothesize that the values for the constructions with ir were already
clearly defined when the constructions with andar began to grammaticalize. This may have
prevented the merger of the two constructions, a hypothesis put forward by Brocardo and
Correia (2012).
In Contemporary Portuguese there is also a progressive construction with yet another
motion verb, vir “come,” as in Vem aumentando [come.pres.3sg increase.ger] o número de
­pessoas descontentes [“The number of discontent people is increasing (more and more)”].
The grammaticalization of this type of construction seems to have occurred rather late in the
history of Portuguese. In fact, we do find attestation of vir+ger in fifteenth‐century
­
testimonies, but the “deictic orientation” (Squartini 1998, among others) typical of these
­
constructions is still of a locative nature, as in:
(6) Mas os mouros   como uyrã   que  os   nossos  começauõ
But the Moors as see.PPS.3pl that the our   start.imperf.3pl
aquelle  trabalho,  uyeronse   chegando
that  fight   come.PPS.3pl approach.ger
“But the Moors, as they saw that our men were starting that fight, came approaching”
(Crónica do Conde D. Pedro de Meneses de Gomes Eanes de Zurara, late fifteenth century)
The evolution of vir+ger would then follow the typical (unidirectional) trend: (movement
in) space > (movement in) time. However, we have found that these periphrases have a
relatively low frequency in the data from past stages; hence, it is not clear yet how the
­
diachronic process really developed, except that the grammaticalization of vir+ger is late.
The “state” counterpart of these periphrases is expressed in Contemporary Portuguese
with estar, corresponding to the sole syntactic context where ser and estar cannot alternate
(Ele *é/está trabalhando/a trabalhar “He is working”).5
It should, however, be noted that
the contemporary paradigm of ser is suppletive, with forms from Latin esse “be” and sedere
Main Morphosyntactic Changes and Grammaticalization Processes  475
“sit.” In past stages some occurrences of forms from sedere still show the preservation of their
etymological “postural” value, while the lexical original value of estar “stand” seems to have
bleached earlier. Except for, perhaps, a few residual cases (Mattos e Silva 1989: 455–457),
periphrases with estar+ger show full grammaticalization, as in:
(7)  e   esteue       hũa gram peça  pensando  nas   palauras
and be(stand).PPS.3sg a long time think.ger  on the words
“And for a long time he was thinking about those words”
(Livro de Linhagens do Conde D. Pedro, late fourteenth century)
This is never the case with ser: when it occurs in constructions with the gerund, it has a
lexical “postural” value, as in (8), and we have found no evidence for a grammaticalization
process affecting the construction for the expression of the progressive aspect (this coincides
with the description made by Mattos e Silva 1989: 450–451).6
(8)  E …  seendo   
comẽdo filhou     dõ gonçalo   sa molher
And be(sit).ger eat.ger grabb.PPS.3sg don gonçalo his wife
“And while he was sitting eating Don Gonçalo grabbed his wife”
(idem)
To sum up, the Portuguese aspectual periphrases discussed in this section followed dis-
tinct diachronic paths: both “state” progressive estar+ger and “motion” progressive ir+ger
appear to have achieved full grammaticalization early; data from Old Portuguese appear to
show a similar process for andar+ger, but this process was still in progress by the late four-
teenth century; vir+ger, the less frequent, appears to have grammaticalized much later, since
we have found no clear examples of the bleaching of vir “come” in this construction until the
late fifteenth century. The different values conveyed by “motion” periphrases can be inter-
preted as a consequence of the persistence of original lexical values inherent to ir (“oriented
motion”) vs. andar (“non‐oriented motion”). The latter, once grammaticalized, came to com-
pete with the (earlier grammaticalized) construction with estar, resulting in a somewhat
subtle opposition of semantic values. The opposition appears to be productive already in
past stages, as shown in the examples (9) and (10), where andar adds iterativity to the process
expressed by the main verb, while estar simply marks its durative aspect:
(9)  Jsto  
entenderom     muytos  em sua  contenẽça
This understand.PPS.3pl many  by his expression
quando  estaua    
sguardando  a   grandeza da cidade
when be.imperf.3sg observe.ger the greatness of the city
“Many of them understood this by his expression while he was observing the greatness
of the city”
(Crónica do Conde D. Duarte de Meneses de Gomes Eanes de Zurara, late fifteenth century)
(10)  e    
nojarã‐se      muito    por ello, pello quall  a
And  upset.PPS.3pl them  very much  by that by  what  the
gemte  miuda  amdava     
rrazoãdo  mall  do   
comde
people small walk. imperf.3sg say.ger  bad of the count
“And they were very upset about that, the reason why the people were (repeatedly)
saying bad things about the count”
(idem)
476  Célia Regina dos Santos Lopes and Maria Teresa Brocardo
2.3.  Emergence of compound tenses and persistence
of synthetic verb forms
In Contemporary Portuguese, the pretérito perfeito composto (PPC) “compound past perfect”
expresses values that are clearly distinct from those expressed by the large majority of
other Romance compound tenses originated from the same sources.7
The Portuguese PPC
either denotes a durative situation, starting in the past and continuing up to the present
(e.g., Ele tem sido [have.pres.3sg be.PP] um bom rapaz “He has been [and still is] a good
boy”), or denotes iteration (e.g., Ele tem feito [have.pres.3sg do.PP] os trabalhos de casa “He
has done/has been doing his homework”), depending on the verb or the context. The
contrast between the PPC and the pretérito perfeito simples (PPS) “simple past perfect” is thus
very clearly marked (Ele foi [be.PPS.3sg] um bom rapaz “He was a good boy”; Ele fez [do.
PPS.3sg] os trabalhos de casa “He has done / did his homework”; see Campos 1997 for a
detailed description). This type of distinction is not, however, noticeable in past stages of
Portuguese.
We should begin by noting that, in Old and Middle Portuguese, compound forms of
unaccusative verbs (e.g., partir(‐se) “leave,” chegar “arrive,” tornar “return,” vir “come”),
including originally deponent verbs (morrer “die,” nascer “be born”8
), occur with the auxiliary
ser “be” (< Latin esse “be”), alternatively to the PPS.9
This is shown in:
(11)  E esto   
he     que  o  velho   
que   ally  
estaa
And this be.pres.3sg that the old man who there be.pres.3sg
por  capitão  
he    partido  
pera  o  seu  rregno
as  captain be.pres leave.PP to  the his country
“And the fact is that the old man who is there as captain has left to his country”
(Crónica do Conde D. Pedro de Meneses de Gomes Eanes de Zurara, late fifteenth century)
The different selection of the auxiliary did not persist in Portuguese, contrary to other
Romance areas (as in French, for instance, in which être is still used with unaccusatives, and
avoir with other verbs). The loss of this “be” construction appears to have occurred after the
full grammaticalization of the periphrases with haver and especially ter “have”+PP, a process
that may have been favored precisely by the analogy with the preexisting “be”+PP structure
(see Ledgeway 2011: 455–456 for a detailed proposal on this relation).
Many occurrences of “have” (haver or ter)+PP in early testimonies do not allow a
compound tense reading (or are ambiguous), and correspond to the type of construction
usually described as “resultative” (Squartini and Bertinetto 2000: 405): there is no obligatory
coincidence between the subject of haver/ter and the subject of the PP, which has a predica-
tive function related to the object of haver/ter; hence, there is gender and number agreement
between the PP and the object, as shown in (13).10
In such occurrences, “have” does not yet
correspond to an auxiliary, but preserves its lexical meaning; concomitantly, adjacency and
relative order of the verbs are also less restricted, as shown in (12) and (14).
(12)  E   por  istes  tortos     
que   li    
fecerũ
And for these wrong things which he.dat do.PPS.3pl
tem      
qua  a       
seu  plazo  quebrãtado
have.pres.3sg that have.pres.3sg his pact  break.PP
“And because of these wrong things that they have done to him he considers that he
(literally) has his pact broken (the pact is broken)”
(Noticia de Torto, 1214?)
Main Morphosyntactic Changes and Grammaticalization Processes  477
(13)  Dizemos  que  os  iudeus  bẽ  possã       guardar
Say.1pl  that the Jews  well may.pres.subj.3pl respect
seus  
sabados (…)   
e  
que  
usẽ        todas  as  outras cousas
their  Sabbath.pl (…)  and that  use.pres.subj.3pl  every the other things
que  han      outorgadas     
per  Sancta Eygreya.
that have.pres.3pl authorize.PP.fem.pl by  Holy Church
“We say that Jews may respect their Sabbath (…) and that they may use all those other
things that they have that were authorized by the Holy Church”
(Foro Real, late thirteenth century)
(14) e   diselhi       
senhor  leuãtadeuos
and say.PPS.3sg‐he.dat sir   
stand up.imp.2pl‐you.2pl.refl
di (…)     ca    
adubado  o   
teedes.
from there (…) because  prepare.PP  it.acc  have.pres.2pl
“And he said to him sir stand up from there (…) because (literally) you have it
(the food) prepared (the food is prepared)”
(Livro de Linhagens do Conde D. Pedro, late fourteenth century)
Although several earlier examples have been pointed out (Cardoso and Pereira 2003), the
frequency of the construction “have”+PP as the fully grammaticalized PPC increases
­
especially from the fifteenth century on in the extant written records. The grammaticaliza-
tion process entails the semantic bleaching of the lexical meaning inherent to haver and ter,
which obviously implies the loss of the (possible) semantic contrast between the two verbs
(see Chapter 1, History and Current Setting, Section 4.2). In an initial stage the verb most
likely to grammaticalize as an auxiliary probably was haver, since its meaning was more
general. In fact, our investigation of earlier attestations of the grammaticalized PPC indicates
that constructions with haver were apparently more frequent. Below we provide an early
occurrence:
(15) E   forõ    cõ   el  
na busca   
da   uera cruz
And go.PPS.3pl with he in the quest for the holy cross
por saluamẽto  da   
fe   de iesu cristo (…)
for salvation  of the  faith  of Jesus Christ (…)
asi como  auemos    
mostrado.
as how  have.pres.1pl  show.PP
“And they went with him in quest for the holy cross for the salvation of Jesus Christ’s
faith (…) as we have shown”
(idem)
But the generalization of the meaning of ter (that also dictated its prevalence over haver as
a main verb) would soon reverse the initial trend. In the fifteenth century (but also earlier),
ter is already the auxiliary in many PPC examples:
(16) E vos (…)    fazey     registar  esta carta    
no liuro uosso (…)
And you.pl (…)  make.imp.2pl  register  this document  in the book your (…)
por   
se saber  como isto  
temos     dado  ao dito Dõ Duarte
so that know  
how this have.pres.1pl give.PP to the mentioned D.D.
“And you (…) register this document in your book (…) so that it is known that we
have given this to the mentioned Don Duarte.”
(Crónica do Conde D. Duarte de Meneses de Gomes Eanes de Zurara, late fifteenth
century)
478  Célia Regina dos Santos Lopes and Maria Teresa Brocardo
(17)  Ate’quy   nõ  
temos     
feita   nenhũa cousa
Until now not have.pres.1pl do.PP.fem anything
(…) per que   devamos      
ser   prezados
(…) by which must.pres.subj.1pl be.inf praise.PP.pl
“Until now we haven’t done anything (…) by which we should be praised”
(Crónica do Conde D. Pedro de Meneses de Gomes Eanes de Zurara, late fifteenth century)
(18) E   faço      
fim  de meu rrazoado  emcomemdãdo‐vos
And make.pres.1sg end of my words  recommend.ger you. dat.pl
todo     o  que dito   
tenho
everything that  
have.PP say.pres.1sg
“And I finish my words recommending everything that I have said”
(idem)
Examples like these, where a “single occurrence” (Campos 2000: 58) of the event is
expressed, show a value of the PPC still clearly distinct from the one in Contemporary
Portuguese (in which the PPC denotes iteration with the above types of verb). This allows us
to conclude that the specificity of its functioning in Portuguese emerged later than the formal
innovation—that is, the replacement of haver by ter. Also note that overt agreement with the
object (17) and a verb‐auxiliary order (18) persist in many examples of grammaticalized PPC.
There is no consensus on the chronology of the semantic drift that would lead to the speci-
ficity of the Portuguese PPC. Examples from seventeenth‐century texts were cited where the
PPC supposedly still persists with non‐iterative or non‐durative values, but the same data
have been interpreted differently by other scholars, according to Squartini and Bertinetto
(2000: 419).11
As we said, the mentioned semantic innovation cannot be attributed to the specificity of
the auxiliary (originated from tenere, and not from habere, which was the source of the
auxiliary in most Romance languages). We believe it is more likely to be a result of the per-
sistence of the PPS, whose frequency never decreased, contrary to what happened in other
Romance areas where the compound tense came to express at least part of the values origi-
nally expressed by the simple past (see Squartini and Bertinetto 2000: 408–410 for discussion).
This may have been a decisive factor, favoring the meaning differentiation between the
simple and the compound tenses. The grammaticalization of resultative constructions as a
compound tense led to a situation of competition between the PPS and the PPC for the
expression of identical, or at least closely related, values. The result of this competition, in
most areas of Romance, was that the compound tense assumed (part of) the values once
restricted to the PPS; but in Portuguese it led instead to a differentiation of the two forms,
with the development of “new” values for the PPC.
Another instance of competition between simple and compound verb forms occurred in
the history of Portuguese with the pluperfect, but the result was different. Similarly to what
happened with the PPC, not only the construction “have”(haver/ter) imperf+PP (e.g., Ele
havia/tinha feito “He had done”) grammaticalized as a compound pluperfect, but also “be”
(ser) imperf+PP (of unaccusative verbs) constructions are found in the initial stages of the
process (e.g., Ele era [be.imperf] partido [leave.PP]”He had left”).12
The synthetic pluperfect
(e.g., fizera, partira) lost the potential it had in past stages to express modal values, in particular
when used with inherently modal verbs and in conditional constructions; in Portuguese it
retained only its temporal “past in the past” meaning.13
Even if it is still productive in more
formal styles and in written language in Contemporary Portuguese, its use clearly decreased
in favor of the periphrastic form, a tendency to which the syncretism between 3rd person
Main Morphosyntactic Changes and Grammaticalization Processes  479
plural forms of the simple pluperfect and of the PPS may also have contributed (see Chapter 1,
History and Current Setting, Section 2.2). In any event, there seems to be no clear semantic
differentiation between the simple and the compound pluperfect in Contemporary
Portuguese (but see Campos 2000; and also the discussion in Brocardo 2010).
3.  Grammaticalization of nominal and pronominal
categories
The “pronominalization process” or, more precisely, the grammaticalization of nouns (or noun
phrases) into personal pronouns, is a quite common process of language change (see details
in Heine and Song 2011). In Portuguese, there are some illustrative cases. The form homẽ “one,
someone”—which originated from the Latin noun homo in its accusative form hominem
“person, man”—was used as an indefinite pronoun in the medieval period (until the sixteenth
century): que nunca homem viu na gram bretanha literally, “that never anyone saw in Great
Britain” (Reinhard Stoettner 1887: 43). Although this use disappeared in Portuguese, it was
maintained, for example, in French; at first, as an impersonal pronoun on “one,” and then as
a personal pronoun of the 1st person plural, on “we.” In Portuguese, however, this gap
has been filled by another noun phrase: a gente “the people,” which was also used as an
indefinite pronoun before it became a personal pronoun (a gente “we”). A possible pathway
for this grammaticalization process appears to be the following: a gente, literally “the people”
[generic noun] > a gente “anyone” [indefinite pronoun] > a gente “we” [1st person plural
­
pronoun]. Nowadays, both in EP and BP, the new pronoun a gente “we” occurs in variation
with the old pronoun nós “we” to refer to the 1st person plural (Lopes 2003; Marcotulio,
Vianna and Lopes 2013). Portuguese has another canonic case of grammaticalization from
noun phrase to ­
pronoun: the nominal possessive construction Vossa Mercê “Your Grace/
Mercy” has grammaticalized into a 2nd person pronoun você “you.”
3.1. From gente to a gente: changes in semantic
and formal features
The change process from the noun gente “people” to the pronoun a gente “we” was possible
because of the inherent value of the original form (Lopes 2003; Zilles 2005). The source noun
gente presupposes “a group of people,” and the speaker is necessarily a “person.” Hence, in
certain contexts this form could have either an “inclusive” interpretation (“a group of people
including me”), or an “exclusive” reading (“a group of people excluding me”). The example
below illustrates this ambiguity:
(19) E   os  tigres, em tanta cantidade  
(por  não haver  descampados),
And  the tigers, in so great amount  (because  not have.inf  open fields),
que,   em se metendo a rês   no mato,    
não sae,       e o mesmo
that,  in entering  the neat  in the bushes,  not go out.pres.3sg  and the same
risco corre      a gente,  se  não anda  acompanhada
risk suffer.pres.3sg  we/the people, if  not be/walk pres.3sg  accompanied
“And the tigers, in such great amount (due to lack of open fields), that, when the neat
enters in the bushes, it doesn’t go out, and we/the people run the same risk, if not
accompanied”
(Noticiário Maranhense, eighteenth century. In Marcotulio, Vianna, and Lopes 2013:126)
480  Célia Regina dos Santos Lopes and Maria Teresa Brocardo
Although in (19) the noun a gente can be interpreted as “the people, everybody,” the
reading “including the speaker” is available, because “any person is in danger in the bush
with tigers, including the first person.” These meaning properties of a gente certainly inter-
acted with the pronominal concept of 1st person plural expressed by the pronoun nós “we,”
which presupposes “an amplified first person,” that is, it includes the speaker and one or
more non‐speakers (Benveniste 1988). In particular, nós “we” can refer either to a determined
group (the speaker+you/he), as in (20), or to an indeterminate group (the speaker+everybody/
a
group of people), as in (21). This last case, of course, approximates the use of the pronoun nós
and uses of a gente like (19)—hence, the similarity of (19) and (21) may have given rise to the
use a gente as a 1st person plural pronoun.
(20) Nós, meu irmão e eu, gostávamos de brincar no quintal.
We, my brother and I, like.imperf.1pl to play in the backyard.
“We, my brother and I, liked to play in the backyard.”
(21) Nós  cidadãos precisamos    resolver o problema  da educação.
We  citizens  need.pres.1pl  to solve the problem  of education.”
“We citizens need to solve the problem of education.”
This grammaticalization process involving the incorporation of a gente into the pronom-
inal system of Portuguese can be attested in the eighteenth century but its gradual diffusion
occurred from the nineteenth century on, and it was faster in Brazil than in Portugal. It
resulted first in a change in the number features of the noun and, after, in a change in the
semantic features of gender of the new pronoun. That is, the pronoun a gente acquired some
intrinsic properties of the personal pronouns. However, it maintained some historical
­
morphosyntactic features of the noun gente (persistence principle).
Regarding person and number features, the pronoun a gente is mixed: it is grammatically
specified for 3sg and semantically for 1pl. The 3rd singular verbal agreement, which origi-
nated from the agreement properties of the noun phrase a gente “the people,” has been
retained, even though the new pronoun acquired the 1st person plural interpretation. The
example (22a) shows the 3sg verb agreement, and at the same time the 1pl interpretation,
reflected in the anaphoric relation between a gente and the possessive nossa “our”—that
belongs to the paradigm of nós “we” in Portuguese. One also frequently finds, mainly among
less educated speakers, a non‐standard verb agreement in which the morphology of 1pl
appears in the verbal ending, as in (22b) (see Chapter  31, Main Current Processes of
Morphosyntactic Variation).
(22)  a.  A gentei
andava     
de bicicleta, era  o esporte preferido  nossoi
We   ride.imperf.3sgi
  a bike   was the sport favorite  ouri
.1pl
“We used to ride a bike, it was our favorite sport”
b. A gente  andamos   
de bicicleta
We   
ride.pres.1pl a bike
“We ride a bike”
The decategorialization, principle can be illustrated in patterns of gender agreement in
predicative structures with a gente “we” in Portuguese (Menuzzi 2000; Menuzzi 1995; Lopes
and Rumeu 2007; Costa and Pereira 2012, among others). Unlike the feminine noun phrase
a gente, the pronoun a gente lost its formal specification for gender, assuming the peculiar
behavior of the 1st and 2nd personal pronouns, which do not show formal gender (eu, tu/
você, nós, vós/vocês “I, you.sg, we, you.pl”). In predicative constructions, however, gender
Main Morphosyntactic Changes and Grammaticalization Processes  481
agreement (masculine or feminine) is a reflex of the referent’s gender, that is, it depends on
the sex of the speaker. In predicative structures, the co‐occurrence with feminine singular
and/or plural is restrictive. In the singular, the referent is a woman (female); in the plural,
the referent is more than one woman. The masculine, on the other hand, leads to a neuter
interpretation: singular (group of men, mixed group or generic referent); plural (group of
men and mixed group).
(23) a.  Eu
  I
estou  velha.
am   old.fem.sg (Women‐exclusive, i.e, the speaker is a woman)
b.  Eu
  I
estou velho.
am   old.masc.sg” (Men‐exclusive, i.e., the speaker is a man)
  “I am old”
(24) a. A gente está velha.
We are old.fem.sg (Women‐exclusive)
b. A gente está velho.
We are old.masc.sg (The speaker is probably a man)
“We are old (fem/masc).”
(25) a. A gente está cansadas.
We are tired.fem.pl (Women‐exclusive, a group of women)
b. A gente está cansados.
We are tired.masc.pl (Men‐not exclusive, a group of men or mixed)
“We are tired (fem/masc).”
As further evidence of the action of the decategorialization principle, we point out that
pronominal a gente has lost its syntactic privileges of noun phrase. As a noun, gente may have
different determiners (esta/pouca gente “these/few people”) and can be modified by adjec-
tives (gente bonita “beautiful people”). Personal pronouns, however, are almost categorically
composed by an isolated head and the presence of a modifier would be ungrammatical: Eu
cantei; *O eu cantei;*Eu bonita cantei “I sang; *the I sang; *I nice sang”). Pronominal a gente
cannot be used with other, or additional, determiners, nor can it be modified by adjectives
(esta/pouca gente “these/few people” and gente bonita “beautiful people” have no reading
related to 1st person plural).
3.2. From Vossa Mercê to você
The grammaticalization of the nominal form Vossa Mercê emerges with the semantic‐
pragmatic bleaching of the polite pronoun Vós “you‐pl,” which was used with a singular
addressee (the king, a noble) to express respect, reverence, etc.
In the fourteenth century, Vossa Mercê was an ordinary noun phrase with a possessive
pronoun that corresponded to vossa vontade “your will”:
(26) se  for   vossa mercee,  quero     
seer  vosso vassallo
if be.subj your mercy  want.pres.1sg be.inf your vassal
“if it is your mercy, I want to be your vassal”
(Crónica Geral de Espanha de 1344)
The noun phrase was reanalyzed as a pronoun during the fifteenth century. The reanal-
ysis was due to the metonymic relationship between the 2nd person feature of the possessive
vossa “your” and the semantic value of the noun mercê “mercy.”
482  Célia Regina dos Santos Lopes and Maria Teresa Brocardo
The construction Vossa Mercê, initially used as a nominal form of address, became wide-
spread as a 2nd person polite pronoun in Old Portuguese. From the fifteenth century on,
Vossa Mercê was used, alongside with vós (you.pl for 2sg), to show deference to the king.
Similarly to what happened to the pronoun Vós, the nominal form of address began to be
used also to address other social positions, which triggered a process of semantic bleaching
and, eventually, the use of new forms, such as Vossa Senhoria “Your Lordship” and Vossa
Alteza “Your Highness.” As the use of the form generalized, it suffered phonetic erosion,
until the modern form você was born (Vossa Mercê>vosmecê>você).
In extant texts of the seventeenth century, Vossa Mercê and its written variants vosmecê,
mecêa, vosse, você were used in asymmetrical relations, co‐existing in the same contexts as
variant forms. The following examples, from a play written in the eighteenth century, show
the same character (Don Quixote) using both forms (Vossa Mercê or Você) to address the same
person, in this case, the barber (Lopes and Duarte 2003):
(27) Senhor  mestre barbeiro,  veja  vossa mercê
Sir   master barber,  see.imp Your Mercy
como me    
pega    
nestas  barbas
how me.dat handle.inf in these beards
“Sir master barber, see Your Mercy how do you handle my beards”
(A Vida de Don Quixote, p. 42)
(28) Ora,  sô  Mestre,  você  bem  sabe
Well, Sir master,   you  well  know.pres.3sg
que  
é obrigação dos de     
seu ofício
that  is duty   of the ones of  your profession
“Well, Your Master, you know that it is the duty of your profession”
(Idem, p. 45)
From the mid‐eighteenth century onwards, Vossa Mercê and the variant form você become
functionally divergent. The first one continued to be used in ascendant asymmetrical rela-
tions (from inferior to superior), whereas the new form was also frequent in descendant
relations (from superior to inferior).
In the nineteenth century, studies based on Brazilian manuscript letters show a further
step in the process, not attested for European Portuguese. The grammaticalized pronoun
você presented a hybrid and unstable behavior, quite typical of change in process: it had its
contexts of use extended and became quite variable in its values. It could be used as an
addressing pronoun by the Brazilian elite with some feature of politeness; at the same time,
it also circulated as a variant of the original pronoun tu “you.sg” to indicate proximity and
intimacy. The example (29) below shows this second use in the letter written in 1885 by a
grandmother to her grandson: to address him, she uses both the new pronoun você and the
old pronoun tu, expressed in the example by the verbal morphology:
(29) Estimei    muito as  
boas noticias  
que tive
Esteemed.1sg very much the good news that had.1sg
que voce está muito estudiozo.
that you  are  very studious.
Continue   para  nos   dar   muito gostos
Continue.3sg to  us.dat  give.inf  much happiness
e   a  sua  
Mae   
aquem   abraçarás    
por mim!
and to your mother to‐whom embrace.fut.2sg for me
“I esteemed greatly the good news that I had that you are very studious. Continue to
give us much happiness and for your mother whom you will embrace for me.”
(Missive written by Barbara Ottoni for Mizael, nineteenth century. In Lopes 2005: 251)
Main Morphosyntactic Changes and Grammaticalization Processes  483
Though becoming a variant of symmetrical tu and diverging from the original form
Vossa Mercê, the grammaticalized pronoun você still preserves some of its original semantic
values in BP. Studies based on synchronic data (e.g., Lopes et al. 2009) have demonstrated
that the old pronoun tu “you‐sg” is increasingly frequent in directive acts to indicate
proximity and social identity, especially among younger men in some urban areas in Brazil,
such as Rio de Janeiro. Opposed to this, the new pronoun você can be used as a neutral and
“less‐marked” form, because it is felt to be less directive, less invasive and less “threatening
to the hearer’s face.” Somehow, it has kept a level of “abstraction of politeness” that seems to
be a property inherited from Vossa Mercê (Koch 2008: 59).
Moreover, although the new grammaticalized pronoun você is interpreted as a 2nd person
singular, some of its grammatical features go further back, having as a source the original
noun phrase with the possessive pronoun—one more example of the action of the persis-
tence principle. Taking into consideration its person and number features, the pronoun você
is mixed: it is grammatically specified for 3sg and semantically for 2sg. Hence, as far as
verbal agreement is concerned, it patterns with the 3rd person pronouns (Rumeu 2013).
The functional overlap between você and the old 2nd person tu has led to a complex
­
pronominal paradigm in BP. In particular, the new form você has not been implemented with
the same level of success in the whole pronominal paradigm, and there are contexts of
­
resistance of forms of the old 2nd person (Lopes and Cavalcante 2011). For example, the clitic
te “you.acc/dat” has been preserved as an object form for 2nd person, alongside with você
and lhe (this last form being the old 3rd person clitic for indirect objects). Similarly, the
possessive forms of tu (teu “your” and its feminine and plural forms) are also used as an
alternative to the old 3rd person possessive seu. All these options are illustrated in (30) below.
(30) Vocêi
quer que eu  lhe/tei
       encontre (vocêi
) na escola
You want that I you.3sg/you.2sg meet (you) at school
para  entregar   seu/teui
      
livro?
to  
give back your.3sg/your.2sg book
“Do you want me to meet you at school to give your book back?”
The differences between BP and EP are at the level of the spreading of the new pronominal
form (faster in Brazil than in Portugal). Probably up until the nineteenth century, the pronom-
inal system underwent the same changes in both varieties. From the twentieth century on,
however, the spread of the new form você in both territories followed different pathways. In
BP, there was a progressive increase in the use of você in competition with tu. In EP, however,
the old pronoun tu not only continued to be the predominant form, but its frequency increased
over the past century. Você, in this variety, is still pragmatically ­
different from tu.
notes
1	 We assume a gradient view of grammatical categories, such that less prototypical exemplars
of the category may not have some of the category’s optimal properties.
2	 The following abbreviations are used in this chapter: 1, 2, 3 = 1st, 2nd, 3rd person; acc = accusative;
aux = auxiliary verb; BP = Brazilian Portuguese; dat = dative; EP = European Portuguese; fem =
feminine; fut = future; gen = genitive; ger = gerund; imp = imperative; imperf = imperfect; inf =
infinitive; masc = masculine; nom = nominative; obl = oblique; pl = plural; PP = past participle; prep =
preposition; pres = present; PPC = pretérito perfeito composto “compound past perfect”; PPS = preté-
rito perfeito simples “simple past perfect”; sg = singular; refl = reflexive; subj = subjunctive; suf =
suffix; V = verb.
484  Célia Regina dos Santos Lopes and Maria Teresa Brocardo
3	Note that the alternative periphrasis with ir followed by a + infinitive also occurs in EP, but in a
distinct construction, characterizable as “perambulative” (Bertinetto 2000: n.18): in this
construction, ir “go” denotes motion, thus corresponding to a less, or non, grammaticalized use of
the verb (e.g., Ele foi a cantar/cantando [go.PPS.3sg prep sing.inf/sing.ger] pelo caminho “He went
singing along the way”).
4	 These grammaticalized uses of ir+GER obviously also co‐occur with perambulative constructions
in past stages, e.g., e uã [go.pres.3pl] per terras alheas lazerando [hurt.ger] os corpos e despendendo
[spend.ger] os aueres. (Primeira Partida, fourteenth century) “and they go through foreign lands
hurting their bodies and spending their goods.”
5	 We use here a simplified opposition between constructions with verbs that originally had a “state”
or “postural” meaning (as Latin esse “be,” sedere “stand,” stare “sit”) and constructions with verbs
that originally expressed “motion” meanings (as Latin ire “go,” ambulare “walk,” venire “come”).
Note that in Portuguese past stages the use of ser was semantically less restricted, and it could
alternate with estar in contexts where, in Contemporary Portuguese, only the later can occur. For
example it could express a transitory or non‐inherent state, in examples such as Os cristãaos erã [be.
imperf.3pl] tã fora de força (Livro de Linhagens do Conde D. Pedro, late fourteenth century) “The
Christians were (literally) so out of force (very tired),” while in Contemporary Portuguese in this
type of contexts only estar is possible.
6	 Yet another postural verb, jazer “lay” (< Latin iacere “lay”) occurred in Portuguese past stages, but
in constructions with ger it also shows the preservation of its lexical meaning, as in late fifteenth
century examples such as Jazia [lay.imperf.1sg] dormindo [sleep.ger] “I was lying down sleeping.”
7	Note that the Portuguese PPC, as other Romance compound pasts, originated from Latin habere
“have”+ past participle, corresponds in form to the English present perfect; but the semantic
values expressed by these tenses do not overlap totally. We here use the more usual designation for
the Portuguese grammatical form, given that there is no unified terminology in the Romance
­
context (cf. Squartini and Bertinetto 2000: 403).
8	 Latin deponent verbs are usually described as verbs with “passive forms” or “passive ­morphology”
but with non‐passive meanings.
9	 But this does not mean that the two forms could freely alternate in all contexts.
10	Note that in Contemporary Portuguese, resultative constructions (with a structure similar to the
presented examples) also occur with or without co‐reference of the subject of ter and the subject of
the past participle. An example such as Tenho a casa limpa “(literally) (I) have the house cleaned”
(“The house is clean”) can, out of a precise context, be ambiguous, since the subjects of have and of
clean may be co‐referents or not.
11	 Expressions such as Tenho dito “(I) have said” sporadically occur with non‐iterative meaning in
Contemporary Portuguese in specific (formal) contexts. They seem to be relics of the old perfective
value of the PPC.
12	 The earliest, but still sporadic, attestations of the compound pluperfect with verbs like partir
“leave” and chegar “arrive” co‐occurring with the auxiliaries haver / ter were found in late fifteenth‐
century and early sixteenth‐century testimonies (Brocardo 2010).
13	 Contrary to what happened in Spanish, where it lost its temporal value and turned into a (past)
subjunctive (Becker 2008, among others).
References
Adams, J. N. (1991). Some neglected evidence for
Latin Habeo with infinitive: The order of the
constituents. Transactions of the Philological
Society, 89.2, pp. 131–96.
Becker, M. G. (2008). From temporal to modal:
divergent fates of the Latin synthetic pluperfect
in Spanish and Portuguese. In U. Detges and
R. Waltereit (eds.), The Paradox of Grammatical
Change. Perspectives from Romance. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins, pp. 147–179.
Benveniste, E. (1988). Problemas de lingüística
geral I. Campinas: Pontes/Editora da Unicamp.
Bertinetto, P. M. (2000). The progressive in
Romance, as compared with English. In
Ö. Dahl (ed.), Tense and Aspect in the Languages
of Europe. Berlin: de Gruyter, pp. 559–604.
Main Morphosyntactic Changes and Grammaticalization Processes  485
Brocardo, M. T. (2010). Portuguese pluperfect:
elements for a diachronic approach. Estudos
Linguísticos/Linguistic Studies, 5, pp. 117–130.
Brocardo, M. T. (2013). Sobre o futuro—formas e
construções marcadoras de posterioridade em
textos portugueses dos séculos XIII a XV. In
R. Álvarez, A. M. Martins, H. Monteagudo,
and M.A. Ramos (eds.), Ao sabor do texto.
Estudos dedicados a Ivo Castro. Santiago de
Compostela: Universidade de Santiago de
Compostela, Servizo de Publicacións e
Intercambio Científico, pp. 7790.
Brocardo, M. T. and C. N. Correia (2012).
Ir + gerúndio em português—aspetos
sincrónicos e diacrónicos. In A. Costa, C. Flores,
and N. Alexandre (eds.), Textos Selecionados.
XXVII Encontro Nacional da Associação
Portuguesa de Linguística. Lisbon: Associação
Portuguesa de Linguística, pp. 121–135.
Campos, M. H. C. (1997). Pretérito perfeito
simples/pretérito perfeito composto: uma
oposição aspectual e temporal. In M. H. C.
Campos, Tempo, Aspecto e Modalidade. Estudos
de Linguística Portuguesa. Porto: Porto Editora:
pp. 9–51.
Campos, M. H. C. (2000). Sur les formes
composées du prétérit en portugais. In
A. Englebert, M. Pierrard, L. Rosier, and D. van
Raemdonck (eds.), Actes du XXIIe
Congrès
International de Linguistique et Philologie
Romanes, II, pp. 57–63.
Cardoso, A. and S. Pereira (2003). Contributos
para o estudo da emergência do tempo
composto em português. Revista da
ABRALIN, II (2), pp. 159–181.
Costa, J. and S. Pereira (2012). “A gente”:
revisitando o estatuto pronominal e a
concordância. In A. P. Sedrins (ed.), Por amor à
Linguística: Miscelânea de Estudos Linguísticos
Dedicados à Denilda Moura. Maceió: EDUFAL,
pp. 101–119.
Hopper, P. J. (1991). On some principles of
grammaticalization. In E. C. Traugott and
B. Heine (eds.), Approaches to
Grammaticalization, vol. I. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins, pp. 17–36.
Hopper, P. J. and E. C. Traugott (2003).
Grammaticalization, 2nd edn. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Heine, B. (2003). Grammaticalization. In B.
D. Joseph and R. D. Janda (eds.), The Handbook
of Historical Linguistics. Cambridge, MA:
Blackwell, pp. 575–601.
Heine, B. and T. Kuteva (2007). The Genesis of
Grammar: A Reconstruction. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Heine, B. and K. Song (2011). On the
grammaticalization of personal pronouns.
Journal of Linguistics, 27, pp. 587–630.
Koch, P. (2008). Tradiciones discursivas y cambio
linguístico: el ejemplo del tratamiento vuestra
merced en español. In J. Kabatek (ed.). Sintaxis
histórica del español y cambio linguístico: nuevas
perspectivas desde las Tradiciones Discursivas.
Madrid: Iberoamericana, pp. 53–88.
Laca, B. (2005). Indefinites, quantifiers, and
pluractionals. What scope effects tell us about
event pluralities. In S. Vogeleer and
L. Tasmowski (eds.), Non‐Definiteness and
Plurality. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
http://halshs.archives‐ouvertes.fr/
docs/00/10/46/43/PDF/LacaIndPlurac.fin.
pdf, accessed November 6, 2015.
Ledgeway, A. (2011). Syntactic and
morphosyntactic typology and change. In
M. Maiden, J. C. Smith, and A. Ledgeway
(eds.), The Cambridge History of The Romance
Languages, vol. I Structures. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, pp. 382–471.
Lima, J. P. de (2001). Sobre a génese e a evolução
do futuro com ir em português. In A.S. da
Silva (ed.), Linguagem e Cognição. A Perspectiva
da Linguística Cognitiva. Braga: Associação
Portuguesa de Linguística, pp. 119–145.
Lopes, C. R. S. (2003). A Inserção de “a Gente” no
Quadro Pronominal do Português. Frankfurt am
Main: Vervuert.
Lopes, C. R. S. (ed.) (2005). A Norma Brasileira em
Construção: Fatos Lingüísticos em Cartas Pessoais
do Século XIX. Rio de Janeiro: Pós‐Graduação
em Letras Vernáculas/FAPERJ.
Lopes, C. R. S. and S. R. Cavalcante (2011).
A cronologia do voceamento no português
brasileiro: expansão de você‐sujeito e retenção
do clítico‐te. Lingüistica (Madrid), 25, pp. 30–65.
Lopes, C. R. S. and M. E. L. Duarte (2003). De
vossa mercê a você: análise da
pronominalização de nominais em peças
brasileiras e portuguesas setecentistas e
oitocentistas. In S. F. Brandão and M. A. Mota
(eds.), Análise Contrastiva de Variedades do
Português: Primeiros Estudos. Rio de Janeiro:
In‐Fólio, pp. 61–76.
Lopes, C. R. S., L. Marcotulio, V. Santos, and
A. Silva (2009). Quem está do outro lado do
túnel? Tu ou você na cena urbana carioca. In
U. Reich and C. Lopes (eds.), Neue Romania,
vol. 39. Berlin: Instituts für Romanische
Philologie der FU, pp. 49–66.
Lopes, C. R. S. and M. C. B. Rumeu (2007). O
quadro de pronomes pessoais do português: as
mudanças na especificação dos traços
486  Célia Regina dos Santos Lopes and Maria Teresa Brocardo
intrínsecos. In A. de Castilho, M. A. T. Morais,
R. E. V. Lopes, and S. M. L. Cyrino (eds.),
Descrição, história e aquisição do português
brasileiro. São Paulo: FAPESP, pp. 419–436.
Marcotulio, L., J. Vianna, C. and Lopes (2013).
Agreement patterns with “a gente” in
Portuguese. Journal of Portuguese Linguistics,
12, pp. 125–149.
Mattos e Silva, R. V. M. (1989). Estruturas
Trecentistas. Elementos para uma gramática do
Português Arcaico. Lisbon: IN‐CM.
Menuzzi, S. M. (1995). 1st person plural
anaphora In Brazilian Portuguese and chains.
In M. den Dikken and K. Hengeveld (eds.),
Linguistics in the Netherlands. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins, pp. 151–162.
Menuzzi, S. M. (2000). 1st person plural
anaphora in Brazilian Portuguese, chains and
constraint interaction in Binding Theory. In
J. Costa (ed.), Portuguese Syntax: New
Comparative Studies. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, pp. 191–240.
Posner, R. (1996). The Romance Languages.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Reinhard Stoettner, K. von (1887). A História dos
Cavalleiros da Mesa Redonda e da Demanda do
Santo Graal, Berlin: Druck und Verlag von
A. Haack.
Rumeu, M. C. B. (2013). A implementação do
‘”Você” no Português Brasileiro Oitocentista e
Novecentista: um estudo de painel. Rio de
Janeiro: Ítaca.
Squartini, M. (1998). Verbal Periphrases in
Romance. Aspect, Actionality and
Grammaticalization. Berlin: de Gruyter.
Squartini, M. and P. M. Bertinetto (2000).
The simple and compound past in Romance
languages. In Ö. Dahl (ed.), Tense and Aspect in
the Languages of Europe. Berlin: de Gruyter,
pp. 403–439.
Zilles, A. M. S. (2005). The development of a new
pronoun: the linguistic and social embedding
of “a gente” in Brazilian Portuguese. Language
Variation and Change, 17, pp. 19–53.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
Although the first available documents written in Portuguese are more recent than is the
case for many other European languages and although, when the language first appears in
texts, (Old) Portuguese already looks much closer to its modern descendant than Old French
or Old English do, the language born in the northwest of the Iberian Peninsula still offers, in
its development, a very useful case study for students of language change. In this chapter,
we will propose a description and analysis, framed in the principle‐and‐parameters frame‑
work of generative grammar, of the major syntactic changes found in Portuguese from the
first texts of the late twelfth century to the modern grammars of its two most widely spoken
current varieties, Modern European Portuguese and Modern Brazilian Portuguese. In
­
discussing these changes, we will depart from the traditional historical point of view and,
rather than considering the surviving texts of the older language as our objects of inquiry, we
will treat them as evidence, necessarily indirect, of the grammars of their authors. This move
from observable data to the underlying grammatical system that guided the production
of that data is inspired by the shift proposed by Chomsky (1986) from E‐Language to
I‐Language. By E‐language Chomsky intended to evoke External and Extensional language,
that is, observable data, and by I‐Language he meant Internal and Intensional language, that
is, the system of grammatical knowledge by virtue of which people can be speakers of a
given language. I‐Languages constitute the knowledge attained by children in the course of
language acquisition. They correspond, therefore, to parametrizations of the faculty of
­
language in which the choice points that allow for cross‐linguistic variability are given fixed
values. In what follows, we further adopt the approach to the theory of parameters origi‑
nally proposed by Hagit Borer, the so‐called “Borer–Chomsky” conjecture, according to
which the loci of parametric variability in grammar are the grammatical feature contents of
the functional projections (Tense, Aspect, Definiteness, etc.) that control syntactic structure.
Our aim in this essay will be to describe the successive I‐languages that underlie the
Portuguese E‐languages as manifested in the written texts that constitute its historical record.
The succession of I‐languages that we will present are defined by a specific sequence of
parametric changes and the texts we examine contain our evidence for the character of the
grammatical parameters involved and the timing of the changes in their settings.
One important aspect of our approach is that there is no necessary one‐to‐one connection
between texts and grammars. A text can be a locus where more than one grammar
is  expressed, hence diglossic, and in the course of a change such diglossic variation
Main Syntactic Changes from a
Principle‐and‐Parameters View
Charlotte Galves and
Anthony Kroch
27
488  Charlotte Galves and Anthony Kroch
can characterize a body of texts over an extended period of time. To be precise, a particular
instance of variation in morphosyntactic form found in texts can have two sources. On the
one hand, it can be produced by a single grammar, as when authors vary between the active
and the passive voice or between canonical word order and the topicalized or scrambled
placement of verbal complements. On the other hand, the observed variation may reflect the
competition between two grammars, that is, two different parameter settings. Among other
advantages, the notion of grammar competition (cf. Kroch 2001) allows us to reconcile the
point of view that grammatical changes must be abrupt, since they arise in the individual
when language acquirers change the setting of some parameter, with the fact that such
changes, as manifested in texts, normally exhibit text‐internal variation and take several
­
generations to go to completion.
Our chapter is organized as follows. Section 2 reformulates the traditional periodization
of European Portuguese on the basis of the shift in perspective from E‐language to I‐lan‑
guage. We then propose that the main syntactic features of the grammatical evolution of
Portuguese from the first written texts to modern European Portuguese can be accounted for
as a succession of three different grammars and we discuss the parameters involved in this
succession. In Section 3 we describe the main changes that characterize the syntactic history
of Brazilian Portuguese as it diverges from European Portuguese and discuss what parame‑
ters will best account for the changes. In Section 4, we summarize our findings and make
some concluding remarks.
2.  Parametric changes in European Portuguese
2.1.  How many stages are there in the history of Portuguese?
The traditional periodization of Portuguese (see Mattos e Silva 1994 for a survey) acknowl‑
edges three main periods: Old Portuguese (henceforth OP), from the first remaining manu‑
scripts of the beginning of the twelfth century to the first half of the sixteenth century,
Classical Portuguese (henceforth ClP), up to the eighteenth century and Modern European
Portuguese (henceforth EP) from 1800 on. In addition, several scholars divide OP into Galego‐
Portuguese (GP), up to the end of the fourteenth century, and Middle Portuguese (henceforth
MP), from roughly 1400 to the first half of the sixteenth century. The basis for this division is
primarily sociohistorical but is also grounded in linguistic characteristics, mostly phonolog‑
ical and morphological, since these two levels sharply differentiate GP and part of MP from
the subsequent periods (see Chapter 1, History and Current Setting). MP can be thought of
as the period in which the peculiarities of OP gradually disappear from texts.
When we turn to the syntax, given our perspective, we have two tasks: first to discover
the grammars that underlie the texts and then to determine how the parameter settings
defining them change over time. Note that, since we believe that grammar change occurs
abruptly and then spreads, we should define periods not by the disappearance of archaic
phenomena but by the appearance of innovations, since the latter signal the emergence of a
new grammar. Along these lines, Galves, Namiuti, and Paixão de Sousa (2006) proposed
that the history of European Portuguese has three grammatical stages.1
It begins with the
grammar that underlies the Old (or Galego‐) Portuguese texts. Then, at a certain point, a
new grammar appears, giving rise to a long period of morphosyntactic variation, the period
­
traditionally known as as Middle Portuguese. The purest expression of this new grammar
is found in the texts of the following Classical Portuguese (ClP) period, by which time the
OP grammar has died out. The final stage begins when a further new grammar emerges,
­
yielding a new competition. This grammar is the one underlying Modern European
Portuguese (EP).
Main Syntactic Changes from a Principle‐and‐Parameters View  489
The main difference between our periodization and the traditional one, which also
­
recognizes three periods, is that MP is no longer to be thought of as “late” OP and becomes
instead “early” ClP because MP is now analyzed as exhibiting a competition between the
grammar of OP and the new ClP grammar. In our view, the latter is probably already
the grammar of the vernacular language when variation first appears in texts. We should
note that, since we consider MP to be nothing but a competition in use between the grammars
of OP and ClP, the latter must, for us, begin to manifest itself in texts much sooner than
claimed by the tradition. For the subsequent transition from ClP to EP, the surviving data
are much more extensive than for the earlier period and several recent studies based on the
Tycho Brahe Corpus show clearly that EP first emerges in the writings of authors born after
1700 (Galves et al. 2005a; Antonelli 2011; among others). We discuss the evolution of this
stage in Section 2.3 below.
2.2.  The changes from OP to ClP
In discussing the development from OP to ClP, we concentrate on word‐order evidence,
­specifically clitic placement, scrambling, and the position of the verb, since those phenomena
have been well studied, both empirically and theoretically.2
With regard to clitic placement, it is important to remember that certain aspects of the
phenomenon remain constant, at least on the surface, throughout the history of Portuguese
on the European continent. For one thing, clitics may never appear as proclitics on a verb in
first position in a root sentence. On the other hand, there are contexts of obligatory proclisis
which never change or vary (see Chapter 12, Clitics: Phonology, Morphology and Syntax),
for example in tensed subordinate clauses. Non‐V1 main clauses, unless the sentence ­contains
preverbal elements that force proclisis, are the main context of historical variation. There
clitics are predominantly postverbal in OP, as in example (1), and predominantly ­
preverbal
in ClP, as in example (2) below.
(1)  é   Móór  eanes   obligouse   a dar   os filhus   a outorga (NO, 1273)
and Moor Eanes obliged‐se to give to.the sons the donation
	 (Martins 1994: 60, ex. 25)
(2) O brâmene lhe deu por isso seus agradecimentos,
The braman to.him gave for that his thanks,
“The Brahmin thanked him for that,” (Pinto, born1510)
Additionally, in a phenomenon known as “interpolation,” we find in older Portuguese that
embedded‐clause preverbal clitics can be separated from the verb by intervening phrases. In
OP the phrase can be of any syntactic function, including the subject (example (3)) but by the
time of ClP only negation survives as an interpolatable element (example (4)).
(3) assy como vola   os ditos Moesteyros derõ e outorgarõ (NO, 1285)
as well as to.you.it the said Monasteries gave and donate
	 (Martins 1994: 172, ex. 192)
(4) disse que llj nõ enbargava a meyadade (NO, 1289)
(Martins 1994: 162, ex. 3)
said that to.him not seized the half
Although we do find isolated examples of interpolation of other elements as late as the
sixteenth century, late examples are probably remnants of the competition between OP and
490  Charlotte Galves and Anthony Kroch
ClP in the texts. Some examples may reflect a third type of interpolation, restricted to
pronouns and a few adverbs (cf. Magro 2008), which lasted until the twentieth century in
dialectal Portuguese. Significantly, interpolation in OP is possible only in clauses where pro‑
clisis is obligatory, while in ClP the interpolation of negation is possible in any non‐V1 clause
(Namiuti 2008):
(5)  Dom Manoel de Lima o não quiz ouvir naquele negócio (Couto, born1542)
Dom Manoel de Lima him not wanted to hear in that business
Note also that, OP exhibits scrambling, a word‐order effect under which the (nominal,
clausal or verbal) complement of a main verb is displaced to the verb’s left, as illustrated
in (6). Such scrambling is always optional (compare (6) and (7)). Here are examples from
thirteenth‐century legal documents (Martins 2005: 182):
(6) sse pela uẽtujra uos alguẽ a dita vỹa enbargar
if by chance you‐dat someone the mentioned vineyard blocks
(7) sse pela uẽtujra uos alguẽ enbargar a dita vỹa
if by chance you‐dat someone blocks the mentioned vineyard
“and if by chance someone blocks the vineyard from you”
Following work on clitic placement in other medieval Romance languages (cf. Cardinaletti
and Roberts 2003 among others),3
Martins (1994, 2005) proposes that in OP, the enclitic
­
position of the pronoun is derived by movement of the verb across the position that hosts the
clitic. She argues that the verb moves to a high functional category, Sigma (Σ), which encodes
polarity. According to this author, Σ is strong in OP and, as such, must be lexicalized. When
C or NEG or some polarity marking item is not present, the verb fulfills this requirement by
moving to Σ, leaving the clitic in a string‐wise postverbal position.
In discussing the structural position of clitics, Martins asserts that they land in the
specifier of AgrSP, which in OP carries an EPP feature and allows multiple Specs. It is this
multiple spec property that licenses interpolation in cases like (3) and (4) above. “Because
clitics are minimal/maximal entities (Chomsky 1994, 1995), clitic movement may target
either a head or a Spec position. If the latter option is taken, clitics move into the same
domain as non‐clitic scrambled objects, that is Spec of AgrS. (…) [I]nterpolation (i.e. non
adjacency between the clitic and the verb) is derived with the clitic placed in the outer
Spec,AgrSP while scrambled objects or the subject occupy “embedded” Spec positions in
the AgrS domain” (Martins 2005: 176).4
Martins (1994) points out that as early as the
thirteenth century, some cases of proclisis are found in the absence of any polarity
sensitive element, the phenomenon that becomes dominant in the ClP period. This option,
she claims, is be to explained by the clitic’s ability to head‐adjoin to Σ when the latter hosts
the verb.
The dual nature of clitics as heads and as maximal projections explains another sort of
variation in OP: the optionality of interpolation, as illustrated by the existence of sentences
like (8), to be compared with (3) above:
(8) ca elle  o octorgava (NO, 1277)
because  he cl.acc.3  donated
“because he donated it”
	 (Martins 1994: 191, ex. 329)
In both (8) and (3), according to Martins, Σ is occupied by a conjunction (“ca” and “sse,”
respectively) and the verb is in AgrS. But while the clitic is adjoined as a head to AgrS in (8),
Main Syntactic Changes from a Principle‐and‐Parameters View  491
it moves as a phrase to the edge of Spec,AgrS in (3). According to the analysis presented
above, interpolation and scrambling are lost together because “AgrS loses the ability to select
multiple Specs” (Martins 2005: 186).
The decline of enclisis in ClP cannot be derived from the loss of V‐to‐Σ since the verb
­
continues to move to a high position (see Section 2.3 below). The fact that proclisis becomes
more and more frequent in contexts where enclisis had been dominant indicates that in ClP
enclisis is no longer ever a consequence of V‐movement. Since enclisis does not disappear
from European Portuguese, in contrast to the other Romance languages (see, for example,
Fontana 1993 for Spanish), the grammars underlying both OP and ClP produce both enclisis
and proclisis, but they do so partially by different means and at different rates in usage,
which are detectable in texts. In both OP and ClP, a prosodic requirement, the so‐called
Tobler–Mussafia Law (Salvi 1991; Galves et al. 2005a; Galves and Sandalo 2012), bars clitics
from appearing at the left edge of an Intonational Phrase and forces enclisis in V1 root
­sentences.5
In OP, however, enclisis is characteristic even in non‐V1 sentences and thus must
result largely from verb movement to a high position. In ClP, on the other hand, enclisis
serves only to fulfill the prosodic requirement.
To locate the verb in a high enough position in root clauses in OP to account for the dom‑
inance of enclitic placement, Martins places it in Σ but other researchers have argued that its
position is just C, and, therefore, that OP is a kind of V2 language (Salvi 1991; Ribeiro 1995).
Their claim is supported by the high frequency of sentences in which a non‐subject precedes
the verb, with the subject either following the verb or being null (Ribeiro 1995: 99). Sentences
(9) and (10) illustrate the orders OVS and XVSO, orders typical of V2 languages. In addition,
the adverb in (9) follows the subject, suggesting that the postverbal subject, and consequently
the verb to its left, are in a high position (cf. the discussion in Section 2.3 below):
 (9) E esta vertude de paceença ouve este santo monge Libertino mui
compridamente (DSG 1.5.5)
and this virtue of patience had this holy monk Libertino very fully
(10)  Com estas e outras taaes rrazoões arrefeçeo el‐rrei de sua brava sanha
For these and other such reasons cooled‐down the King from his brave fierceness
(CDP.7.62–63)
	 (Ribeiro (1995: 100, ex. h,q)
A significant problem for a V2 analysis of OP, however, is that the texts contain large num‑
bers of V1 and V3 sentences along with the expected V2 cases (cf. Sitaridou 2012 among
others). Indeed, in root clauses, Ribeiro herself reports about 20 percent V1 clauses and 15
percent V2 clauses in her thirteenth‐ and fourteenth‐century texts. Still, since V‐to‐C, even in
the Germanic languages, can be grammatically independent of the movement of a phrase to
Spec, CP, the data remain consistent with a V‐to‐C requirement or at least with a required
movement to a position higher than Tense.6
We will see in the next section that some such
movement requirement must have survived into ClP.
Summarizing the discussion to this point, the changes in word order from OP to ClP can
be said to follow from a parametric change in the properties of the functional head AgrS,
which loses its capacity to license multiple Specs. Hence, a single parameter change explains
the loss both of scrambling and of interpolation. Moreover, the evolution of clitic placement
is a by‐product of this change, given the plausible assumption that interpolation was the
main evidence for learners of the movement of clitics as phrases to the edge of AgrSP. As the
surface position of clitics becomes more and more frequently compatible with ordinary head
movement, the way opens for learners to reanalyze both proclisis and enclisis as outputs of
a postsyntactic (that is, morphological) rule governing the placement of the clitic at the left
492  Charlotte Galves and Anthony Kroch
versus right edge of the verb, independently of the verb’s syntactic position. Enclisis remains
in the language as a morphophonogical requirement, the Tobler–Mussafia law, which bars
clitics in first position in an intonational phrase. We see this result clearly in ClP, where, in
non‐V1 sentences, enclisis is frequent only when the constituent preceding the verb is
­
prosodically heavy enough to form an separate intonational phrase, a dependent clause or a
conjoined phrase (cf. Galves et al. 2005a),7
being marginal when preverbal phrases are sub‑
jects (cf. Figure 27.1), adverbs or simple PPs. Some exceptions can be found, as in the case of
Vieira’s Sermons, where enclisis reaches 52 percent of the cases. The fact that in all such
enclitic sentences in the sermons, the preverbal phrase receives the interpretation of
a   ­
contrastive topic (Galves 2002) reinforces the idea that clitic‐placement is sensitive to
prosody, since contrastive topics tend to be associated with an independent prosodic contour
(cf. Frascarelli and Hinterholzl 2007).
2.3.  The changes from ClP to EP
We consider that three main syntactic changes constitute the transition from ClP to EP.8
The
first again concerns clitic placement. As shown by Galves et al. (2005a), in the same contexts
where proclisis replaces enclisis from OP to ClP, enclisis replaces proclisis from ClP to EP, in
a gradual evolution beginning in texts written by authors born in the first quarter of the
­
eighteenth century and arriving at completion one and a half centuries later. The second
change affects the position of subjects and begins with the same generation of authors, whose
texts manifest an abrupt drop in the frequency of VS word order (Galves and Paixão de Sousa
2013). Figure 27.1 traces the evolution of the two changes.
Figure 27.1 shows the rise of enclisis with preverbal subjects (black diamonds) and the
decline of VS word order (grey triangles) in 16 authors born from 1502 to 1836, with each
point corresponding to the author’s birth date.9
Before 1700, the frequency of enclisis with
preverbal subjects ranges from 0 to 18 percent, with an overall mean of 6 percent for the
sixteenth and seventeenth centuries combined. These figures ignore its high frequency
(52 percent) in the sermons of Padre Vieira, which we believe to be a consequence of his
1.00
0.90
0.80
0.70
0.60
0.50
0.40
0.30
0.20
0.10
0.00
1450 1500
0.00
0.06
0.18
0.17
0.36
0.46
0.70
0.61
0.56 0.52
0.63
0.77
0.40
0.00
0.12
0.17
0.07
0.23 0.21 0.21
0.24
0.29
0.29
0.44
0.58
0.88
0.90
0.97
0.28
0.27
0.17
0.31
1550 1600 1650 1700 1750 1800 1850 1900
VS/SV Enclisis/Proclisis
Figure 27.1  Comparative evolution of VS order (vs. SV order) and of enclisis with preverbal
subjects, i.e., S‐Vcl (vs. S‐clV) (Galves and Paixao de Sousa 2013).
Main Syntactic Changes from a Principle‐and‐Parameters View  493
special style (see above). Over the same time span, VS appears with a frequency ranging
from 36 percent to 77 percent, with an overall mean of 56 percent for the same two centuries.
After 1700, the frequency of enclisis with preverbal subjects gradually increases, reaching 97
­
percent by the middle of the nineteenth century, while the frequency of VS drops abruptly to
a stable mean of approximately 25 percent for the entire course of the eighteenth and
nineteenth centuries.
With regard to the change in the position of subjects, we observe changes not only in the
frequency of VS, but also in its interpretation. Galves and Gibrail (forthcoming) show that in
ClP texts, in contrast to EP (cf. Costa 2004), postverbal subjects may receive a non‐focal inter‑
pretation, as illustrated in (11):
(11) e sendo este negócio dos maiores, que podia ter uma Monarquia, o fiou
and being this deal of the greatest, that could have a Monarchy, it entrusted
o animoso Rei inteiramente da intelligência e indústria de um só homem
the brave king entirely to the intelligence and industry of a only man
“and being among the greatest of deals which could have a Monarchy, the brave
king entrusted it entirely to the intelligence and industry of just one man”
Here the focus of the sentence is “da intelligência e indústria de um só homem,” while the
­
postverbal subject receives a “familiar topic” interpretation, since the king has already been
mentioned several times and is one of the established characters in the narrative. This usage,
which is extremely frequent in texts written by authors born in the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries, suggests that postverbal subjects in ClP can occupy a high position in the clause,
to the left of the right peripheral domain associated with normal focus assignment. This
behavior is accounted for if we adopt the hypothesis, put forward by several scholars
(cf. Antonelli 2011, among others), that in ClP the verb raises to the C domain in main clauses,
leaving the subject behind it in the specifier of Tense. This analysis is supported by the fact
postverbal subjects can precede manner and other VP peripheral adverbs, as in the Germanic
languages. Example (11) above illustrates this phenomenon in the placement of the adverb
“inteiramente.”
Our analysis assigns to ClP a syntactic property typical of V2 languages, namely leftward
movement of the verb to a position in the C domain. However, as in OP, verb movement to
C in ClP is not always accompanied by the movement of any phrase to Spec,CP. Galves and
Paixão de Sousa (2013) argue that Portuguese, unlike the Germanic V2 languages, allows
Spec,CP to remain empty. In the Germanic V2 languages, movement to Spec,CP derives from
two different sources: one is the presence of a formal feature in C that forces movement as a
last resort in every matrix declarative clause and the other is a discourse‐related feature that
triggers movement under certain information structural conditions (Light 2012). In ClP and
arguably in OP, the only licensor of XP‐movement to Spec,CP is the discourse‐related fea‑
ture. In the absence of a discourse motivation, no phrase moves to the preverbal position and
the verb remains initial. If our analysis is on the right track, the observed decline of VS in the
transition from from ClP to EP must reflect the loss of V‐to‐C, as it is clear that the modern
language lacks general V‐to‐C movement.
Another innovation in EP appears at the end of the eighteenth century (Andrade, 2015).
It is illustrated in (12) and (13) and concerns what Raposo (2004) calls “null object
­
constructions.” It consists in the option for a definite pronominal object to be replaced by a
null category, both in clauses with canonical word order (12b) and in topic‐first sentences
(13b). The latter case is so‐called “Topicalization,” whose existence distinguishes EP from
the other Romance languages, where null objects are restricted to indefinite or generic
interpretations and where fronted objects not doubled by clitics are interpreted as foci and
not as topics.
494  Charlotte Galves and Anthony Kroch
(12)  a.  Eu só o encontrei na FNAC.
I only it found in‐the FNAC.
b. Eu só encontrei __ na FNAC.
I only found __ at the FNAC.
(13)  a. Esse livro, eu só o encontrei na FNAC.
this book, I only it found in‐the FNAC.
b. Esse livro, eu só encontrei __ na FNAC.
this book, I only found __ at the FNAC.
Andrade (2015) claims that the rise of Topicalization in EP is another consequence of the
loss of V‐to‐C. He shows that from an information structural perspective, the construction
continues the Germanic‐style discourse‐related V2 construction of ClP. Both alternate with
Clitic Left‐Dislocation and do so at the same rate. He concludes that the loss of V‐to‐C
movement simply replaced TOP V S with TOP S V. As for null objects, according to Raposo
(1986), they are bound by a null topic at the left edge of the sentence. It is tempting, therefore,
to also derive the fronting of null objects in EP from the loss of V‐to‐C. Such a connection
would account for the fact that no cases of null topics, i.e null objects, have so far been found
in texts of the ClP period. This property, however, cannot be straightforwardly imputed to
V2 topicalization, since the V2 Germanic languages often do allow for null topics with
definite reference. Additionally, English, which is not a V2 language, allows Topicalization
but does not license null topics, showing that the correlation does not obtain in the other
direction either. We leave this interesting issue for further research.
Thus, it is clear that the most important parametric difference between ClP and EP is the
loss of V‐to‐C in declarative sentences. At the same time, the change in clitic placement
­
between ClP and EP cannot be said to follow from this parameter difference, since, as we
have said, enclisis in ClP reflects only a prosodic constraint (the Tobler–Mussafia Law), and
is independent of verb movement. Galves et al. (2005a) and Galves and Sandalo (2012) argue
that the prosodic constraint no longer holds in EP. One clear piece of evidence for this change
in the character of the constraint governing enclisis is a loss in sensitivity to the length of
preverbal clauses in sentences in which the verb immediately follows a dependent clause.
Before 1700, short preverbal clauses, those less likely to constitute independent Intonational
Phrases, are somewhat less likely to co‐occur with enclitic placement than longer clauses, a
difference that plausibly reflects a Tobler–Mussafia type prosodic effect. After 1700, however,
there is no appreciable difference in the likelihood of enclisis associated with the length of a
preverbal clause (see the bottom row in Table 27.1, taken from Galves and Kroch 2014).
Working within the framework of Distributed Morphology, Galves and Sandalo (2012)
propose that this loss of sensitivity to prosody results from a change in the domain of
Table 27.1  Effect of preposed clause length on frequency of enclisis by period.
Clauses > 8 words Clauses ≤ 8 words Percent long minus short
Before 1700
 Number 70 209
  Percent enclisis 60 47 13
After 1700
 Number 59 148
  Percent enclisis 71 68 3
Main Syntactic Changes from a Principle‐and‐Parameters View  495
application of the restriction against Clitic‐First. In ClP, the domain is prosodic (IntP), and
the rule is Prosodic Inversion, which applies after the structure is linearized. In EP, the
domain is syntactic (the local phase), and the rule is Lowering, which has access to syntactic
structure but not to prosody.
3.  Syntactic changes from European to Brazilian
Portuguese
According to the grammatical periodization we have proposed, there can be little doubt
that the version of Portuguese transplanted to Brazil was ClP. Although at the very
beginning of the colonization, the Portuguese of the settlers was often a minority dialect in
comparison to lingua franca versions of Tupi languages, it eventually came to dominate
throughout the country due to the joint effect of the permanent arrival of new Portuguese
settlers and of the widespread acquisition of Portuguese as a second language, mainly by
African slaves, who transmitted it as both a first and as a second language during the three
centuries of the slave trade. In the following discussion, we will present the most salient
morphosyntactic differences between Modern Brazilian Portuguese (henceforth BP) and
both ClP and EP. In Section 3.4, we will address the issue of the parameter changes respon‑
sible for these differences, which will lead us to introduce other significant features of
Brazilian Portuguese.
3.1.  Less and more agreement
As described in Chapter 31, Main Current Processes of Morphosyntactic Variation, BP dis‑
plays variable verbal and nominal agreement in contexts where it is categorical in European
Portuguese, a phenomenon that has led some to argue that BP went through a phase of cre‑
olization (Guy 1981). The variability of verbal agreement affects both number and person
and in most regions of Brazil, the 2nd person singular inflection is no longer part of the
verbal paradigm.10
Less well analyzed until recently are the agreement facts correlated with the “topic‐­
oriented” properties of BP, first described by Pontes (1987). Pontes showed that, as in
“topic‑oriented” languages like Chinese, BP has sentences in which the first constituent DP
is not the subject but some locative or genitive argument, immediately followed by the verb
and its internal argument(s), as in (14) and (15):11
(14)  A Sarinha nasceu dois dentes
the  Sarinha  was‐born.sg  two  teeth
“Sarinha has got two teeth.”
(15) Estas casas batem muito sol
these  houses  strike.pl  much  sun
“There is too much sun on this house”
The possibility of agreement between the verb and the preverbal DP in such constructions
sharply distinguishes BP from both ClP and EP, where it is completely impossible (cf. Costa
2010). This sort of agreement is also found in the Portuguese spoken as a second language in
Mozambique (Gonçalves, 2010), suggesting that it is an result of contact with African
languages.
496  Charlotte Galves and Anthony Kroch
3.2.  A new pronominal system
The core facts of the BP pronominal paradigm and syntax are as follows (cf. Chapters 31
Main Current Processes of Morphosyntactic Variation and 13 The Null Subject Parameter
and the Structure of the Clause):
•	 Accusative and dative clitic pronouns vary with strong pronouns (16).
•	 Null objects tend to replace 3rd person accusative clitics (17).
•	 The clitic pronouns “lhe” and “te” and accordingly possessive pronouns “teu” and
“seu,”vary freely in referring to the 2nd person (respectively (18) and (19)).
(16)  a.  Eu não te vi ontem
I not cl2 saw  yesterday
b. Eu  não  vi você ontem
I not saw  you yesterday
	 “I did not see you yesterday”
(17) %Eu  não (o) vi
 I not  cl3Sg  saw
“I did not see him”
(18) Eu  te/lhe dei esse livro
I cl 2/3.dat  gave  this  book
“I gave you this book”
(19) Você  trouxe teu/seu livro?
you brought  POS2/3  book
“Did you bring your book?”
Examples (16)–(19) show that clitics with 3rd person reference disappear from the
spoken language and that, consistent with the absence of the 2nd person in the verbal
paradigm, the 2nd and the 3rd person forms no longer bear distinct pronominal ­features.
Furthermore, tonic pronouns apparently bear no morphological case features, since
they appear in all positions with the same form and since, in colloquial spoken BP, clitic
doubling occurs between an object clitic and a strong form pronoun that is nominative
in EP:
(20) Me leva eu  contigo
1pcl  take I with‐you
“Take me with you”
It is especially noteworthy that BP differs from ClP/EP in its clitic placement grammar.
Clitics in BP can occur in absolute first position, contrasting with what is observed in
all periods of the European language. Furthermore, the category to which clitics attach
is different. In ClP/EP, they adjoin to the tensed verbal form, whether an auxiliary or
the thematic verb, while in BP they are proclitic on the thematic verb, whether tensed
or  not (cf. Galves et al. 2005b. and Chapter  2 The Main Varieties of Portuguese: An
Overview).
Main Syntactic Changes from a Principle‐and‐Parameters View  497
3.3.  Fewer null subjects and more null objects
EP and BP are both null subject and null object languages, but they differ in the grammar of
these properties. Null objects are less constrained in BP than in EP, since they can be used
inside syntactic islands, and are the most frequent strategy to refer back to an antecedent in
discourse (Duarte 1989). Null subjects, on the other hand, are more constrained in BP than in
EP, leading many researchers to argue that BP is only a Partial Null Subject language (hence‑
forth PNS, cf. Chapter 13 The Null Subject Parameter and the Structure of the Clause). One
of the characteristic properties of such PNS languages is the possibility of interpreting the
null subject of a tensed clause as indeterminate in reference. This usage occurs in BP, as
illustrated in the following dialogue drawn from a comic strip:
(21)  a.  Q:  Onde   está minha cueca  de dinossauro?
Where  is my  pants of dinosaurs
   “Where are my pants with the dinosaurs?”
b. A: Está  lavando
is  washing
   (i) “Somebody is washing them”
   (ii) “They are being washed”
Two interpretations are available for (21)b. Either the null subject is indeterminate and the
null object refers to the discourse topic (i) or the null subject is interpreted as the topic itself
and the sentence is a kind of passive (ii). This ambiguity is even more evident in the follow‑
ing example, drawn from an advertisement, where the topic (“Tapete de Madeira” Carpet of
Wood) is both the thematic subject of the unergative verb “encolhe” (shrink) in b., and the
thematic object of the transitive verb “encera” (polish) in c.
(22)  a.  [Tapete  de  Madeira]i
carpet of wood
b. [e]i
Não encolhe
not shrinks
c. Não encera [e]i
not polishes
“Wood carpet”
“It does not shrink”
“One does not need to polish it”/“It does not need to be polished”
In EP, (22c) would require the presence of indefinite/passivizing se: “Não se encera.”
Indeterminate se‐constructions, as well, usually occur without “se” in spoken BP, an option
that is impossible in EP.
(23) a. Aqui conserta  
sapatos (BP)
here repair.3sg shoes
b. Aqui  conserta(m)‐se sapatos (ClP/EP)
here repair.3sg(pl)‐refl  shoes
Here shoes are repaired
The examples in (21b), (22c) and (23a) are all consistent with the characterization of BP as a
PNS language.
To sum up, in the process of developing in the New World, BP lost morphology: it lost
the  2nd/3rd person distinction, it lost obligatory plural agreement on nouns, and
498  Charlotte Galves and Anthony Kroch
person/number agreement became variable on verbs. The language also came to avoid 3rd
person clitics and non‐reflexive se‐constructions. Thus, BP has less morphology than EP and
has syntactic characteristics distinct from the whole Romance family, including as it does,
agreement processes typical of other families of languages, in particular Niger–Congo lan‑
guages, that systematically display agreement with “non‐subject” preverbal phrases (Baker
2008). Still, it retains, in contrast to Creole languages, a substantial amount of flexional mor‑
phology. Given this complex situation, even if BP was never precisely a creole, we can sup‑
pose that the intimate processes of contact that Portuguese underwent in Brazil deeply
affected its syntax.12
In the next section, we shall see that this reflects in the nature of the
parametric changes that occurred from ClP to BP.
3.4.  The parametric changes from ClP to BP
The properties described above raise challenging questions for Parameter Theory. Following
Pontes” typologically based analysis, several researchers have argued that BP is a topic‐
oriented language (Galves 1993; Negrão 1999; Negrão e Viotti 2000). From a Borer–Chomsky‐
type principles and parameters perspective, this characterization must be formulated in
terms of feature properties of one or more functional heads. Several proposals have been
made along these lines, attributing new characteristics to Tense or Agreement or both. One
idea is that the features of the head of a clause are in some sense weak in BP, which would
explain not only the variability in the morphological realization of Agreement but also the
pronominal paradigm, in which the 2nd and 3rd person are non‐distinct, as well as the pecu‑
liar properties of null subjects.13
A third property that can be accounted for in this way is the
fact that, for many speakers, the subject position of tensed clauses seems to allow A‐extrac‑
tion, as evidenced by the grammaticality of hyper‐raising, as in (24):
(24)  Os meninosi
parecem que ti
fizeram a tarefa
the boys seem.3pl that _ did.3pl the homework
Ferreira (2009) derives both hyper‐raising and the properties of null subjects in BP from
incompleteness in the phi‐features of Tense, which makes finite T behave like non‐finite T in
that it “is unable to eliminate [i.e., check] the Case feature of the moved element” (Ferreira
2009: 29), forcing the subject to move further. For him, null subjects in BP are, in general, not
null pronouns but rather traces of displaced subjects, as in hyper‐raising.
The idea that referential null subjects in BP are not null pronouns but anaphors (i.e.,
A‐bound empty categories), or variables (i.e., A‐bar bound empty categories), goes back to
Figueiredo Silva (1996), and was developed in different ways by Modesto (2004) and
Rodrigues (2004). For the former, null subjects are not derived by movement but are base‐
generated as parts of a topic chain, a behavior that would be correlated with the fact that BP
is a topic‐oriented language; in particular, BP would have a special position for topics always
projected in the CP layer. Rodrigues (2004) argues that 1st person null pronouns move to
such a topic position and are then deleted, while 3rd person definite null pronouns, found
only in embedded clauses, are traces of movement to the subject position.14
For all of the authors mentioned, the fact that BP null subjects behave differently from
those of other Romance pro‐drop languages is correlated with the weakening of the verbal
morphology, which reflects some deficiency of T/Agr. However, instead of losing pro‐drop,
as French did, BP became a PNS language, perhaps because of widespread diglossia between
the spoken vernacular and the EP‐based language of the elite. In some analyses (for example
those of Modesto and Rodrigues), this development is explicitly correlated with the topic‐
oriented properties of the language. Going a step further, Negrão and Viotti (2000) argue that
BP restrictions on the use of null subjects do not derive from weakening of the inflectional
Main Syntactic Changes from a Principle‐and‐Parameters View  499
morphology, but as a consequence of the discourse‐oriented properties of the language,
which entail that “the recoverability of empty categories occurs via discourse prominence”
(Negrão and Viotti 2000: 109).
It is clear that more than one parameter is at stake in the differences between BP and both
ClP and EP. The facts that led Pontes to claim that BP was a topic‐oriented language (cf.
examples (14)–(15) above) do not derive straightforwardly from the deficiency of T/Agr, nor
does the use of strong pronouns instead of clitics (cf. (16)) or the special position of the latter.
Avelar and Galves (2011) derive the topic‐oriented properties of BP by adopting the claim of
Holmberg (2010) that in some languages (e.g., Icelandic) the EPP features of T are phi‐
independent, in the sense that the attraction of some DP to the specifier of T is independent
of the agreement processes induced by phi‐features. Relying on a recent version of the min‑
imalist framework, the authors then propose that in BP the EPP features of Tense are satisfied
before T is merged with C and inherits its features from C. Given Chomsky’s (2008) defini‑
tion of A and A‐bar positions, it follows from this analysis that Spec/T counts as an A‐bar
position, which explains why extraction is possible from the subject position of tensed sen‑
tences in hyper‐raising constructions: hyper‐raising movement can then go through Spec/C,
an undoubted A‐bar position, to the subject position of the matrix clause, which is now also
an A‐bar position.
There is another question raised by sentences like (14)–(15): What is the source of case for
the postverbal DP? Avelar and Galves (2011) answer that DPs in BP can be inserted into the
derivation without a case feature.15
This possibility also accounts for the invariability of tonic
pronouns in subject and object position (cf. (16)). Moreover, given the relationship between
case and agreement in Chomsky (2008), the variability of subject–verb agreement can be
explained in a similar way: Only when the DP enters the derivation with Case‐features is
agreement instantiated.16
Finally, consider the innovative clitic placement in BP by which the clitic is affixed to the
non‐inflected form of the thematic verb, in contrast with EP, where the clitic must raise to the
inflected auxiliary. We can assume that lack of syntactic movement to Inflection is indeed
due to the weakness of T/
Agr. Given this, in accord with the morphological constraint that
yields proclisis, clitics are moved by local dislocation to the left of V in the post‐syntactic
component of the grammar. From this point of view, they can be considered as allomorphs
of the tonic pronouns, differing from them phonologically with respect to the clitic feature,
and additionally, if we follow Avelar and Galves (2011) with respect to the case feature.
4.  Concluding remarks
The analyses we have discussed are summarized in Table 27.2, where the values in boldface
indicate changes relative to the values in prior historical stages of the language.
From Table 27.2 and the discussion that it summarizes we can see that there has been
large‐scale surface variation throughout the history of the Portuguese E‐language(s).
Nonetheless, we find that the grammatical parameters needed to account for the changes we
have tracked, not only the internal ones but also those associated with language contact in
Brazil, are limited in number. It is even possible, though beyond the scope of this paper to
investigate, that some of the parameters that distinguish BP from EP could be merged into a
single one via the weakening of morphological marking. Perhaps more likely is the possi‑
bility that such weakening, arising out of language contact, affected several grammatical
parameters simultaneously via language acquisition, by reducing the evidence for various
syntactic properties which then revert to default values.
There is, of course, much uncertainty regarding the details both of Portuguese grammar
and of linguistic theory, so that the results we have presented can only be considered
500  Charlotte Galves and Anthony Kroch
tentative, though we think it unlikely that future discoveries will undermine our general
parametric approach. In one domain, however, recent theoretical developments have had a large
effect on the sort of analysis we think most promising: the domain of the evolution of clitic
placement. Here we have followed several recent studies in claiming that the alternation bet‑
ween enclisis and proclisis is governed in part by the morphological component of the grammar,
relying on operations defined by the theory of Distributed Morphology. If this approach is sound,
it means that there are linguistic phenomena, in our case clitic placement, whose historical evo‑
lution undergoes a change in the grammatical module governing them. Since the morphological
component of grammar is independent of the narrow syntax, allowing both modules to affect
clitic placement implies the possibility of greater surface variability than a purely syntactic
approach would lead one to expect. The actual history of Portuguese seems to require this extra
flexibility and we hope to have shown that it allows us not only to describe the grammatical
­
systems involved but also to account in an insightful way for the transitions between them.
notes
This research was partially funded by the Fapesp grant 2012/06078-9 and the CNPq grant
309764/2014–9.
1	Against Martins (1994) who argues that the language changes directly from OP to EP.
2	 Other changes include the loss of features typical of Gallo‐Romance syntax like “ende,” auxiliary
shift, agreement with objects (see Mattos e Silva 1994). As far as we know, there is nothing about the
diachronic evolution of these phenomena in the generative literature.
3	 For Cardinaletti and Roberts, the movement of the verb is a last resort process that prevents the clitic
from being in first position in the C domain. Their analysis, however, only accounts for enclisis with
verbs in absolute first position and fails to explain the high frequency of enclisis with V2 in OP.
4	 In order for her analysis to derive the right word order of interpolation, Martins adopts the Edge
Principle proposed by Raposo, which requires that clitics always appear on the edge of the category
to which they adjoin.
5	 Adopting Martins’ analysis of proclisis in main clauses forces us to assume that the Tobler–Mussafia
Law is already operative in OP. Otherwise, we would expect proclisis to be possible in V1 sentences
when the clitic raises to C as a head attached to the verb.
6	 The question remains of deciding whether this functional category is part of the IP layer or the CP layer.
We will assume the minimal hypothesis that there is no functional category above T in the IP layer.
7	Note that the frequency of enclisis in such cases varies widely from author to author (cf. Galves et al.
2005a).
8	 The data in this section are drawn from the Tycho Brahe Corpus of Historical Portuguese
(TBC). cf. http://www.tycho.iel.unicamp.br/~tycho/corpus.
Table 27.2  Evolving parameters in the history of Portuguese.
OP ClP EP BP
Multiple AgrS specifiers yes no no no
C attracts V yes yes no no
Phi‐dependent EPP in T yes yes yes no
Deficient T/Agr no no no yes
Obligatory case feature on DP yes yes yes no
Restriction against Cl1 yes:
prosodic
yes:
prosodic
yes:
morphosyntactic
no
Main Syntactic Changes from a Principle‐and‐Parameters View  501
  9	 Figure 27.1 is based on data drawn from 16 syntactically‐parsed texts written by authors born from
1502 to 1836. The data were extracted from non‐dependent clauses, and concern all the verbs
except ser “to be.”
10	 It is important to note that agreement is variable in all social classes (cf. Chapter 31).
11	 For generative analyses of this phenomenon, see Galves (1998); Avelar and Galves (2011), Munhoz
and Naves (2012); Andrade and Galves (2014), among others.
12	 In the terms of Holm (2004), BP is a “restructured language.”
13	 The weakness of T/Agr can also explain the properties of verb‐movement in BP, as argued by
Galves 1993.
14	 This analysis relies on a revision of the theory of thematic roles under which theta roles are features
to be valued.
15	 This exotic feature of BP could be due again to contact with African languages. For evidence in
favor of the absence of case features in Bantu languages, see Diercks (2012).
16	 This approach entails that T should bear phi‐features when agreement is instantiated. Avelar and
Galves (2011) do not address this question.
References
Andrade, A. (forthcoming). On the emergence of
topicalization in Modern European Portuguese:
a study at the syntax‐information structure
interface. Estudos Linguísticos, CLUNL.
Andrade, A. and C. Galves (2014). Aunified analysis
for subject topics in Brazilian Portuguese. Journal
of Portuguese Linguistics, 13 (1), pp. 117–148.
Antonelli, A. (2011). Sintaxe de posição do verbo
e mudança gramatical na história do
português europeu. Ph.D. dissertation,
University of Campinas.
Avelar, J. and C. Galves (2011). Tópico e
concordância em português brasileiro e
português europeu. In A. Costa, I. Falé, and P.
Barbosa (eds.), Textos Seleccionados: Actas do
XXVI Encontro Nacional da Associação
Portuguesa de Linguística, pp. 49–65.
Baker, M. (2008). The Syntax of Agreement and
Concord. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Cardinaletti, A. and I. Roberts (2003). Clause
structure and X‐Second. In G. Cinque (ed.),
Functional Structure in DP and IP. The
Cartography of Syntactic Structures, vol. 1.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, pp.
123–166.
Chomsky, N. (1986). Knowledge of Language: Its
Nature, Origin, and Use. New York: Praeger.
Chomsky, N. (1994). Bare Phase Structure. MIT
Working Papers, Cambridge, MA: MIT.
Chomsky, N. (1995). The Minimalist Program,
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. (2008). On phases. In R. Freidin, C.
Otero, and M. L. Zubizarreta (eds.),
Foundational Issues in Linguistic Theory.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, pp. 133–166.
Costa, J. (2004). Subject Positions and Interfaces: The
Case of European Portuguese. Amsterdam: de
Gruyter.
Costa, J. (2010). PB e PE: orientação para o
discurso importa? Estudos da Lingua(gem), 8 (1),
pp. 123–144.
Diercks, M. (2012). Parameterizing Case:
Evidence from Bantu. Syntax, 15 (3),
pp. 253–286.
Duarte, M. E. (1989). Clítico acusativo, pronome
lexical e categoria vazia no português do
Brasil. In F. Tarallo (ed.), Fotografias
Sociolingüísticas. Campinas: Editora da
Unicamp, pp. 19–34.
Ferreira, M. (2009). Null subject and finite control
in Brazilian Portuguese. In J. Nunes (ed.),
Minimalist Essays on Brazilian Portuguese
Syntax. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 17–49.
Figueiredo Silva, C. (1996). A Posição Sujeito Em
Português Brasileiro – Frases Finitas e Infinitivas.
Campinas: Editora da Unicamp.
Fontana, J. (1993). Phrase‐structure and the
syntax of clitics in the history of Spanish.
Ph.D. dissertation, University of
Pennsylvania.
Frascarelli, M. and R. Hinterholzl (2007). Types of
topics in German and Italian. In S. Winkler and
K. Schwabe (eds.), On Information Structure,
Meaning and Form. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins, pp. 87–116.
Galves, C. (1993). O enfraquecimento da
concordância no português brasileiro. In M.
Kato and I. Roberts (eds.), Português Brasileiro:
Uma Viagem Diacrônica. Campinas: Editora da
Unicamp, pp. 387–403.
502  Charlotte Galves and Anthony Kroch
Galves, C. (1998). Tópicos, sujeitos, pronomes e
concordância no português brasileiro. Caderno
de Estudos Linguísticos, 34, pp. 7–21.
Galves, C. (2002). Syntax and style: clitic‐
placement in Padre Antonio Vieira. Santa
Barbara Portuguese Studies, 6, pp. 387–403.
Galves, C., H. Britto, and M. C. Paixão de Sousa
(2005). [Galves et al. 2005a] The change in clitic
placement from Classical to Modern European
Portuguese: results from the Tycho Brahe
Corpus. Journal of Portuguese Linguistics, 4 (1),
pp. 39–68.
Galves, C. and A. Gibrail (forthcoming). Subject
inversion in transitive sentences from Classical
to Modern European Portuguese: a corpus‐
based study. To appear in A. Cardoso and
A. M. Martins (eds.), Word Order Change.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Galves, C. and A. Kroch (2014). Syntactic
changes in the history of Portuguese: a
corpus‐based approach. Paper presented at
the Linguistics Department Colloquium Series,
York University. http://www.tycho.iel.
unicamp.br/~tycho/pesquisa/, accessed
November 6, 2015.
Galves, C., C. Namiuti, and M . C. Paixão de
Sousa (2006). Novas perguntas para antigas
questões: a periodização do português
revisitada. In A. Endruschat, R. Kemmler, and
B. Schäfer‐Prie (eds.), Grammatische Structuren
des Europäischen Portugiesisch. Tubingen:
Calapinus Verlag, pp. 45–75.
Galves, C. and M. C. Paixão de Sousa (2013). The
loss of verb‐second in the history of
Portuguese: subject position, clitic placement
and prosody. Revised version of the paper
presented at DIGs 12, Cambridge. http://
www.tycho.iel.unicamp.br/~tycho/pesquisa/,
accessed November 6, 2015.
Galves, C., I. Ribeiro, and M. A. Torres Moraes
(2005). [Galves et al. 2005b] Syntax and
morphology in the placement of clitics
in European and Brazilian Portuguese.
Journal of Portuguese Linguistics, 4 (2),
pp. 143–177.
Galves, C. and F. Sandalo (2012). From
intonational phrase to syntactic phase: the
grammaticalization of enclisis in the history of
Portuguese. Lingua, 122 (8), pp. 952–974.
Gonçalves, P. (2010). A Gênese do Português de
Moçambique. Lisbon: INCM.
Guy, G. (1981). Linguistic variation in Brazilian
Portuguese: aspects of phonology, syntax and
language history. Ph.D. dissertation,
University of Pennsylvania.
Holm, J. (2004). Languages in Contact. The Partial
Restructuring of Vernaculars. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Holmberg, A. (2010). Null subject parameters. In
T. Biberauer, A. Holmberg, I. Roberts, and
M. Sheehan (eds.), Parametric Variation: Null
subjects in Minimalist Theory. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, pp. 88–124.
Kroch, A. (2001). Syntactic change. In M. Baltin
and C. Collins (eds.), The Handbook of
Contemporary Syntactic Theory. Oxford:
Blackwell, pp. 699–729.
Light, C. (2012). The syntax and pragmatics of
fronting in Germanic. Ph.D. dissertation,
University of Pennsylvania.
Magro, C. (2008). Clíticos: variação sobre o tema.
Ph.D. dissertation, University of Lisbon.
Martins, A. M. (1994). Clíticos na história do
português. Ph.D. dissertation, University of
Lisbon.
Martins, A. M. (2005). Clitic placement, VP‐
ellipsis and scrambling in romance. In M.
Batllori, M.‐L. Hernanz, C. Picallo, and F. Roca
(eds.), Grammaticalization and Parametric
Change. Oxford: Oxford University Press,
pp. 175–193.
Mattos e Silva, R. V. (1994). Para uma
caracterização do período arcaico do
português. D.E.L.T.A, 10, pp. 247–276.
Modesto, M. (2004). Sujeitos nulos em línguas de
tópico proeminente. Revista da Abralin, 3 (1–2),
pp. 121–148.
Munhoz, A. and R. Naves (2012). Construções de
tópico‐sujeito: uma proposta em termos de
estrutura argumental e de transferência de
traços de C. Signum, 15, pp. 245–265.
Namiuti, C. (2008). Aspectos da história
gramatical do português. Interpolação,
negação e mudança. Ph.D. dissertation,
University of Campinas.
Negrão, E. (1999). Português brasileiro: Uma
língua voltada para o discurso. Ph.D.
dissertation, University of São Paulo.
Negrão, E. and E. Viotti (2000). Brazilian
Portuguese as a discourse‐oriented
language. In M. Kato and E. Negrão (eds.),
Brazilian Portuguese and the Null Subject
Parameter. Frankfurt: Vervuert Verlag,
pp. 105–125.
Pontes, E. (1987). O Tópico no Português do Brasil.
Campinas: Pontes.
Raposo, E. (1986). On the null object construction
in European Portuguese. In O. Jaeggli and C.
Silva‐Corvalan (eds.) Studies in Romance
Linguistics, Dordrecht: Foris, pp. 373–390.
Main Syntactic Changes from a Principle‐and‐Parameters View  503
Raposo, E. (2000). Clitic Positions and Verb
Movement. In J. Costa (ed.) Portuguese Syntax:
New Comparative Studies. Oxford University
Press, Oxford, pp. 266–297.
Raposo, E. (2004). Objetos nulos e CLLD: uma
teoria unificada. Revista da Abralin, 3 (1–2),
pp. 41–73.
Ribeiro, I. (1995). A sintaxe da ordem no
português arcaico; o efeito V2. Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Campinas.
Rodrigues, C. (2004). Impoverished morphology
and A‐movement out of case domains. Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Maryland.
Salvi, G. (1991). La sopravvivenza della legge di
Wackernagel nei dialettioccidentali della
peninsola iberica. Medioevo Romanzo, 15,
pp. 177–210.
Sitaridou, J. (2012). A comparative study of word
order in Old Romance. Folia Linguistica, 46 (2),
pp. 553–604.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
Variation studies in Brazil predominantly have a sociolinguistic orientation, with as their
main methodological foundation the pioneering work of William Labov (Labov, 1966, 1972;
Weinreich, Labov, and Herzog, 1968). The 1970s saw the first sociolinguistic projects with a
focus on variable phonological processes identified in different spoken‐language corpora.
This type of research started at the Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro with a group of
researchers coordinated by Anthony Naro. Since then, several research groups in different
regions have been formed, whose work has significantly increased our knowledge of phono-
logical variation in the different variants of spoken Brazilian Portuguese (BP).
Along with the variationist studies, extensive dialectal studies have been carried out,
culminating in the ongoing project of the Linguistic Atlas of Brazil (Atlas Linguístico do
Brasil—AliB), of national significance, supervised by Suzana Cardoso.
Unlike the case in Brazil, sociolinguistic variation in Portugal has not yet received much
attention, although a few sociolinguistic studies with different theoretical orientations have
been carried out during the last decades, which will be discussed in this chapter. Instead,
variation studies in Portugal cover, above all, regional differences, especially those between
the northern and the central‐southern dialects. These two broad dialect areas of Portugal are
distinguished on the basis of the isoglosses involving the coronal and labial fricatives in the
syllable onset. The fricatives /s z/ emerge in the central‐southern region (including the
dialect of the Lisbon urban area, which is considered the standard dialect of European
Portuguese (EP)), whereas the more conservative apical pronunciation /s̺ z̺/ is typical of the
north, though some areas preserve a complex system of four sibilants (two apical and two
dento‐alveolar) (Segura, 2013). Also, the bilabial fricative /β/ characteristic of the northern
dialects corresponds with the labio‐dental fricative /v/ in all the central‐southern dialects.
As a matter of fact, most consonantal isoglosses concur in defining these two major dialects
in EP. Within the two main areas several subareas are often identified, which differ mainly
in their vowel systems (all the geographical areas mentioned are included in the dialectal
map presented in the following section).
This chapter aims to treat the more significant variable phonological processes of Brazilian
and European Portuguese. In our exposition of the data we will first discuss the variation in
the vocalic sounds, for both varieties, after which we turn to the consonantal variation.
Main Current Processes
of Phonological Variation
Celeste Rodrigues and
Dermeval da Hora
28
Main Current Processes of Phonological Variation  505
2.  Vowel variation
Both EP and BP realize a symmetrical seven‐vowel system under stress: /i, e, ε, a, u, o, ɔ/.
Table 28.1 presents the distinctive feature definition of the vowel phonemes in Portuguese
that will be used throughout this chapter, without any strong commitment regarding the way
in which the distinction between upper and lower mid‐vowels is defined. Unlike some other
scholars, we assign the low vowel to a separate aperture class (see Mateus and Andrade
(2000)andWetzels(2011)fordiscussionofthequestionofaperturedistinctionsinPortuguese1
).
Some scholars consider [ɐ] a phonological vowel of the EP vowel system (see Veloso, 2012
for discussion). In EP, [ɐ] is the typical unstressed allophone of /a/. In addition to that, [ɐ]
emerges in two other contexts: as the allophone of the stressed verbal theme vowel /a/
before the nasal consonant of the 1pl present suffix –mos in forms such as amamos [ɐmɐ́muʃ]
“we love” or ficamos [fikɐ́muʃ] “we stay,” or as the allophone of the front mid‐vowels /e/ or
/ɛ/ before palatal sounds: abelha [ɐbɐ́ʎɐ] “bee,” also when unstressed: coelhinho [kwɐʎíɲu]
“little rabbit.” The 1pl present forms contrast with the corresponding 1pl past forms, which
have [a] instead of [ɐ]: ficámos [fikámuʃ], falámos [fɐlámuʃ] in the southern dialects of EP
(including the standard one).2
The northern dialects merge the present and past forms, which
all show stressed [ɐ], whereas the central‐southern dialects still maintain the contrast.
2.1.  The stressed vowel system: dialectal variation in EP
Following Cintra (1971), Segura (2013) recognizes two main dialectal areas in the Portuguese
mainland,3
both of them containing subareas with some characteristic features of their own.
Figure 28.1 shows the dialectal areas and subareas that are relevant for the discussion in this
chapter.4
The extreme southwest (Barlavento ofAlgarve) as well as the interior part of central Portugal
show some typical features within the central‐southern region and so does the northwest
within the northern dialect area. These subareas have different vowel inventories, which are
still in need of a detailed analysis. The phonological status of some vowel sounds remains as
yet unclear (Brissos and Rodrigues, forthcoming). We will therefore not comment on the spec-
ificities of the segments that are proposed as part of the vowel systems, since the differences
with the standard Lisbon vowel inventory have not been made sufficiently clear as yet.
Dialectologists have identified the following three vowel systems:
1.	 Within the central‐southern dialects, one finds in the interior of Alto Alentejo and of Beira
Baixa the system /i e ɛ ə̦ a ɔ o ɵ ʉ/ (Brissos, 2012, 2014a).
2.	 The southwestern part of Portugal, which roughly coincides with the Algarve region has
the system: /i e ɛ æ ɒ ɔ̝ o y/ (Segura, 2013).
3.	 The northwestern part of Portugal, comprising Minho and the Douro coastal region,
diverges from the standard language for having replaced a number of vowels with diph-
thongs (Brissos and Rodrigues, forthcoming).
Table 28.1  Stressed vowel system of BP and EP.
Coronal Dorsal Labial
High i u
Upper Mid e o
Lower Mid ɛ ɔ
Low a
506  Celeste Rodrigues and Dermeval da Hora
Recently, different local inventories of stressed vowels were found as part of a broad
dialectal research based on data extracted from the ALEPG corpus—Atlas Linguístico e
Etnográfico de Portugal e da Galiza—through the Acoustic Atlas of Portuguese Stressed Vowels
(AVOC) (Brissos, 2014a, b; Brissos and Saramago, 2014). AVOC provides an acoustic analysis
of the vowel systems encountered, which will soon be available online. These studies show
that the dialects of the center and the south are more heterogeneous than was suggested by
earlier impressionistic descriptions (Cintra, 1971).
Dialectos portugueses setentrionais
Dialectos transmontanos e alto-minhotos
Dialectos baixo-minhotos-durienses-beirões
Dialectos portugueses centro-meridionais
Dialectos do centro litoral
Dialectos do centro interior e do sul
FARO
BEJA
ÉVORA
SANTARÉM
LEIRIA
COIMBRA
CASTELO BRANCO
GUARDA
BRAGANÇA
VILA REAL
PORTO
BRAGA
VIANA
DO
CASTELO
VISEU
AVEIRO
PORTALEGRE
SETÚBAL
LISBOA
Limite de região subdialectal com
características peculiares bem diferenciadas
Figure 28.1  Dialectal and subdialectal areas in mainland Portugal.
Main Current Processes of Phonological Variation  507
In the standard language as well as in the dialects of the north, the coronal mid‐vowels /e/
and /ɛ/ undergo a process of centralization before a palatal sound. Before tautosyllabic [j], these
vowels are centralized independently of being stressed or unstressed, whereas before the
hetero‐syllabic consonants [ʃ], [ʒ], [ʎ], [ɲ] centralization of coronal mid‐vowels only occurs
under stress. This process is illustrated with the words in (1) and (2) below.5
In the standard
and northern dialects, the words in (2) may also surface with an epenthetic palatal glide: [ɐj].
(1)  Tautosyllabic centralization
leite [lɐ́j.tɨ] “milk” leiteiro [lɐj.tɐ́j.ɾu] “milkman”
lei [lɐ́j] “law” respeitar [rɨʃ.pɐj.táɾ] “respect”
areia [ɐ.ɾɐ́j.ɐ] “sand” europeizar [ew.ɾupɐj.záɾ] “europeanize”
anéis [ɐ.nɐ́jʃ] “ring‐pl” bebeis [bɨ.bɐ́jʃ] “drink‐2pl pres.ind.”
(2) Heterosyllabic centralization
cereja [sɨɾɐ́ʒɐ] “cherry” inveja [ĩvɐ́ʒɐ] “envy”
fecha [fɐ́ʃɐ] “close‐3sg pres.ind.” telha [tɐ́ʎɐ] “tile”
senha [sɐ́ɲɐ] “ticket” Tejo [tɐ́ʒu] “Tejo”
With the exception of the standard dialect, centralization of the coronal mid‐vowels in the
central‐southern dialects of EP does not occur in the speech of older speakers.6
Instead,
centralization and epenthesis is typical for the speech of the younger generations, as a
consequence of education and linguistic standardization. A systematic sociolinguistic study
remains to be done. The central‐southern dialects diverge furthermore from the standard
due to a process of coronal glide deletion in words such as leite [létɨ] “milk,” leiteiro [letéɾu]
“milkman,” but not in areia [ɐɾéjɐ] “sand,” bebeis [bɨbéjʃ] “drink” 2p pl. or lei [léj] “law.” The
words in which the glide is preserved show no centralization, that is, they surface as [ej]
in these dialects. So, at least in the speech of the elderly, /e/ and / ɛ/ are systematically
realized as [e] and [ɛ] in stressed syllables (velho [vɛ́ʎu] “old,” anel [ɐnɛ́ɫ] “ring”).
Although centralization of coronal mid‐vowels is common in the standard dialect, there
also are exceptions, such as the word Beja (toponym) which is pronounced as [bέʒɐ] or [bɐ́ʒɐ].
The process of glide insertion that creates the phonetic diphthong [ɐj] in the words of (2) in
standard EP and the northern dialects is variable. Some dialects of the northern areas
allow this insertion also before sonorants telha [tɐ́(j)ʎɐ] “tile,” senha [sɐ́(j)ɲɐ] “ticket,”
unlike the standard language.
According to Barros (1994), glide insertion in Lisbon occurs in syllables with /e/ and /ɛ/
before both tauto‐ and hetero‐syllabic palatal consonants. On the other hand, branching /eI/7
nuclei may lose the glide not only before hetero‐syllabic /ɾ/ cadeira [kɐdɐ́ɾɐ] “chair,” where it
is most frequent, but also before /ʒ/: beijo [bɐ́ʒu] “kiss,” showing that the rule is targeting
new contexts. The variants which preserve the glide are prestige variants, produced by
highly‐educated speakers, as shown by Barros (1994:180–184). The same type of variation
described by Barros for Lisbon was later studied by Rodrigues (2003) for speakers of both
Lisbon and Braga, the latter city belonging to the Northern dialect. The underlying diphthong
/ɛI/ surfaces as [ɐj] or [ɛj] (ideia [idɐ́j.ɐ]~[id́ɛj.ɐ] “idea”), with a small preference (60 percent)
of the first variant over the second in Lisbon, while the diphthong /eI/ is almost systematic
(90 percent) in the two cities (beijo [bɐ́jʒu]~[bɐ́ʒu] “kiss”). Non‐branching /ɛ/ is always pro-
nounced as [ɛ] by Braga speakers in all contexts, but it is diphthongized by Lisbon speakers,
particularly before syllable‐initial /ʃ/ or /ʒ/ (inveja [ĩvɐ́ʒɐ]~[ĩvɛ́ʒɐ]~[ĩvɐ́jʒɐ] “envy”).
Neverthless, [ɛ] prevails over the centralized variants in Lisbon. Upper mid /e/ exhibits
more contextual variation: in both cities, [e] is preferred before the coda coronal fricative,
with [ɐ] being used elsewhere. The coronal fricative in the prefixes extra‐, ex‐ as well as in
508  Celeste Rodrigues and Dermeval da Hora
words like texto “text,” sexto “sixth” may undergo centralization and epenthesis, different
from similar words like cesto [séʃtu] “basket” which do not undergo either of these processes.
Unlike EP, BP does not show noticeable variation in the quality of stressed vowels. BP
realizes the stressed vowel system in Table 28.1, illustrated by the examples in (3), without
any important dialectal or sociolinguistic variation.
(3)
mapa [ˈmapa] “map”
tipo [ˈtʃipu] “type”
tudo [ˈtudu] “everything”
mesa [ˈmeza] “table”
tela [ˈtɛla] “screen”
moço [ˈmosu] “boy”
bola [ˈbɔla] “ball”
2.2.  Unstressed vowels in EP
2.2.1.  Unstressed vowel neutralization
Except for the high vowels /i/ and /u/, unstressed vowels are raised in all the dialects of EP.
For the coronal vowels, the aperture distinctions are neutralized word‐initially so that [i] is the
only representative of this vowel class in this position. In all other unstressed contexts, coronal
mid‐vowels are not only raised but also centralized as [ɨ]. The low vowel /a/ surfaces as upper
mid [ɐ]. In the standard dialect, unstressed labial mid‐vowels /o/ and /ɔ/ either remain
unchanged word‐initially or their aperture contrast is neutralized by the lowering of /o/, as in
ocasião [ɔkɐzjɐ̃́w] “occasion,” especially for young speakers. Apart from this tendency, which
is typical for standard EP, the central‐southern dialects generally preserve the phonological
contrast between the three unstressed labio‐dorsal vowels word‐initially. On the other hand, in
some of the northern dialects neutralization may also affect this vowel class, which is conse-
quently only represented by the high vowel [u]: ocasião [ukɐzjɐ̃́w] “occasion.” This word‐initial
neutralization of labial vowels was observed for the Braga region by Rodrigues (2003), who
found this variant typically in the speech of middle‐aged male speakers with a low education
level. Except word‐initially, the aperture distinctions among labial vowels are neutralized by
raising to [u] in all other unstressed positions in all regional variants of EP.
2.2.2.  Unstressed vowel reduction/deletion
Neutralized unstressed vowels [ɨ ɐ u] may either be produced as such, they can be devoiced,
or deleted, depending on linguistic and non‐linguistic factors, such as vowel class, syllable
structure, dialect, speech style, or social profile of the speaker, with the exception of [ɐ] which
can only be devoiced, not deleted. Examples are provided in (4).
(4) Devoicing and deletion in EP
feito [fɐ́jtu] [fɐ́jtu̥] [fɐ́jt] “done”
leite [lɐ́jtɨ] [lɐ́jtɨ̥] [lɐ́jt] “milk”
laca [lákɐ] [lákɐ̥] “hair spray”
Devoicing and deletion can be viewed as weakening (or reduction) processes. These rules
apply in all syllable types and in all positions within the word, with varying frequency
(devoicing is more common word‐finally).
Lexical unstressed /i/ and /u/ are produced as [i] and [u] in EP, with the exception of
word‐final unstressed /i/, which is realized as [ɨ]. The deletion rates for lexical high vowels
tends to be lower than those derived from underlying mid‐vowels.
Main Current Processes of Phonological Variation  509
In the following paragraphs, we discuss the variable deletion of coronal and labial vowels.
We will not discuss devoicing any further, since there is no in‐depth analysis available of this
process in EP.
The deletion of unstressed coronal vowels
There are very few variation studies dealing with variable unstressed vowel deletion in EP.
Our account of the facts is therefore limited by the scarcity of available reports. Rodrigues
(2003) analyzes and compares two speech samples, one from the standard Lisbon dialect and
the other one from the Braga city dialect, which belongs to the northern dialect region.
As observed above, in word‐internal and word‐final unstressed syllables, /e/ and /ɛ/
neutralize to [ɨ], a high, unrounded, back vowel.8
Word‐final unstressed /i/ is also centralized
to [ɨ]. The probability of deletion of all instances of [ɨ] is related to the structure of the syllable,
such that deletion affects vowels in open syllables more often than in closed syllables
(Rodrigues, 2003). The frequency of deletion depends moreover on the underlying vowel
quality. The [ɨ] sound representing underlying /e/ is deleted more often than all the others.
A word must be said about word‐initial clusters such as exemplified in (5). Unlike in the
Lisbon dialect, in the northern dialects these words start with an initial [i] (Rodrigues (2003:
209). We analyze [i] in these dialects as the result of an insertion rule, whereas in the Lisbon
dialects the same words begin with an empty nucleus.
(5)
Lisbon Braga
escola [ʃkɔ́lɐ] [iʃkɔ́lɐ] “schoolˈ
estreito [ʃtɾɐ́jtu] [iʃtɾɐ́jtu] “narrow”
esguio [ʒgíw] [iʒgíju] slender”
esboço [ʒbósu] [iʒbósu] “sketch”
Deletion of unstressed labial vowels
While one would expect that all the underlying labial vowels /u, o, ɔ/, once they are raised
to [u], act as a single class with regard to the deletion process, this expectation is not borne
out by the facts, with the exception of the northern dialects, where some speakers delete [u]
uniformly, independently of their lexical source.
Word‐initially, unstressed lexical /u/ is invariably produced as [u] (usura [uzúɾɐ] “usury”)
in all dialects. Initial /o/ is normally produced as [o], although, as discussed above, it is also
realized as [ɔ] in some dialects, including the standard Lisbon dialect. In a comparative study
of the speech of 20‐ to 24‐year‐old university students in the cities of Lisbon and Oporto,
Mascarenhas (1996) observed for both cities that young speakers prefer [ɔ] to [o]. Initial /ɔ/
is always produced as [ɔ]. Rodrigues (2003) further noticed that both unstressed /o/ and the
diphthong /oU/ are pronounced alike in word‐initial position by Lisbon speakers, who pro-
duce the sounds variably as [o] or [ɔ] (ovinho [ovíɲu]/[ɔvíɲu] “little egg,” ouvir [ovíɾ]/[ɔvíɾ]
“listen”), depending on age, education profile, and geographical origin of the speakers.
Thus, the deletion of labial unstressed vowels is blocked in word‐initial position.
Word‐internally, the contrast between /u/, /o/ and /ɔ/ is neutralized to [u], where it is
subject to deletion, irrespective of its lexical origin, although its underlying quality influ-
ences the frequency of deletion. Rodrigues (2003) observed that the deletion of [u] from /u/
is less common than the deletion of [u] from /o/ and /ɔ/, and that the latter is deleted more
often in Lisbon (14.9 percent) than in Braga (12.2 percent). Moreover, deletion is conditioned
by syllable structure in both cities. It is more common in CV syllables (20 percent in Lisbon,
against 14 percent in Braga), than in CCV‐ or CVC‐syllables (less than 5 percent in both
cities). The sociolinguistic profile of speakers is also a factor contributing to the variation.
Young Lisbon speakers with a low education level delete more often than their peers
510  Celeste Rodrigues and Dermeval da Hora
with higher education levels (35 percent vs. 21 percent). Also, men delete more than
women (35 percent vs. 26 percent). For Braga speakers, deletion is correlated with education
and age (higher values were found in younger speakers with higher education), while
gender plays no role. From these data, Rodrigues concluded that, since female speakers of
the standard dialect delete less than men, the deletion rate is not correlated with prestige. As
a consequence, deletion spreads faster among the younger speakers of Braga than among the
older ones, with no clear difference between men and women.
Thevowels/o/and/ɔ/,neutralizedas[u],oftenundergodeletionword‐internally.Unstressed
vowel deletion is not only constrained by phonological contexts, part of it is conditioned by socio‐
linguistic factors. Lisbon young male speakers more frequently delete [u] from unstressed /o/
and /ɔ/ in word‐internal CV syllables than female speakers do (28.7 percent, against 22.4 percent,
respectively). Results from the city of Braga (14.4 percent in male speakers and 15.4 percent in
female speakers) show that the deletion process is spreading faster among young speakers than
among speakers of the older generation (18.3 percent vs. 9.3 percent). The situation is identical in
Lisbon (36.9 percent vs. 21 percent), even though deletion does not seem to be a highly valued
feature. In fact, young males lead the change in Lisbon over young females.
Word‐final unstressed /o/, which is regularly raised to [u], often suffers deletion (pato
[pátu]/[pát] “duck”). Rodrigues (2003: 138–153) found that deletion affects 53.3 percent of
the words ending in unstressed /o/ in Lisbon, while 42.3 percent of these vowels are deleted
in Braga. The variability of deletion is co‐conditioned by the phonological properties of the
following context. It is common before a pause (36.8 percent in Lisbon and 26.8 percent in
Braga), more frequent before consonants (65.1 percent in Lisbon and 55 percent in Braga) and
most frequent before vowels (81.2 percent in Lisbon and 81.1 percent in Braga). The deletion
rate is also conditioned by non‐linguistic parameters like age, with deletion being more
frequent among young speakers than in speakers over 40 years old. In the Lisbon dialect,
deletion is frequent among speakers of all ages, while in the Braga dialect it is relatively rare
in the speech of the elderly (15 percent).
In final unstressed CVC‐syllables, normally /CoS/,9
the [u] (from underlying /o/)
deletes more often when the coda‐fricative is voiced as opposed to voiceless (71.3 vs. 54.4
percent in Lisbon and 53.7 vs. 39.7 percent in Braga). The rate of deletion of unstressed
/o/ in final syllables with /oS/ is higher in Lisbon than in Braga (62.1 percent vs. 46.1
percent). This deletion occurs with varying frequency in examples such as: comemos uma
[kumẽ́mzúmɐ] “we eat one,” perfeitos [pɨɾfɐ́jtʃ] “perfect-pl”
2.3.  Unstressed vowels in BP: pretonic mid‐vowels
Pretonic mid‐vowels have roused the interest of many scholars in Brazil, who have produced
conjointly a detailed picture of their use in many regions of the Brazilian territory. In Nascentes’
(1922) view, the quality of the pretonic mid‐vowels divides Brazil in two parts: the northern dia-
lects are claimed to prefer the lower mid‐vowels while the upper mid‐vowels are typical of the
southern dialects.10
Indeed, the preference for one or the other of the unstressed five‐vowel sys-
tems /i, {e, ɛ}, a, {o, ɔ}, u/ changes from one region to the other, as is well‐demonstrated in studies
of such authors as Bisol (1981), for the State of Rio Grande do Sul; Maia (1986), for the State of Rio
Grande do Norte; Silva (1989), for the State of Bahia; Viegas (2001) for the State of Minas
Gerais; Pereira (1997), for the State of Paraíba; Callou, Leite and Coutinho (2001), for the State of
Rio de Janeiro; Silva (2009) for the State of Piauí. As it appears, the dialectal split based on the
unstressed vowel systems is not as clear‐cut as Nascentes asserts in his early publication.
Ateam of scholars, collaborators in the Atlas Linguístico do Brasil (Linguistic Atlas of Brazil),11
have described the distribution of coronal mid‐vowels in pretonic position as displayed in
Figure 28.2, showing a concentration of upper‐mid qualities in the south and the southeast
Figure 28.2  Distribution of coronal mid‐vowels in pretonic position. Abbreviations in the map refer to the names of
states, as follows: In the Northern Region: AC = Acre, RO = Rondônia, AM = Amazonas, RR = Roraima, AP = Amapá,
PA = Pará, TO = Tocantins; In the Northeastern Region: MA = Maranhão, PI = Piauí, CE = Ceará, RN = Rio Grande do
Norte; PB = Paraíba, PE = Pernambuco, AL = Alagoas, SE = Sergipe, BA = Bahia; In the Southeastern Region: ES =
Espírito Santo, MG = Minas Gerais, RJ = Rio de Janeiro, SP = São Paulo; In the Mid-Western Region: GO = Goiás, MT =
Mato Grosso, MS = Mato Grosso do Sul; In the Southern Region: PR = Paraná, SC = Santa Catarina, RS = Rio Grande do
Sul.
512  Celeste Rodrigues and Dermeval da Hora
as well as in the central‐west. In the northeast, the lower mid quality [ɛ] is clearly predominant,
more so than in the north.
Studies on the same topic have found that the pretonic vowel systems are distributed geo-
graphically as follows: (a) the south and southeast show a remarkable predominance of
upper mid‐vowels [e], [o], which are subject to a variable rule of raising to [i], [u], respec-
tively; (b) the northeast, central‐west and north regions, witness a clear predominance of the
lower mid‐vowels [ɛ], [ɔ], with variable raising—as in the south and southwest. Whereas in
the south and southwest the quality of the mid‐vowels is upper‐mid with variable raising
to high, in the other regions one finds a three‐way variation between [i ~ e ~ ɛ], [u ~ o ~ ɔ],
as illustrated with the words in (6).
(6)
South / Southeast North / Northeast / Central‐West
[pe'zadu] [pe'zadu] ~ [pɛ'zadu] pesado	 “heavy”
[mo'rãgu] [mo'rãgu] ~ [mɔ'rãgu] morango	 “strawberry”
[ko'ruʒa] ~ [ku’ruʒɐ] [ko'ruʒa] ~ [kɔ'ruʒa] ~ [ku'ruʒa] coruja	 “owl”
[me'ninu] ~ [mi’ninu] [me'ninu] ~ [mɛ'ninu] ~ [mi'ninu] menino	 “boy”
2.4.  Unstressed vowels in BP: non‐final posttonic vowels
As for the non‐final posttonic vowels in BP, Câmara Jr. (1970) proposes the asymmetrical
four‐vowel system in (7) below for the speech of the city of Rio de Janeiro, which is the result
of a process of neutralization of the mid and high labio‐dorsal vowels, as in pér[u]la for
pér[o]la “pearl.”
(7) High /i/    /u/
   /e/    /../
   
/a/
Mid
Low
Data from southern Brazil collected by Vieira (2002: 128) show a more complex picture.
Many words were found in which neutralization does not happen, as in (de) cóc[o]ras
“squatting” or ânc[o]ra “anchor.” Moreover, a similar raising tendency was found in coronal
mid‐vowels, as in prót[i]se “prosthesis,” “cóc[i]gas “itch,” but not in vésp[e]ra “eve” or cát[e]dra
“chair.” In the northeast, the tendency is again to prioritize lower mid‐vowels, also in this
context: cóc[ɔ]ras, ânc[ɔ]ra, prót[ɛ]se, cóc[ɛ]ga, and also vésp[ɛ]ra, cát[ɛ]dra.
2.5.  Unstressed vowels in BP: unstressed word‐final
open syllables
In BP, unstressed vowels in word‐final open syllables are almost categorically realized as
high vowels, as in rat[u] “mouse,” leit[i] “milk.” To our knowledge, variation studies of
unstressed vowels in this context only exist for the southern region. For southern Brazil,
Vieira (1994) analyzed the VARSUL corpus, which covers the states of Rio Grande do Sul,
Paraná, and Santa Catarina. As is turns out, the ethnic factor is important for understanding
the distribution of the mid‐vowels [e, o] vs. the high vowels [i, e] in the different commu-
nities of the southern states.
As is obvious from the results shown in Table 28.2, the variation in the application of
word‐final vowel raising varies greatly within each state. In RS, the application of the rule is
most productive in the state capital of Porto Alegre (0.99) and least productive in Flores da
Cunha (0.22), a city colonized by Italians (0.22). For the state of Paraná, the city of Blumenau
Main Current Processes of Phonological Variation  513
(0.72), with a high population of German immigrants, has the highest application index for
the raising rule, followed by the state capital of Florianópolis (0.66). In Paraná, raising is
most frequent in Pato Branco (0.81), least frequent in Irati. The results for the state capital of
Curitiba together with Londrina are close to the neutral application point.
Considering the fact that elsewhere in Brazil the absence of mid‐vowels in unstressed
word‐final open syllables is almost categorical, we may conjecture that the variability found
in the southern states is due to the predominant presence in this part of Brazil of Italian,
Spanish, and German immigrants.
3.  Consonant Variation
3.1.  Onset consonants in EP
The system of consonantal phonemes, as provided in Table 28.3, is identical for EP and BP.12
The subareas within the northern dialects of EP show different subsets of fricative pho-
nemes in the syllable onset. Dialectologists agree on the existence of two main areas marked
by the use of different fricatives in this position.
(i)	 Trás‐os‐Montes and Alto Minho preserve both /s, z/ (for instance: cedo “early,” praça
“square” / zarpar “set off”) and /s̺, z̺/ (sol “sun,” passo “step,” caso “case”).
(ii)	 Baixo‐Minho, Douro and Beiras only have /s̺, z̺/ for all the words exemplified in (i).
The dialect of Trás‐os‐Montes and Alto Minho also preserves the ancient contrast between
the fricative /ʃ/ and the palatal affricate / t͡ʃ/, which got lost in standard EP (chapéu [ʃɐpɛ́w]
“hat” and xarope [ʃɐɾɔ́pɨ] “syrup”). This contrast corresponds, in this geographical area, with
the different spellings <ch> and <x> (chapéu [ʧ͡ɐpɛ́w] “hat” vs. xarope [ʃɐɾɔ́pɨ] “syrup”).
All the northern dialects are known to preserve the non‐strident labial fricative /β/,
instead of the strident /v/, which is a stereotype feature of this linguistic area. In these
dialects, speakers use [β] or [b] (more or less interchangeably, depending on dialects and
Table 28.2  Geographical distribution of the quality of word‐final unstressed vowels in
southern Brazil.
State Factor High vowels / total Percent Relative weight
Rio Grande do Sul (RS) Porto Alegre
Parnambi
São Borja
Flores da Cunha
48/59
10/43
33/82
21/115
81
23
40
18
0.99
0.29
.044
0.22
Santa Catarina (SC) Florianópolis
Blumenau
Chapecó
Lages
35/61
48/77
27/107
11/44
57
62
25
23
0.66
0.72
0.25
0.29
Paraná (PR) Curitiba
Pato Branco
Irati
Londrina
37/100
40/57
16/76
25/56
37
70
21
45
0.45
0.81
0.25
0.48
Input: 0.34; Significance: 0.00
Vieira 1994: 153.
514  Celeste Rodrigues and Dermeval da Hora
contexts) among peers and some percentage of [v], when they interact with speakers from
other geographical origins.
The variation described in (i) and (ii) above has not been studied yet from a sociolin-
guistic perspective. Rodrigues (2003) found a categorical use of /v/ in standard EP and
observed the reported variation associated with /β/ in the northern dialect of Braga. /β/
was produced by native Braga speakers in semi‐spontaneous conversation (involving
also a speaker of the central‐southern dialect) as: [v] (66.3percent), [β] (32.4 percent) or [b]
(1.3 percent). The [b] allophone emerges utterance‐initially. The use of [v] depends on the
social profile of the speakers (education and age) and the speech style. The [v] variant is
increasingly used by speakers with an academic degree, particularly the younger ones in
formal reading‐aloud tasks, which were part of the sociolinguistic interview applied.
3.2.  Coronal onset stops in BP
Through the influence of the high vowel [i] or the glide [y], the coronal stops /t, d/ are affri-
cated in BP, becoming [tʃ] and [dʒ]. The affrication rule is productive in most parts of Brazil
and has been studied by several researchers.13
Examples are given in (8).
(8) Lexical high vowels Derived high vowels
/di/tado ~ [dʒi]tado “saying” po/te/ > po[ti] ~po[tʃi] “pot”
re/ti/ro ~ re[tʃi]ro “retreat” d/eʃ/tino > [diʃ]tino ~ [dʒiʃ]tino “destiny”
po/ti/ ~ po[tʃi] “shrimp”
Bisol (1985) studied the affrication of coronal stops in the speech of “four cohorts of socio‐
culturally different individuals, representative of the Portuguese variety spoken in Rio
Grande do Sul.” The sample comprised 15 monolingual speakers from Porto Alegre, 15
speakers from the frontier area, 15 bilingual subjects of German descent and 15 speakers
from Italian descent. All of them had received elementary school education only. A control
sample consisted of 15 speakers from Porto Alegre, with a university degree.
The study found a number of linguistic factors that favor or disfavor the affrication
process. A coronal fricative preceding or following the coronal stop appears to disfavor
affrication: in[sti]tuto ~ in[stʃi]tuto “institute,” pare[dis] ~ pare[dʒis] “walls.” Affrication is
also sensitive to stress. The process occurs more easily in stressed vowels, less frequently in
pretonic syllables, and least in posttonic syllables: an['tʃi]go “ancient,” [dʒi]'lema “dilemma”
and ‘vin[tʃi] “twenty.” The prefixes de‐, des‐ and dis‐ resist affrication, unlike the clitics de “of”
and te “you,” which undergo the rule. Bisol observed a relation between the frequency of
mid‐vowel raising, especially /e/ > [i] and the rate of affrication. Especially the members
of the German cohort were found not to apply /e/‐raising14
and consequently applied
Table 28.3  Consonantal phonemes of EP and BP.
Labial Coronal Dorsal
+ anterior – anterior
Stops p b t d k g
Fricatives f v s z ʃ ʒ
Rhotics ɾ
Laterals l ʎ
Nasals m n ɲ
Main Current Processes of Phonological Variation  515
affrication in the context of underlying /i/ only. On the other hand, the descendants of
Italian immigrants not only resisted against vowel raising but failed to apply affrication also
in the context of lexical /i/.
Another study on the variable application of affrication was conducted by Hora (1990)
in the community of Alagoinhas in the state of Bahia. The linguistic variables that were
controlled were identical to the ones studied by Bisol (1985) and showed a similar favoring
or disfavoring impact on the productivity of the rule. The number of non‐linguistic parameters
in Hora’s study was different: social class, gender, age, and style. Hora found that the use of
affrication is most frequent in the speech of the upper and middle classes, especially in the
15‐47 year age range, regardless of gender, as well as in the more formal styles, as in reading.
He also concludes that affrication is a marker of prestige, since it is more used in formal
styles and by speakers with greater purchasing power and a higher level of education.
Both studies characterize affrication as a variable process, of which the variability is influ-
enced by linguistic and non‐linguistic factors.
There is another affrication process that targets the coronal stops, which does not occur
in the south but is common in the northeast. This affrication results from progressive
assimilation in a sequence [jt/dV], exemplified in (9), where V is not a high coronal vowel.
(9) ['ojtu] ~ ['otʃu] “eight”
['ʒejtu] ~ ['ʒetʃu] “way”
[lej'tura] ~ [le'tʃurɐ] “reading”
['dojda] ~ ['dodʒa] “crazy”
['gɔʃtu] ~ ['gɔʃtʃu] “like‐1sg pres. ind.”
In this process, the trigger for affrication of /t, d/ is not a following high vowel, which in
fact prevents the process from applying, as in noite ˈnightˈ, obligatorily pronounced as [‘nojti].
As the examples in (9) show, the process is triggered by a preceding coronal glide. Affrication
moreover occurs after a (obligatory palatal) fricative in the coda preceding the coronal stop,
as in go[ʃt]o “taste,” optionally pronounced as go[ʃtʃ]o. In general, in the communities of
northeastern Brazil where progressive palatalization cum affrication is productive, the plain
and affricated pronunciations of coronal stops coexist.
3.3.  Coda Consonants in EP
3.3.1.  The lateral /l/
In EP, /l/ is velarized in all contexts, although velarization is stronger syllable‐finally
(Andrade, 1998, 1999; Marques, 2010). Usually, the onset lateral is represented as [l], the
strongly velarized lateral as [ɫ]. The syllable affiliation of [ɫ] is controversial. It is syllabified
by some scholars as a coda segment (Mateus and Andrade, 2000; Rodrigues, 2003), by others
as part of the nucleus (Freitas, 1997; Gonzalez, 2008). The former group of authors assumes
that the consonantal nature of the lateral is sufficient reason to justify its affiliation with the
coda in EP. On the other hand, Freitas (1997) argues on the basis of language acquisition
data that the lateral is syllabified in the nucleus, which would explain why it is acquired
earlier than the other coda consonants. Most scholars, ourselves included, describe the lat-
eral sonorant in EP as a coronal coda consonant with a secondary dorsal articulation, in
contrast with BP, where it is produced as a glide and therefore associated with the syllable
nucleus.
3.3.2.  The rhotic /ɾ/
In the coda, /ɾ/ (> [ɾ]) contrasts with the consonants /l/ and /S/. In EP, word‐final codas
may variably delete. Postlexical restructuring as a syllable onset saves word‐final /ɾ/ from
516  Celeste Rodrigues and Dermeval da Hora
deletion in connected speech as in the example sentences in (10). Conversely, the presence of
a following consonant favors /ɾ/ deletion.
(10) /ɾ/ in coda
Vou ler o livro. [vóléɾulívɾu] “I”m going to read the book.”
A flor é amarela. [ɐflóɾɛ́ɐmɐɾɛ́lɐ] “The flower is yellow.”
Vou comer fruta. [vókuméfɾútɐ] “I”m going to eat fruit.”
Eu tenho medo do mar. [éwtɐ́ɲumédumáɾɨ] “I”m afraid of the sea.”
Ele não quer falar. [élɨnɐ̃́wkɛ́ɾfɐláɾ] “He doesn”t want to talk.”
In the last two examples in (10), [ɾ] is located at the end of an intonational phrase, where it
is usually maintained, either as such, or followed by an epenthetic [ɨ]. The insertion of [ɨ] in
this context is used as a strategy to preserve word‐final /ɾ/ and to signal the intonational
boundary, which is particularly noticeable in turn‐taking situations. Southern dialects within
the Alentejo region may insert either [i] or [ɨ] in this context, while the standard dialect and
northern dialects only insert [ɨ].
In Rodrigues’ (2003) study of the Lisbon and Braga varieties, deletion of [ɾ] is close to 30
percent, varying more in function of the phonological context than for regional or sociocul-
tural reasons. As mentioned, the presence of a consonant following /ɾ/ favors deletion (58
percent before sonorants and 55 percent before non‐sonorants in Lisbon; 53 percent before
sonorants and 59 percent before non‐sonorants in Braga). Only 10–15 percent of /ɾ/ deletion
is registered utterance‐finally and before a vowel. The frequency of [ɨ] insertion after /ɾ/ in
Braga is higher than in Lisbon (11.1 percent in Lisbon, against 30.2 percent in Braga).
Mateus and Rodrigues (2003) compared data from interactions in TV and radio interviews
forLisbonandBragaspeakers.Thedatashowthatinbothcitiesspeakershaveaslightpreference
for deletion in verbs over deletion in non‐verbs, although this difference may also be a
consequence of prosodic factors (namely phrasing and intonation). These authors also observe
that speakers delete more often in radio interactions than in television programs.
3.3.3.  The fricative /S/
The fricative consonant /S/ is produced as [ʃ] or [ʒ] in the syllable coda, depending on the
voice specification of the following consonant within the prosodic word, as exemplified in
(11) below. When /S/ is resyllabified with a following vowel as a syllable onset, it surfaces
as alveolar and voiced [z].
(11) /S/ in EP
Festa [fɛ́ʃtɐ] “party”
As festas [fɛ́ʃtɐʃ] “the parties”
Asno [áʒnu] “donkey”
Os dias [uʒdíɐʃ] “the days”
Os amigos [uzɐmíguʃ] “the friends”
Desunir [dɨzuníɾ] “separate” (/deS+uniɾ/)
Word‐final /S/ before a pause signaling a prosodic boundary surfaces as [ʃ]. Its place of
articulation is consequently always predictably palatal in coda position. However, derived
sequences of coda–/S/+coronal fricative may have separate articulations in careful speech
in the standard dialect, whereas in more rapid speech the sequences are realized as a single
consonant, either alveolar or palatal, as in the examples in (11) below. The palatal variant
emerges often in southern dialects and also in some dialects of the northern area, especially
among the young speakers. Older speakers of the northern dialects realize mainly the (onset)
right fricative [s] or [z] from underlying sequences /S.s/ and /S.z/, showing a preference for
Main Current Processes of Phonological Variation  517
coda deletion, even though some speakers produce the palatal articulation typical of the
coda position.
(12) /S/+ fricatives
descida [dɨʃsídɐ]~[dɨʃídɐ]~[dɨsídɐ] “downhill”
deszincar [dɨʒzĩkáɾ]~[dɨʒĩkáɾ]~[dɨzĩkáɾ] “unzinc”
disjunto [diʒʒṹtu]~[diʒṹtu] “disjunct”
fez sumo [féʃsúmu]~[féʃúmu] “made juice‐3sg”
tens chaves [tɐ̃́jʃʃávɨʃ]~[tɐ̃́jʃávɨʃ] “you”ve got keys”
os zumbidos [uʒzũbíduʃ]~[uʒũbíduʃ] “the buzzes”
Young speakers of the southern dialects pronounce [ʒ], even when /S/ is re‐syllabified in
the onset before a vowel‐initial word: os amigos [uʒɐmíguʃ] “the friends,” os olhos [uʒɔ́ʎuʃ] “the
eyes” (Rodrigues, 2012). In these productions, the underlying unspecified /S/ is spelled out as
palatal in the coda and subsequently resyllabified in the onset. This phenomenon is spreading
fast all over the country in informal speech styles, although it is still rare in the data gathered
by Rodrigues (2003), representing less than 3 percent of the cases, both in Lisbon and Braga.
3.4.  Coda Consonants in BP
The BP coda can only be filled by one of the consonants /l, R, S, N/, according to Camara Jr.
(1970). Leaving aside the variation observed in the realization of underlying /N/,15
their
occurrence in word‐internal and word‐final positions is illustrated in (13).
(13)
/l/ /R/ /S/
Word‐internal Word‐internal Word‐internal
fal.ta “lack” car.ta “card” pas.ta “pasta”
Word‐final Word‐final Word‐final
jor.nal “newspaper” tu.mor “tumor” mas “but”
3.4.1.  The rhotic /R/
The coda rhotic in BP is phonetically represented by a wide range of sounds, as illustrated
in (14). The variants [r], [ɾ], [ɽ], [w], [j] are relatively infrequent throughout Brazil. In final
position, the glottal fricative is the most productive of all. When word‐final /R/ moves from
the coda to the onset in connected speech, as in mar abaixo > ma.ra.bai.xo “sea below,” it is
pronounced as a tap [maraˈbajʃu].
(14) phonetic variation in the realization of the syllable‐final rhotic
[r] Word‐internal ca[r].ta ga[r].fo Word‐final ma[r] can.ta[r]
[ɾ] --- ca[ɾ].ta ga[ɾ].fo --- ma[ɾ] can.ta[ɾ]
[x] --- ca[x].ta ga[x].fo --- ma[x] can.ta[x]
[ɽ ] --- ca[ɽ ].ta ga[ɽ ].fo --- ma[ɽ] canta[ɽ]
[h] --- ca[h].ta ga[h]fo --- ma[h] can.ta[h]
[ø] --- *ca[ø].ta ga[ø].fo --- ma[ø] can.ta[ø]
[j]/[w] --- ca[j].ta ga[w].fo --- *ma[j/w] *canta[j/w]
“card” “fork” “sea” “sing”
In the speech of João Pessoa, the state capital of Paraíba, as well as in other cities of the
northeast, the zero [ø] realization of /R/ only occurs before a fricative consonant, alternating
with the glottal fricative [h] elsewhere in the syllable coda.
518  Celeste Rodrigues and Dermeval da Hora
(15)
força    
[ˈfosa] “strength”
várzea  [ˈvazɛa] “lowland”
garfo    [ˈgafu] “fork”
cerveja  [seˈveʒa] “beer”
marcha  [ˈmaʃa] “march”
gorjeta  [goˈʒeta]  
“tip”
In her study of the allophones of the rhotic consonant in the state of Rio Grande do Sul,
Monaretto (1992) found that the [ø] variant is more frequent in verbs than in nouns. This
difference was not encountered in the speech of João Pessoa and Rio de Janeiro (see Votre
(1978), Callou, Moraes, and Leite (1994)).
Figure 28.3 provides an overview of the distribution of four frequent allophones of /R/, in
the word‐final coda of infinitives for the state capitals of Brazil. As is partially shown on the
map, a relatively productive allophone of /R/ is the retroflex [ɽ], although it is geographically
limited to the interior of the states of São Paulo, Paraná, and Mato Grosso do Sul, and to the
southern part of the states of Goiás, Mato Grosso, and Minas Gerais (Aguilera 2011: 125). In this
broad region, the retroflex variant is realized both word‐internally and word‐finally.
3.4.2.  The lateral /l/
In BP, the most frequent variants of the lateral consonant in the coda position are [w], [ł] and
[ø]. Other possibilities exist. In popular speech, for example, it is not unusual for [ł] to
alternate with a glottal fricative derived from /R/, as in fa[w]ta ~ fa[h]ta (< /farta/). Here
we will concentrate on the variants [w], [ł], [ø], exemplified in (16), which are the most recur-
rent variants of /R/ found in Brazil.
(16)
Word‐internal coda Word‐final coda
[w] [ ł ] [ø] [w] [ ł ] [ø]
de[w].ta de[ł]ta *de[ø]ta pape[w] pape[ł] pape[ø]
delta “delta” papel “paper”
fo[w]ga fo[ł]ga fo[ø]ga so[w] so[ł] so[ø]
folga “rest” sol “sun”
cu[w]pa cu[ł]pa cu[ø]pa azu[w] azu[ł] azu[ø]
culpa “guilt” azul “blue”
The glide [w] is the most frequent variant of the lateral consonant in Brazil, both word‐
internally and word‐finally. It is found all over the Brazilian territory without any clear
sociocultural bias. Word‐internally, when following a labiodorsal vowel, especially when
high, the vocalization of the lateral takes place more easily than after other vowels. The
emerging sequence of labiodorsal vocoids is often simplified by the deletion of the glide.
Deletion of the glide never happens after a non‐labial vowel
Studies conducted in the southern region show a relatively high incidence of the ­
velarized
alveolar [ł], mainly in the interior of the state of Rio Grande do Sul, where its use is strongly
correlated with age, with a higher incidence in the speech of older speakers (Quednau, 1993;
Tasca, 1999; Espiga, 2001). In a study conducted by Hora (2006) in the city of João Pessoa, this
variant is poorly represented. When it occurs, it is again found most often in the speech of
the elderly.
In the dialect of João Pessoa, the word‐final deletion of the lateral is favored by a number
of factors, linguistic and non‐linguistic. Its frequent deletion is typical of speakers with a
low school education. Furthermore, similar to what happens after /u/ word‐internally, the
deletion of /l/ is nearly categorical after /u/ word‐finally, as in the word azul “bleu,” among
Figure 28.3  Distribution of the allophones of the rhotic consonant verb-finally in the state capitals of Brazil.
520  Celeste Rodrigues and Dermeval da Hora
all speakers (Hora, 2006). The surveys conducted in the state of Rio Grande do Sul found no
sign of deletion of the lateral in any position (Quednau, 1993, Tasca, 1999, Espiga, 2001).
From the available surveys of the variable realization of the lateral consonant in Brazil
we conclude that the vocalized form is the most productive in all parts of the country. The
variant [ł] is typical of the speech of the elderly in the regions where it occurs, whereas the
[ø] realization is typical for low education classes.
3.4.3.  The fricative /S/
Syllable‐final s/z must have acquired its palatal pronunciation in EP around the sixteenth
century, as was first suggested by Verney (1746). Palatalization did not become general in
the northern dialects of EP, and neither in BP and Galician. In the dialects of Northern
Portugal the apico‐alveolar pronunciation of coda [s,z] predominates and in the speech
varieties of Northeast Portugal, [s] is pronounced as apico‐alveolar and [z] as a ­
predorsal
dental.
In most parts of Brazil, the pronunciation is predominantly alveolar, with the palatal pronun­
ciation being characteristic of some varieties, such as the city dialects of Rio de Janeiro and Belém.
Like the rhotics, the voiced and voiceless coronal fricatives have been the object of
numerous studies in Brazil. Their most frequent realizations are [s], [ʃ], [z], [ʒ ], [h], [ø]. Their
word‐internal and word‐final distributions are presented in (17):
(17)
Variants Word‐internal position
[s] ~ [ʃ] casca “peel” [ˈkasca] ~ [ˈkaʃkɐ]
[z] ~ [ʒ] ~ [h] desde “since” [ˈdezdʒi] ~ [ˈdeʒdʒi] ~ [ˈdehdʒi]
[ø] mesmo “same” [ˈmeømu]
Word‐final position
[s] ~ [ʃ] ~ [h] lapis “pencil” [ˈlapis] ~ [ˈlapiʃ] ~ [ˈlapiø]
Among the six variants considered, the alveolar [s,z] and palatal [ʃ,ʒ] ones are the most
frequent word‐internal realizations of /S/. The study of Callou, Moraes, and Leite (1994),
based on data from the NURC project,16
shows that alveolars are preferred in the cities of
Porto Alegre, São Paulo, and Salvador, whereas in the cities of Rio de Janeiro and Recife
the palatals are preferred. In a study on the speech of the State of Paraíba, Hora (2003)
observes that, although the alveolar realization represents the default for coronal frica-
tives, the palatal variants occur before /t,d/, as in leste le[ʃ]te “east” and desde de[ʒ]de
“since.”
In his study conducted in the city of Rio de Janeiro, Guy (1981) proposes two separate
rules to account for the absence of the word‐final fricative: one rule is active in the plural
noun phrase, which operates in such a way that not all words are necessarily marked by the
plural suffix. For example, the pluralization of the noun phrase a casa grande “the big house”
may contain different plural markings, such as as casas grandes, as casas grande, as casa grande,
with the definite article as being marked with the plural suffix categorically. Another rule is
phonological, which deletes /S/ word‐finally, be it the plural suffix, as in casas, or the final
segment of a lexical morpheme, as in menos. Word‐final deletion is sensitive to the position
of the main stress, such that /S/ is more resistant against deletion in stressed syllables than
in unstressed syllables. For example, /S/ is more easily deleted in words like ônibus ~ ônibu
“bus,” lápis ~ lápi “pencil,” but less so in ra'paz “boy,” with final stress. Deletion of /S/ is
moreover less frequent in female speech than in male speech.
Word‐finally, the voiceless alveolar variants [s, ʃ] are always preferred. Here also, the
preference for the alveolar or palatal articulations shows the same geographical distribution
as the one observed word‐internally. The complete deletion of the word‐final fricative is
Figure 28.4  Geographical distribution of the palatal realizations of /S/ in the syllable coda word‐internally and word‐
finally in the state capitals of Brazil.
522  Celeste Rodrigues and Dermeval da Hora
relatively frequent, both in words representing lexical morphemes, as in menos “minus” or
when the fricative functions as the exponence of plurality, as in casa+s, “house‐pl.”
The global dialectal distribution of the palatal variants is shown in Figure 28.4. Palatal
consonants are frequent in Florianópolis in the southern region, in Rio de Janeiro in the
southeast, in Recife in the northeast, and in Belém, Macapá, and Manaus in the north. The
overall picture confirms the findings from sociolinguistic studies according to which the
alveolar variant is the most common in Brazil.
4. Conclusion
Modern EP has received more attention from dialectologists than from sociolinguistics. The
great amount of dialectal studies currently available contrasts with the few studies that
investigate the sociolinguistic stratification as it exists within the different speech commu-
nities in the country. The converse situation exists in Brazil, where large‐scale dialect studies
started only recently while the sociolinguistic studies were taken up enthusiastically and
massively soon after the first publication of the sociolinguistic program by Labov. The
different geographical dimensions of Brazil and Portugal as well as their different linguistic
traditions probably can explain the asymmetry in the scholarly interest for one or the other
type of linguistic variation discussed in this chapter.
Notes
1	 The symbols of the International Phonetic Alphabet (2005) are used throughout this chapter, except
for the glides in the sections on EP, which are represented in conformity with the Portuguese
tradition as [j] for the palatal and as [w] for the dorsal glide. In BP phonetic transcriptions, [r] is
used for [ɾ]. Furthermore, in EP, stressed vowels are marked with the diacritic “ ´ ” , whereas in the
sections on BP, stress is marked as “ ' ” preceding the stressed syllable.
2	 A similar contrast between nasal and oral vowels exists in the verbs of the 2/3 conjugations: bebemos
[bɨbẽ́muʃ] “drink‐2pl pres.” vs. bebemos [bɨbémuʃ] form “drink‐2pl past,” partimos [pɐɾtĩ́muʃ]
“leave‐2pl pres.” vs. partimos [pɐɾtímuʃ] “leave‐2pl past.” See Mateus (1982: 165–166) and Andrade
(1977: 60–76) for discussion.
3	 We will not discuss the insular regions of the Azores and Madeira, which globally behave like the
central‐southern dialects of EP, although some of the islands exhibit features which are unknown
in mainland Portugal.
4	 We thank Luísa Segura for giving us the permission to use this map, also used in Segura (2013).
The darker gray colours refer to the northern dialects, while the lighter gray colours indicate
central‐southern dialects.
5	 See Vigário (2003) for a full discussion of this process in standard EP.
6	 The standard dialect of EP is closest to the central‐southern dialects of Portugal. The exceptions
concern the preservation of the diphthong /eI/ in the standard dialect as [ɐj] and the production
of the coronal mid‐vowels as [ɐ] or [ɐj].
7	 We follow the notation used in Mateus and d’Andrade (2000) for underlying branching nuclei.
This notation uses the uppercase to signal an underlying vowel than can never be produced as a
vowel (it is either produced as a glide or it is deleted).
8	 Within the central‐southern dialects, speakers of the Lisbon dialect may raise the upper mid‐vowel
/e/ to [i] word‐initially, without dorsalization: elevador [ilɨvɐdóɾ] “lift,” ermida [iɾmídɐ] “hermit-
age.” The raising of word‐initial unstressed /e/ to [i] in Lisbon is probably an innovation, as one
concludes from Mascarenhas (1996), who pointed out that among Lisbon speakers there was still
variation between [e] and [i] at the end of the twentieth century.
Main Current Processes of Phonological Variation  523
9	 /S/ is the coda‐fricative of Portuguese. We assume that this consonant is unspecified both for
voice and place of articulation. In EP, this consonant has the variants [ʃ] and [ʒ] in the syllable coda
and [z] or [ʒ] when it is resyllabified as an onset, as we will discuss below.
10	 Antenor Nascentes futher divides the dialect of the north into two areas, 1. the Amazonian region
(amazônico), comprising the states of Acre, Amazonas, Pará and part of Goiás and 2. the north-
eastern region (nordestino), which comprises the states of Maranhão, Piauí, Ceará, Rio Grande do
Norte, Paraíba, Pernambuco and part of Goiás. The southern dialect is subdivided into four
regions: 1. The Bahia region (baiano), including the states of Sergipe, Bahia, part of Minas Gerais,
and part of Goiás; 2. the Rio de Janeiro region ( fluminense), comprising the states of Espírito Santo,
Rio de Janeiro, Distrito Federal and part of Minas Gerais; 3. The region of Minas Gerais (mineiro),
comprising the central, western and some of the eastern regions of Minas Gerais; 4. The southern
region (sulista), comprising the States of São Paulo, Paraná, Santa Catarina, Rio Grande do Sul, the
southern part of Minas Gerais plus the region known as the “Triângulo Mineiro,” the south of
Goiás, and Mato Grosso.
11	 All the BP dialect maps used in this chapter are taken from Cardoso et al. (2014).
12	 Some disagreement exists regarding the lexical definition of the rhotic in BP and about the
interpretation of [gw]/[kw] (água “water,” quando “when”) as a sequence of phonemes /ku, gu/
or as a single phoneme /kw
, gw
/. For discussion, see Chapter 4, AComparative Study of the Sounds
of European and Brazilian Portuguese: Phonemes and Allophones.
13	 Lopez (1979) analyzed the dialect of the city of Rio de Janeiro, Bisol (1985) worked with speech
data collected in different communities in the state of Rio Grande do Sul (RS). Other studies in
RS were carried out more recently (Almeida, 2000; Dutra, 2007; Battisti et al. 2007). Hora (1990)
analyzed palatalization in the community of Alagoinhas (state of Bahia). Macedo (2004) studied
several communities in the city of Rio de Janeiro, and Pagotto (2004) surveyed some communities
in Florianópolis (state of Santa Catarina).
14	Observe that the unproductivity of unstressed word‐final vowel raising observed by Bisol in the
speech of speakers of German descent living in the state of RS contrasts with the findings of Vieira
in the city of Blumenau discussed earlier (see Table 28.2 and related discussion).
15	 See Chapter  4, A Comparative Study of the Sounds of European and Brazilian Portuguese:
Phonemes and Allophones, and Chapter 6, The Syllable, for extensive discussion of the variation
in the realization of the nasal mora.
16	 The abbreviation NURC stands for the (Projeto de Estudo da) Norma Linguística Urbana Culta, liter-
ally “Cultured Linguistic Urban Norm.” This sociolinguistic project, which was started in 1969,
was carried out by research groups form the public universities in the cities of São Paulo, Rio de
Janeiro, Porto Alegre, Salvador, and Recife.
References
Aguilera, V. A. (2011). Dois momentos do /r/
retroflexo em Lavras MG: no Atlas linguístico
de Minas Gerais e nos dados do projeto do
Atlas linguístico do Brasil. Diadorim, 8,
pp. 125–142.
Andrade, E. (1977). Aspects de la Phonologie
(Générative) du Portugais. Lisbon: INIC.
Andrade, A. (1998). Variação fonética de /l/ em
ataque silábico em Português europeu. In Actas
do XIII Encontro Nacional da Associação Portuguesa
de Linguística, October, 1997. Lisbon: Associação
Portuguesa de Linguística, pp. 55–76.
Andrade, A. (1999). On /l/ velarization in
European Portuguese. In J. Ohala,
Y. Hasegawa, M. Ohala, D. Granville, and
A. Bailey (eds.), Proceedings of the 14th
International Congress of Phonetic Sciences,
San Francisco, 1999, pp. 543–546.
AVOC – Acoustic Atlas of Portuguese Stressed
Vowels. http://www.clul.ul.pt/en/research‐
teams/538‐avoc‐acoustic‐atlas‐of‐portuguese‐
stressed‐vowels, accessed November 9, 2015.
Barros, R. (1994). Contributo para uma análise
sociolinguística do português de Lisboa: variantes
de /e/ e /ɛ/ em contexto pre‐palatal. MA thesis,
University of Lisbon.
Battisti, E., A. A. Dornelles Filho, J. I. P. Lucas,
and N. M. P. Bovo (2007). Palatalização das
oclusivas alveolares e a rede social dos
informantes. ReVEL, 5 (9), pp. 1–29.
524  Celeste Rodrigues and Dermeval da Hora
Bisol, L. (1981). Harmonização vocálica: uma regra
variável. Ph.D. dissertation, Federal University
of Rio de Janeiro.
Bisol, L. (1985). A palatalização e sua restrição
variável. Unpublished research report,
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul.
Brescancini, C. R. (2002). A fricativa palatoalveolar
e sua complexidade: uma regra variável. Ph.D.
dissertation, Pontifícia Universidade Católica
do Rio Grande do Sul.
Brissos, F. (2012). Linguagem do Sueste da Beira no
Tempo e no Espaço. Lisbon: Centro de
Linguística da Universidade de Lisboa.
Brissos, F. (2014a). New insights into Portuguese
central‐southern dialects: understanding their
present and past forms through acoustic data
from stressed vowels. Journal of Portuguese
Linguistics, 13 (1), pp. 63–115.
Brissos, F. (2014b). A vogal u, os dialectos do
Centro‐Sul português e a dialectologia
acústica. In Textos Selecionados, XXIX Encontro
Nacional da Associação Portuguesa de Linguística.
Porto: Associação Portuguesa de Linguística,
pp. 85–102.
Brissos, F. and J. Saramago (2014). O problema
da diversidade dialectal do Centro‐Sul
português: informação perceptiva versus
informação acústica. Estudos de Lingüística
Galega, 6, pp. 53–80. http://www.usc.es/
revistas/index.php/elg, accessed
November 9, 2015.
Brissos, F. and C. Rodrigues (forthcoming).
Vocalismo acentuado do Noroeste português –
descrição acústica, variação dialectal e
representação fonológica. Revue Romane.
Camara Jr., J. M. (1970). Estrutura da Língua
Portuguesa. Petrópolis: Vozes.
Callou, D., J. Moraes, and Y. Leite (1994).
A variação de /s,r/ em posição final de sílaba e os
dialetos brasileiros. Manuscript.
Callou, D., Y. Leite, and L. Coutinho (2001).
Elevação e abaixamento das vogais pretônicas
no dialeto do Rio de Janeiro. Organon, 5,
pp. 71–78.
Cardoso, S. A. M., J. A. Mota, V. de A. Aguilera,
M. do S. Silva de Aragão, A. N. Isquerdo,
A. Razky, F. W. Margotti, and C. V. Altenhofen
(2014). Atlas Linguístico do Brasil. Londrina:
Editora da Universidade Estadual de
Londrina.
Cintra, L. F. L. (1971). Nova proposta de
classificação dos dialectos galego‐portugueses,
Boletim de Filologia, XXII, pp. 81–116.
Dutra, E. de O. (2007). A palatalização das
oclusivas dentais /t/ e /d/ no município de
Chuí, Rio Grande do Sul. Masters dissertation,
Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio
Grande do Sul.
Espiga, J. (2001). O Português dos Campos
Neutrais. Um estudo sociolingüístico da lateral
pósvocálica nos dialetos fronteiriços de Chuí e
Santa Vitória do Palmar. Ph.D. dissertation,
Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio
Grande do Sul.
Freitas, M. J. (1997). Aquisição da Estrutura
Silábica do Português Europeu. Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Lisbon.
Gonzalez, M. (2008). Português Europeu e
Galego: Estudo Fonético e Fonológico das
Consoantes em Rima Medial. MA thesis,
University of Lisbon.
Guy, G. R. (1981). Linguistic variation in Brazilian
Portuguese: aspects of the phonology, syntax, and
language history. Ph.D. dissertation, University
of Pennsylvania.
Hora, D. da (1990). A palatalização das oclusivas
coronais: variação e representação nao‐linear. Ph.D.
dissertation, Pontifícia Universidade Católica
do Rio Grande do Sul.
Hora, D. da (2003). Reanálise da consoante em
final de palavra: coda ou ataque de núcleo
vazio? In C. Roncarati and J. Abraçado (eds.),
Português Brasileiro II: Contato Lingüístico,
Heterogeneidade e História. Rio de Janeiro:
EDUFF, pp. 79–92.
Hora, D. da (2006). Vocalização da lateral /l/:
correlação entre restrições sociais e estruturais.
Scripta, 9, pp. 31–46.
International Phonetic Alphabet. (2005).
International Phonetic Association.
http://internationalphoneticassociation.org/,
accessed November 9, 2015.
Labov, W. (1966). The Social Stratification of English
in New York City. Washington, DC: Center for
Applied Linguistics.
Labov, W. (1972). Sociolinguistic Patterns.
Philadelphia, PA: University of Pennsylvania
Press.
Lopez, B. S. (1979). The sound pattern of Brazilian
Portuguese. Ph.D. dissertation, University of
California.
Maia, V. L. M. (1986). Vogais pretônicas médias
na fala de Natal. Estudos Linguísticos e
Literários, 5, pp. 35–47.
Macedo, A. V. T. de (2004). Linguagem e
contexto. In M. C. Mollica and M. L. Braga
(eds.), Introdução à Sociolingüística: O Tratamento
da Variação, 2nd edn. São Paulo: Contexto,
pp. 59–66.
Marques, I. (2010). Variação Fonética da Lateral
Alveolar no Português Europeu. Masters
dissertation, University of Aveiro.
Main Current Processes of Phonological Variation  525
Mattos e Silva, R. V. (1996). Sobre desencontros e
reencontros: Filologia e Lingüística no Brasil
no século XX. In XI Encontro Nacional da
ANPOLL, pp. 32–45.
Mascarenhas, I. (1996). Estudo da Variação dialectal
entre Lisboa e Porto das vogais átonas [−rec] e
[+arr] em contexto inicial. MA thesis, University
of Lisbon.
Mateus, M. H. (1982). Aspectos da Fonologia
Portuguesa. Textos de Linguística 6. Lisbon:
INIC.
Mateus, M. H. and E. Andrade (2000). The
Phonology of Portuguese. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Mateus, M.H. and Rodrigues, C. (2003).
A vibrante em coda no Português Europeu.
In D. Hora and G. Collischonn (eds.), Teoria
Linguistica Fonologia e outros Temas. Editora
Universitária da Universidade Federal da
Paraíba, João Pessoa, pp. 181–199.
Monaretto, Va de O. (1992). A vibrante:
representação e análise sociolingüística. MA thesis,
Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio
Grande do Sul.
Nascentes, A. (1953 [1922]). O Linguajar Carioca.
Rio de Janeiro: Organizações Simões.
Pereira, R. C. M. (1997). As vogais médias pretônicas
na fala dos pessoenses urbanos. MAthesis,
Universidade Federal da Paraíba.
Pagotto, E. G. (2004). Variação e Identidade.
Maceió: EDUFAL.
Quednau, L. (1993). A lateral pós‐vocálica no
português gaúcho: análise variacionista e
representação nao‐linerar. MA thesis, Pontifícia
Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul.
Rodrigues, C. (2003). Lisboa e Braga: Fonologia e
Variação. Ph.D. dissertation, University of Lisbon.
Rodrigues, C. (2012). Todas as codas São Frágeis
em Português Europeu? LinguíStica, 8 (1),
pp. 211–227.
Segura, L. (2013). Variedades dialetais do Português
Europeu. In E. Raposo, M. F. B. do Nascimento,
M. A. C. da Mota, L. Seguro, and A. Mendes
(eds.), Gramática do Português, vol. I. Lisbon:
Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian, pp. 85–122.
Silva, A. do N. (2009). As pretônicas no falar
teresinense. Ph.D. dissertation, Pontifícia
Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul.
Silva, M. B. da (1989). As pretônicas no falar baiano.
Ph.D. dissertation, Federal University of Rio
de Janeiro.
Tasca, M. (1999). A lateral em coda silábica no
sul do Brasil. Ph.D. dissertation, Pontifícia
Universidade Católica do Rio Grande
do Sul.
Veloso, J. (2012). Vogais centrais do português
europeu contemporâneo: uma proposta de
análise à luz da fonologia dos elementos. Letras
de Hoje, 47 (3), pp. 234–243.
Viegas, M. do C. (2001). O alçamento de vogais e
itens lexicais. Ph.D. dissertation, Universidade
Federal de Minas Gerais.
Vieira, M. J. B. (2002). As vogais médias
postônicas: uma análise varicionista. In L. Bisol
and C. Brescancini (eds.), Fonologia e Variação:
Recortes do Português Brasileiro. Porto Alegre:
EDIPUCRS, pp. 127–160.
Vigário, M. (2003). The Prosodic Word in European
Portuguese. Interface Explorations Series, 6.
Berlin: de Gruyter.
Votre, S. J. (1978). Variação fonológica no Rio de
Janeiro. Ph.D. dissertation, Pontifícia
Universidade Católica do Rio de Janeiro.
Weinreich, U., W. Labov, and M. Herzog (1968).
Empirical foundations for a theory of language
change. In W. Lehmann and Y. Malkiel (eds.),
Directions for Historical Linguistics. Austin:
University of Texas.
Wetzels, W. L. (2011). The representation of
vowel height and vowel height
neutralization in Brazilian Portuguese. In
E. Hume, J. Goldsmith, and W. L. Wetzels
(eds.), Tones and Features. Berlin: de Gruyter,
pp. 331–359.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
Morphosyntactic variation has been a central issue in the research carried out in Brazil
ever since Anthony J. Naro introduced Variationist Sociolinguistics in the early 1970s.
The results from such studies have brought solid empirical foundations to build a reliable
description of the grammar of Brazilian Portuguese (BP) and to understand variation and
change in progress. In Portugal, the focus of interest has been in Historical Linguistics,
in Dialectology and in formal descriptions of contemporary grammar. Only around the
turn of the twentieth century, with the development of cooperation projects carried out
by Brazilian and Portuguese linguists, did sociolinguistic research entered the agenda
of linguistic studies of variation in European Portuguese (EP). Nevertheless, it is pos-
sible to explore advances in variationist studies here and there. This chapter explores
two main issues: variable concord (VC) and variation in the pronominal systems in BP
and EP.
In Section  2 we will concentrate our description on Subject–Verb Concord (SVC),
which raises interesting comparisons. Noun Phrase Concord (NPC), involving gender
and number agreement between a noun and its modifiers, is practically invariant in EP.
Thus, this phenomenon will be only briefly illustrated in Section 2 and resumed in our
final remarks in order to point out some common features this process shares with
­
variation in SVC. We will approach SVC from the social and structural dimensions, con-
sidering 3rd person and 1st person plural concord. As for this last case, variation arises
because 1st person plural can be expressed by the pronoun nós (we) and by the new
pronoun a gente, derived from a collective NP (literally meaning “the people”) and fully
grammaticalized in BP.
Section 3 is dedicated to the pronominal system and will focus on variation related to
variable use of 2nd person singular and 1st person plural nominative pronouns and to
overt or null pronominal subjects in each variety. Variation associated with pronominal
clitic complements and competing strategies will also be addressed. Unlike what we see
for variable concord, variation in the pronominal system is not subject to stigma and, except
for 2nd person reference, which is geographically constrained, age has been the most
important social factor group in a number of studies. This section stresses its relevance
associated with structural factors in the processes analyzed.
Main Current Processes
of Morphosyntactic Variation
Maria Marta Pereira Scherre and
Maria Eugênia Lammoglia Duarte
29
Main Current Processes of Morphosyntactic Variation  527
2.  Variable concord in Portuguese
2.1. Preliminaries
Variable Concord (VC) in Portuguese is a remarkable phenomenon, particularly in Brazil. It
has been historically analyzed as a consequence of a process of creolization, resulting from
contact of languages during colonization. The hypothesis persists in a relativized view,
according to which it is a result of irregular transmission during the acquisition of
Portuguese as second language (Lucchesi, Baxter, and Ribeiro 2009). Equally challenging
is the fact that VC presents ordered heterogeneity, revealed by the social and structural
constraints that govern it. This has led Naro and Scherre (2000, 2007) to emphasize the
existence of a confluence of motivations for variation in BP, including contact, but without
linguistic rupture in its origin.
Seminal sociolinguistics studies carried out since the early 1970s observed the fundamental
constraints on VC (Lemle and Naro 1977; Naro 1981; Naro, Gӧrski and Fernandes 1999),
which remained prominent in subsequent literature (Naro and Scherre 2000; Scherre et al.
2014; Scherre and Naro 2014). From 2000 on, especially for SVC, the studies advanced with
comparative analyses based on samples from BP, EP and African Portuguese (AP)
(Monguilhott 2009; Monte 2012; Rubio 2012; Vieira and Bazenga 2013; Barreto 2014).
Examples of variable 3rd person SVC in BP are in (1): in (1a) we see that both standard
(merecem) and non‐standard concord (ganharu instead of standard ganharam) are used side
by side; and in (1b) we see no concord (non‐standard)—the default 3rd person singular verb
form with a plural postverbal subject.
(1)  SVC—3rd person plural:
a. Elas ganharu e elas merecem isso
they won.3ppl and they deserve.3ppl it
“They won it and deserve it”
b. Ganhou essas duas meninas aí.
won3.psg these two girls there
“These two girls won it”
In (2) and (3), we show standard vs. non‐standard SVC with 1st person plural pronoun nós
(“we”) and with gramatically 3rd person singular a gente (“we,” literally “the people”),
respectively; in (4) we illustrate variable NPC.
(2) SVC—1st person plural nós:
a. Nós conversamos muito   [standard]
we.1ppl talk.1ppl.pres a lot
”we talk a lot”
b. Nós conversa muito [non‐standard]
we.1p.pl talk.1psg.pres a lot
”we talk a lot”
(3) SVC—1st person plural “a gente”:
a. A gente fez bolo   [standard]
we.1psg made.3psg cake
“we made cake”
b. A gente fizemos bolo [non‐standard]
we.1psg made.1ppl cake
“we made cake”
528  Maria Marta Pereira Scherre and Maria Eugênia Lammoglia Duarte
(4) NPC:
a. As   boas ações [standard]
the.pl. good.pl actions.pl
“The good actions”
b. As	 porta	 aberta [non‐standard]
the.pl	doors.sg	open.sg
“The open doors”
Even though SVC variation with 3rd person is more frequent in BP than in EP, both vari-
eties present similar patterns, amplified or intensified in contexts of social rupture (Naro and
Scherre 2007). NPC and SVC with the pronoun nós are categorical under the standard form
in EP (Brandão and Vieira 2012), but variable in BP. However, SVC with the new pronoun a
gente shows more variation in EP than in BP. The social constraints on variable SVC include
the role of years of schooling, age and gender. Among the linguistic constraints, we empha-
size the relative position and animacy of the subject, besides verbal tense.
2.2.  Social dimensions of variation in Brazil and Portugal
2.2.1.  SVC concord with 3rd person plural
Brazil has continental dimensions, with more than 200 million inhabitants, and still has
strong social contrasts. This led Bortoni‐Ricardo (1998) to stress the importance of analyzing
variation in BP along three different continua: literacy, the rural–urban parameter, and style
or speech monitoring. One could then hypothesize a direct correlation between [–literacy],
[–urban], [–monitoring] and fewer use of standard Overt Concord (OC), on the one hand;
and [+literacy], [+urban], [+monitoring] and more OC, on the other hand. However, VC in
BP is more complex than that.
Naro (1981), the first to use variationist sociolinguistics in the early 1970s, showed that
17 semi‐illiterate speakers presented rates of overt SVC ranging from 23.8 percent through
80.5 percent. He argued that this result was better understood in the light of an alternative
social variable—contact with TV. He proposed a variable he called cultural orientation, which
mightbe“vicarious”or“experiential,”accordingtothekindofTVprogramwatched.Vicarious
orientation, associated with soap opera watching, favors standard OC. Brazilian soap operas
convey predominantly cultural and economic concerns of the higher classes, and the speech
of their characters contains a high frequency of OC, an overt symbol of prestige.
However, the effect of years of schooling is unquestionable and it is increasing in urban
areas. In a trend study based on two random samples of the community of Rio de Janeiro
(sociolinguistic interviews recorded in 1980 and 2000), Scherre and Naro (2014) found an
increase in the rates of OC (from 73 percent through 83 percent) and also a robust increase in
the effect of schooling. This is indicated in Table 29.1 by the ranges, which go from 12 through
56.1
Thus, the effect of schooling expands and appears as a watershed in VC in Brazil, espe-
cially in the more monitored styles captured by sociolinguistic interviews.2
In fact, the
number of years of schooling has a regular effect in other urban areas of Brazil (Table 29.1).
The range is broader (76) when the sample includes illiterate speakers, as is the case of
Monte’s analysis for an small town in the State of São Paulo. Vieira and Bazenga (2013: 25)
show similar results for two neighborhoods in Rio de Janeiro.
Brandão and Vieira (2012) and Vieira and Bazenga (2013) discuss the status of VC in recent
samples of BP, EP and AP, adopting Labov’s typology of linguistic rules according to
frequency: a rule is “categorical” if it applies in 100 percent of the cases; it is a “semi‐categorical”
if it applies from 95 percent to 99 percent of the cases; and it is a “variable rule” if it applies
from 5 percent to 95 percent of the cases. As shown in Tables 29.1 and 29.2, only speakers
Main Current Processes of Morphosyntactic Variation  529
with 9–11 years or more of schooling from Rio de Janeiro 2000/2010, from São Tomé (Africa),
and from Funchal (non‐continental EP) exhibit a semi‐categorical rule or are close to this.
In contrast, recent data for Continental EP show (close‐to) semi‐categorical OC for all
groups. Vieira and Bazenga (2013: 12), analyzing two comparable neighborhoods in the
capital of Portugal, Lisbon, found high frequencies of OC, ranging from 95 percent through
99.1 percent; Monte (2012) shows that even illiterate speakers from Évora exhibit 91.2 per-
cent of OC. Illiterate Brazilians from cities in the State of São Paulo located far from the
capital show only 19 percent of overt SVC.
Thus, percentages of overt SVC in EP can be much higher than those found for BP; still,
according to the Labovian typology, it can be characterized as a variable rule. And, indeed,
it does show schooling effects, as revealed by Monguilhott (2009). She has analyzed four
Table 29.1  Subject–Verb Concord of 3rd person according to years of schooling in BP:
samples of Rio de Janeiro (RJ) and São Paulo (SP).
Samples
Years
of schooling
Scherre and Naro (2014: 336; 341) Rubio (2012: 347) Monte (2012: 135)
Rio de Janeiro‐RJ
1980
Rio de Janeiro‐RJ
2000
São José do Rio
Preto‐SP
São Carlos‐SP
RW % RW % RW % RW %
Illiterate – – – – – – .15 19%
1–4 .43 63% .26 78% .22 52% .35 40%
5–8 .55 78% .50 85% .41 66% .91 85%
9–11 .54 82% .82 95% .52 77% – –
>11 – – – – .71 88% – –
Range 12 56 57 76
% Overall 73% 83% 73% 48%
N 4660 2069 2699 1422
Table 29.2  Subject–Verb Concord of 3rd person according to years of schooling in BP, AP
and EP: samples of 2010 Luso‐Brazilian Project.
Samples
Years
of schooling
Vieira and Bazenga (2013: 25) Barreto (2014: 93)
BP: Copacabana
Rio de Janeiro—Brazil
AP: São Tomé
São Tome e
Príncipe—Central Africa
EP: Funchal
Island
of Madeira—Portugal
RW % RW % RW %
5–8 .17 73% .14 83% .16 90%
9–11 .41 89% .49 93% .47 96%
>11 .79 98% .81 98% .73 96%
Range 62 67 57
% Overall 88% 92% 91%
N 1395 737 1226
530  Maria Marta Pereira Scherre and Maria Eugênia Lammoglia Duarte
localities in Lisbon and four localities in Florianópolis, the capital of Santa Catarina, South of
Brazil, considering two school levels and two age groups (Table 29.3). Schooling is, again,
significant for BP; moreover, it shows a stronger effect in Continental EP: all groups analyzed
present a variable rule for 3rd person SVC, and RWs for speakers with 5–8 years of schooling
disfavor OC when compared to those with more than 11 years of schooling.
It must also be noticed that the younger group with higher school levels favors OC in BP.
This is in accordance with Naro and Scherre’s (2013) results that show an increase in OC among
younger speakers in the PEUL 2000 sample, and supports Naro’s (1981) speculation of a pos-
sible reversal in the direction towards the elimination of agreement marks. This also provides
an additional evidence for the model of flows and counterflows sketched by Naro and Scherre
(2013) for variable number concord in Brazil. The model claims that conflicting trends should
be natural in stigmatized linguistic phenomena strongly embedded in the language.
2.2.2.  SVC concord with nós and a gente
As we have seen in Section 2.2.1, there is evidence for an increase in SVC concord with 3rd
person plural according to schooling and age, with younger speakers leading concord in the
2000 sample for Rio de Janeiro. However, Mattos (2013) notices opposite effect of age group
for SVC with 1st person plural pronoun nós “we” (examples (2a, b)) in the speech of Goiás,
center‐west of Brazil, with data from speakers with over nine years of schooling: younger
speakers show lower rates of OC with nós “we,” although lack of OC with nós usually receives
strong stigma in urban areas. Mattos interprets this as an index of local identity, because of the
increasing prestige associated to rural areas in the center‐west of Brazil. Still another picture
emerges from Rubio’s (2012) analysis of data from speakers with 1  to 12 years of schooling in
inner São Paulo: the pattern is curvilinear for age groups, suggesting stable variation in which
intermediate age groups, usually inserted in the labor market, change their linguistic
performance. We can see these conflicting trends again in the light of the model of flows and
counterflows, though both studies of variable concord with nós also relate more OC to higher
school level, reflecting the prestige associated to standard OC in Portuguese.
In EP, SVC with nós is not variable. However, SVC with the 3rd person singular a gente (lit.
“the people,” but meaning “we”) is more variable in EP than in BP (Table 29.4). As in (3a),
the 3rd person singular verb form with a gente indicates standard concord; as in (3b), the
1st person plural form indicates lack of grammatical concord, a non‐standard, strongly
Table 29.3  Subject–Verb Concord of 3rd person according to
years of schooling and age: samples from of Lisbon, Portugal
and Florianópolis, Brazil (Monguilhot 2009: 132, 156).
Samples
Years of
schooling	Age
Florianópolis‐BP Lisbon‐EP
RW % RW %
5–8 15–36 .32 72% .30 89%
5–8 48–74 .28 67% .49 90%
>11 22–33 .74 89% .61 94%
>11 45–76 .52 88% .59 92%
Range 46 31
% Overall 80% 91%
N 794 807
Main Current Processes of Morphosyntactic Variation  531
stigmatized, construction in urban BP. Rubio’s results in Table  29.4 reveal that concord
reaches 93 percent in BP, and 76 percent in EP. In this case, BP exhibits more standard forms
than EP.
Other results for BP confirm overall percentages in Table 29.4 (Naro, Gӧrski, and Fernandes
1999, Mattos 2013). Otherwise, the 76 percent of concord shows that SVC with a gente is a var-
iable rule in EP, and the RWs show strong social constraints: female and older speakers, as well
as speakers with more years of schooling, favor standard concord. As for BP, the only factor
statistically significant is age, with younger groups reversing the path and favoring standard
concord. We speculate that non‐standard concord in EP is related to the fact that lexical a gente
has not been fully integrated into the pronominal system in EP, having an uncertain status,
hence being more susceptible to semantic agreement with its plural meaning (cf. Section 3.1).
2.3.  Linguistic dimensions of variation in Brazil and Portugal
2.3.1.  SVC with 3rd person plural
SVC variation in BP and EP shows differences and similarities related not only to social but
also to linguistic constraints. On the one hand, phonic salience in the opposition singular/
plural of 3rd person verb forms seems to be remarkable only in BP (Naro 1981); on the other,
verb transitivity constrains variable SVC only in EP (Monguilhot 2009; Monte 2012). These
are interesting differences, requiring further research. Still, SVC variation in the two varieties
does show similarities, such as with respect to subject position and animacy.
Table 29.4  Subject–Verb Concord with a gente according social constraints:
samples from BP (ALIP) and EP (CRPC) (Rubio 2012: 301, 302, 305).
Samples
Constraints
São José do Rio Preto,
São Paulo‐BP
EP
RW % RW %
Age
16–25 .61 96% .35 58%
26–35 .30 90% .55 77%
36–55 .49 94% .58 77%
>55 .60 96% .70 97%
Range 31 35
Years of schooling
1–4 94% – .39 69%
5–8 92% – .54 81%
9–11 96% – .66 85%
>11 95% – .70 95%
Range 31
Gender
Male 93% – .36 71%
Female 95% – .87 84%
Range 51
% Overall 93% 76%
N 1602 200
532  Maria Marta Pereira Scherre and Maria Eugênia Lammoglia Duarte
Table 29.5 shows that preverbal subjects tend to favor OC, whereas postverbal subjects
tend to disfavor it. Barreto (2014) and Rubio (2012) found similar results for other Brazilian
and European samples.
Table 29.6 shows that [+animate] subjects favor OC; [‐animate] subjects disfavor it, in both
varieties. There are further results pointing in the same direction.
The regularity of such linguistic effects resulting from different samples of Portuguese
is really striking. They have also been attested in texts of Archaic Portuguese, and in data
collected in Portuguese Dialectology (Naro and Scherre 2000; 2007). This indicates persis-
tent constraints in the varieties analyzed, with very regular oppositions, signaling a deep
linguistic embedding of Variable Concord in spite of undeniable differences. Preverbal
subjects and [+animate] referents promote more overt plural marks because they are more
salient in a broader sense. As Naro (1981: 97) claims, “salience is a general property of the
linguistic system.” (See also Labov 1994: 560–568.)
Table 29.6  SVC of 3rd person verb forms according subject animacity in Brazilian and
European Portuguese.
Samples
Animacy
of subject
Scherre and Naro (2014)
Personal archive
Monguilhott
(2009: 145)
Barreto
(2014: 97)
1980‐RJ 2000‐RJ Lisbon‐Portugal Funchal, Island of
Madeira‐Portugal
RW % RW % RW % RW %
+animate .54 76% .52 84% .61 96% .58 97%
–animate .31 54% .32 75% .11 71% .25 83%
Range 23 35 50 33
% Overall 73% 83% 92% 95%
N 4660 2059 807 1226
Table 29.5  SVC of 3rd person verb forms according to subject position in Brazilian and
European Portuguese.
Samples
Position
of subject
Scherre and Naro (2014)
Personal archive
Monguilhott
(2009: 146)
Monte
(2012: 91)
1980‐RJ‐Brazil 2000‐RJ‐Brazil Lisbon‐Portugal Évora‐Portugal
RW % RW % RW % RW %
Preverbal .54 78% .52 85% .56 92% .58 95%
Postverbal .09 26% .17 53% .18 59% .24 77%
Range 45 34 34 38 34
% Overall 75% 88% 88% 91%
N 3253 1436 453 914
Main Current Processes of Morphosyntactic Variation  533
2.3.2.  SVC concord with a gente and nós
Rubio’s (2012) analysis reveals that one of the main structural variables in SVC with a gente
in EP is the verb tense (in the indicative mood): preterite favors non‐standard usage of overt
1st person inflection –mos with a gente (example (3b)). In BP, preterite is also decisive for
the presence of the inflection –mos, in particular with the plural pronoun nós, the standard
concord. Naro, Gӧrski and Fernandes (1999), studying the speech of speakers with low
level of schooling, found 97.6 percent of inflection –mos with nós in the preterite; but only
35.8 percent in the present. The authors suggest that, in some speech communities, –mos may
tend to become a mark of preterit, and its absence a mark of the present.
Indeed, this is the pattern found in rural speech of Santa Leopoldina, State of Espírito
Santo, Southeast of Brazil (Scherre et al. 2014): 99.4 percent of the preterite forms show –mos
when preterite and present have the same form in the standard paradigm; but only 7 percent
of the present forms show –mos. That is, in this variety the presence of –mos distinguishes
preterite and present forms for verbs that, in standard language, have one and the same form
for both tenses: Nós conversamos muito can mean either “we talked a lot” or “we talk a lot.” In
the relevant varieties, Nós conversa muito “we talk.∅ a lot” would oppose to Nós conversamos
muito “we talked.1ppl a lot.” Interestingly, the opposition is much weaker when the verb has
different forms for preterite and present. In the same sample, 100 percent of preterite forms
show –mos when there is no syncretism (as with irregular ir “to go”: Nós fomos “we went.1ppl”
vs. nós vamos “we go.1ppl”); and almost 70 percent of present forms also show –mos—that is,
30 percent show no concord—under the same circumstances. In these cases, there is no
possibility of ambiguity. The main principle working here is the phonic salience of singular/
plural opposition (Naro, Gӧrski, and Fernandes 1999).
In Brazil, SVC with nós is deeply embedded in the linguistic system. Besides the resolution
of paradigm ambiguities, one should consider the cognitive aspects underlying the effect of
phonic salience. Moreover, we can also see effects of old structural diachronic tendencies. For
example, the rare presence of –mos with imperfect forms may be a result of the tendency to
avoid antepenultimate stress (Nós conversava “We used‐to‐talk.∅,” as opposed to the standard
Nós conversávamos “We used‐to‐talk.1ppl”), a major trend from Latin to Iberian Romance.
3.  Variation related to the pronominal system
3.1.  Variation in subject forms in EP and BP
In Table 29.7 we show the set of nominative pronouns in EP and BP. The 2nd person plural
vós (in bold) is absent in spoken BP, and though it is rare in EP, it can still occur as a clitic, an
oblique or a possessive form (vos “you,” convosco “with you,” vosso “yours”) in combination
with 2nd person plural vocês. As for the underlined forms, Raposo (2013: 897–900) suggests
they do not belong to the canonical set of nominative pronouns in EP, because with these
forms semantic person does not match grammatical person. That is, for Raposo only the
pronouns that trigger their own person concord should be incorporated to the canonical set.
In this view, você(s) and a gente, which combine with unmarked 3rd person verb form,
deserve especial treatment. In this connection, it is important to recall these forms have a
nominal origin, você deriving from the address form Vossa Mercê “your mercy,” and a gente
(literally “the people”) being a grammaticalization of the corresponding collective NP (see
Chapter 28, Main Morphosyntactic Changes and Gramaticalization Processes).
Indeed, você and a gente do not seem so fully grammaticalized in EP as they are in BP. In EP,
tu and você are in complementary distribution: tu is a familiar form of address; você, usually
null in the singular, indicates different degrees of social distance between interlocutors and
534  Maria Marta Pereira Scherre and Maria Eugênia Lammoglia Duarte
is in variation with proper names as well as with other forms of address that express higher
degrees of courtesy, such as o senhor (“the lord”), as in (5).
(5) A Maria/o senhor deseja mais alguma coisa?
the Mary/the lord wish.3ps anything else?
“Do you (Mary)/you (Sir) wish anything else?”
In Brazil, você is in variation with tu in many regions, with the predominance of one or the
other. A similar difference is true for the pronominal 1st person plural a gente, which is less
frequent than the canonical pronoun nós in EP. A reflex of this slower implementation in the
pronominal system is the persistence of its nominal use, as shown in (6):
(6) [NP
A gente que se encontra neste recinto] corre um grave perigo. (Raposo 2013: 900)
the people who is.3ps in this place runs.3ps a serious risk
“[NP
The people who are in this place] run a serious risk”
In BP, the noun gente “people” has very restricted use, appearing just in a few combinations
with quantifiers (muita/pouca gente “a lot of/few people”). For (6), BP would resort to the
plural noun as pessoas (literally “the persons”). This reinforces the conclusion that in BP a
gente basically has lost its nominal use and is fully inserted in the pronominal system, as
attested by its preference over nós, either with definite 1st person plural or generic interpre-
tation, as will be shown.
As a consequence of these differences, BP does show fewer verb oppositions, that is, its
verb paradigm is more reduced than the EP. This should be, at least in part, responsible for
the tendency to use more overt nominative pronouns in BP. In the remaining parts of this
section we will focus on some social and structural constraints related to the variable use of
tu/você, nós/a gente, overt/null pronominal subjects, but we will also briefly comment on the
variation related to clitic complements, comparing BP and EP whenever possible.
3.1.1.  The alternation tu/você in BP
Contrary to what happens in EP (Section 3.1), where there is no competition between tu/você
but complementary distribution determined by interactional relations, the variation between
the two forms (including você’s reduced forms, cê and ocê) is remarkable in BP.
First, the alternation tu/você is a system of diatopic variation in BP. Scherre et al. (2015)
reviewed a representative number of studies using different methods of data collecting,
covering approximately 60 samples and 29,000 tokens. The analysis of these data indicates
Table 29.7  Nominative Pronouns in EP and BP and the inflectional paradigm
for the verb estudar (“to study”) in the Indicative Present.
Person Nominative pronouns European Portuguese Brazilian Portuguese
1ps eu estudo estudo
1pp nós
a gente
estuda(mos)
estuda(mos)
estuda(mos)
estuda(mos)
2ps tu
você
estudas
estuda
estuda(s)
estuda
2pp vós
vocês
estudais
estudam
……….
estuda(m)
3ps ele, ela estuda estuda
3pp eles, elas estudam estuda(m)
Main Current Processes of Morphosyntactic Variation  535
the existence of six sub‐systems for 2nd person reference, characterized by the following
factors: the possible presence of tu, the frequency of tu, the presence or absence of use of
the canonical verb inflection –s and, finally, the average rate of OC with tu. The geographic
distribution of these subsystems does not coincide with the current political division of the
country in 26 states; rather, it may reflect different moments of colonization and different
flows of immigration and migration.
Another remarkable feature of the system is non‐overt OC, that is, the lack of the overt
2nd person singular canonical agreement mark –s has no significant stigma associated to it.
Moreover, as regards the pronominal system in BP, besides the variation tu/você, only the
variable use of the reflexive clitic pronouns shows significant geographic influence. For all
other phenomena to be presented in this section, the distribution of variants is very regular
across the different regions in Brazil. And, differently from variable concord, the social
restriction most frequently co‐related to variation in the pronominal system, at least in the
urban areas, is age group; the influence of years of schooling is rarer.
3.1.2.  The alternation nós/a gente in BP
The process of replacement of nós by a gente in BP has been largely investigated in the past
25 years, since Omena’s (1986) analysis of the speech of Rio de Janeiro using the PEUL Project
1980 sample (see note 2). Omena studied the variation in apparent time (i.e. across age groups)
and the results suggested change in progress. A trend study, comparing the 1980 data with a
new sample of the same community, confirmed this initial hypothesis, as shown in Table 29.8.
We can see that the two synchronies reveal the age pattern of variation and change in the
community. First, the younger groups show higher rates of use of a gente than the older groups.
Moreover, when we move from the 1980 sample to the 2000, we see a regular increase of use of
the innovative pronoun for all age groups, the increase being again higher for younger groups.
Since the process is already very advanced, the picture is consistent with an S‐shaped curve,
which predicts a reduction in the speed of a change process as it reaches completion.3
Vianna and Lopes (2015) present a thorough mapping of the phenomenon in Brazil, review-
ing 22 studies carried out in 11 states of the Federation, including capitals and other cities,
some considered important industrial areas whereas other are more isolated. All the studies
confirm Omena’s results, even though change seems to progress faster in capitals and larger
cities. Age always shows statistical significance, suggesting generational change (Labov 1994:
83–84; 112). The fact that the use of a gente in speech is not subject to stigma may be responsible
for its impressive spread in Brazil. The same does not happen in Portugal, as shown by Vianna
and Lopes (2013, Table 29.9), based on recent comparable samples of EP and BP.
Table 29.8  Use of a gente (vs nós) according to age group: two
samples of a community in Rio de Janeiro (Omena 2003: 66).
Samples
Age group
1980 2000
RW % RW %
7–14 .79 89% .84 94%
15–25 .70 87% .84 93%
26–49 .34 73% .43 83%
>50 .20 58% .22 65%
Range 59 62
% Overall 77% 79%
N 1295 968
536  Maria Marta Pereira Scherre and Maria Eugênia Lammoglia Duarte
As mentioned in Section 3.1, the NP a gente, with fully compositional syntax and semantics,
is still common in EP, which indicates its slower process of grammaticalization as a pronom-
inal element. In BP, the large preference for a gente over the old pronoun nós shows its
integration into the pronominal system.
3.1.3.  The alternation overt/null subjects
The variation tu/você—which induces the loss of –s as the verb inflection for 2nd person
singular—and the replacement of nós by a gente are both changes that lead to the use of the
unmarked verb form, the 3rd person singular, instead of other specific verb forms for person
(see Table 29.8). This is certainly the source of the significant reduction in the number of
oppositions in BP inflectional paradigm mentioned before. It would be counter‐intuitive to
postulate the inverse process, that is, to claim that the loss of verb inflection started before
the emergence of the new pronominal forms: the use of the 3rd person singular verb form,
unmarked for inflection, is a consequence of the nominal origins of the new pronouns (você
and a gente). Moreover, the reduction in the verb oppositions has been related to the well‐
known tendency to use overt nominative pronouns in BP. This makes sense, since the new
generalized verb form is not able to distinguish discourse persons by itself anymore.
Licensing and identification of null subjects in BP today are no longer related to inflection.
Empirical evidence for this comes from Duarte’s (1993, 2000) study of popular theater plays
of the nineteenth and twentieth century. Before the neutralization of tu/você, i.e. when the pro-
nouns were in complementary distribution as they still are in EP, and before the propagation
of a gente, the inflectional verb paradigm exhibited five or six different forms; concomitantly,
null subjects were much more frequent than overt subjects. Duarte’s results for a play written
in 1992, the last across seven synchronies, reveal an impressive similarity with those found by
Duarte (1995) for a speech sample recorded in 1992 with university graduates. In the same
study, Duarte analyzed a sample of spoken EP taken from CRPC (see note 2); speakers were
distributed according to the same social stratification used for BP sample. Table 29.10 shows a
clear case of change in apparent time for BP; age was, in fact, the only social factor to show
statistical significance for BP. For EP, age was not significant—all age groups prefer null subjects.4
Among the structural variables considered by Duarte (1995; 2000), only coreference with
the subject of the previous matrix clause (Table 29.11) and animacy of 3rd person subjects
(Table 29.12) showed statistical significance for both BP and EP.
The RWs, with the same virtual range for BP and EP, confirm the effect of coreference in the
realizationofapronominalsubjectinlanguageswhichhaveanullsubjectasanoption.Thepercentage
differences, however, show that even if the conditioning is similar, the two varieties are still pretty
different systems: in the most unfavorable context for a null subject, i.e., a non‐coreferential ante-
cedent, BP reaches 88 percent of overt pronouns, whereas EP shows 51 percent; and in the most
favorable contexts, a coreferential antecedent, BP already shows 68 percent of overt pronouns,
but EP only 9 percent. Considering these results in the light of the Null Subject Parameter, it is
clear that EP behaves like a stable system of null subjects, whereas BP exhibits overt pronouns
even when there is a coreferential antecedent. This indicates that BP is becoming a non‐null
­
subject language (cf. Duarte 1995, 2000, Barbosa, Duarte, and Kato 2005, inter alia).
Table 29.9  Use of a gente (vs nós): samples from Rio de Janeiro and Lisbon (Lopes and Vianna
2013: 83).
Nova Iguaçu, RJ Copacabana, RJ Cacém, Lisbon Oeiras, Lisbon
n/N % n/N % n/N % n/N %
513/664 77% 628/768 82% 152/691 22% 68/787 9%
Main Current Processes of Morphosyntactic Variation  537
As for the animacy of the referent, once again there are important differences between BP
and EP, shown in Table 29.12.
Though the feature [+animate] (Mary, the boy, my daughter) favors overt pronouns in
both varieties, as shown by RWs, percentages are again very different for each variety,
which is consistent with the results for the other factors. With features [–animate] (the
house, Rio de Janeiro) and [generic] (a man, men, a house, houses), we see that EP avoids overt
Table 29.10  Overt (vs null) subjects in BP and
EP according to age group.
Samples
Age group
BP EP
RW % %
25–35 .59 78% 35%
36–45 .54 73% 25%
>46 .38 61% 25%
Range 21
% Overall 71% 28%
N 1009/1424 144/508
Table 29.11  Overt (vs null) subjects in BP and EP
according to coreference with previous subject.
Samples
Coreference
BP EP
RW % RW %
No .64 88% .75 51%
Yes .38 68% .46 9%
Range 26 29
% Overall 77% 29%
N 313/405 51/174
Table 29.12  Overt (vs null) subjects in BP and EP
according to animacy of the referent.
Samples
Animacy
BP EP
RW % RW %
[+animate] .59 68% .78 39%
[–animate] .39 56% .25 6%
[generic] .29 44% .29 4%
Range 30 53
% Overall 62% 21%
N 337/546 43/209
538  Maria Marta Pereira Scherre and Maria Eugênia Lammoglia Duarte
pronouns, which is also consistent with the behavior of Romance Null Subject Languages.
In BP, these features are more resistant to overt pronouns; however, percentages are still
expressive. If one considers that variation is a condition to change, it is impossible not to
interpret the preference for overt referential pronominal subjects in BP as an evidence of
change in progress. A number of analyses focusing on the expression of pronominal
subjects confirm the role of coreference and of animacy in the change underway in BP
(Barbosa, Duarte, and Kato 2005).
3.2.  Variation in complement forms
In the set of clitic pronouns (Table 29.13), we underline forms that have disappeared or
are almost extinct in spoken BP, regardless of school level (see references in Duarte and
Ramos 2015).
Only 1st and 2nd person singular clitics (me, te) are consistently used in BP. 2nd person
plural vos as well as nominative pronoun vós (Table 29.7) have completely disappeared. 1st
person plural clitic nos, due to the obsolescence of nominative nós (Section 3.1.2), is rare in
spontaneous speech in urban areas, even among older people (Duarte 1995, inter alia).
Accusative o(s), a(s) and dative lhe(s)—originally 3rd person, but also used with você—are
even rarer in spoken BP. And other forms of address are very rare in speech. A consequence
of this—and at the same time an important evidence of the full insertion of você in BP
pronominal system (Section 3.1)—is the combination of nominative você with the dative or
acusative clitic te, originally belonging to the paradigm of nominative tu:5
(7) Eu não te dei o livro porque você não veio à escola
I not te (to you) gave the book because você (you) not came to‐the school
“I didn’t give you the book because you didn’t come to school”
This combination is not attested in EP, which supports the idea that in EP tu/você are com-
plementary in EP, and você has a lower degree of grammaticalization. The combination
noticed in EP is the use of nominative vocês (2nd person plural) with the clitic vos belonging
to the nominative vós paradigm (Raposo 2013).
The only group of clitics subject to regional variation in Brazil belongs to the reflexive
system: in most regions investigated, they are very stable (8a), (9a); but in the South‐East
region, especially in the State of Minas Gerais, they are preferably null, regardless of their
argumental status (8b), (9b).6
Table 29.13  System of clitics in EP and BP.
Person
Reflexive
Clitics
Accusative
Clitics
Dative
Clitics
Indefinite
Clitic
1ps me me me
se
1pp nos nos nos
2ps te
se
te
o,a, lhe,te
te
lhe, te
2pp vos
se
vos
os, as
vos
lhes
3ps Se o, a lhe
3pp Se os, as lhes
Main Current Processes of Morphosyntactic Variation  539
(8) a. Eu me formei em 1970.
I me (myself) graduated in 1970
b. Eu formei em 1970.
“I graduated in 1970”
(9) a. Ele se suicidou.
He se (himself) killed
b. Ele suicidou.
“He committed suicide”
Variation affecting 3rd person accusative and dative clitics has a regular distribution all over
Brazil. A comparative analysis of variable use of 3rd person accusative clitics in BP and EP
was carried out by Freire (2000), based on data from NURC‐RJ for BP and CRPC for EP. Four
strategies were attested (all sentences may be an answer to “Have you seen João lately?”):
(10) a. Eu o vi ontem (written standard BP)/(Eu) vi‐o ontem (EP)
I him saw yesterday/(I) saw‐him yesterday
b. Eu vi ele ontem (spoken BP)7
I saw he yesterday
c. Eu vi o João/o cara ontem (BP/EP)
I saw the João/the guy yesterday
d. Eu vi ontem (BP/EP)
I saw [ø] yesterday
“I saw him yesterday”
Table 29.14 summarizes Freire’s results:
Freire’s comparison shows that 3rd person accusative clitic is almost absent in the speech
of university graduated speakers of BP (3 percent), with preference for the anaphoric NP and
the null object. EP, on the other hand, exhibits an expressive rate of 3rd person accusative clitic
in speech (44 percent)—the same rate university graduated Brazilians exhibit in writing—but
also shows a significant use of null objects. However, the literature reports that constraints on
null objects are more restrict in EP (see Chapter 17, Null Objects and VP Ellipsis).
Examples in (11) show the clitic lhe and two variant strategies (sentences may be an
answer to “What did you give Mary for her birthday?”):
(11) a. Eu dei‐lhe um livro (EP)
I gave‐lhe (her) a book
b. Eu dei um livro pra ela (BP)/Eu dei um livro a ela (EP)
I gave a book to her (to=para, pra/to=a)
c. Eu dei um livro (EP/BP)
I gave a book [ø]
“I gave her a book/a book to her”
Table 29.14  The accusative 3rd person clitic and its variants (Freire 2000).
Samples
Variants
BP EP
n/N % n/N %
Clitic o(s)/a(s) 4/117 3% 48/109 44%
Nominative pronoun 5/117 4% – –
Anaphoric NP 40/117 34% 27/109 25%
Null object 68/117 59% 34/109 31%
540  Maria Marta Pereira Scherre and Maria Eugênia Lammoglia Duarte
Freire’s (2000) results on clitic lhe and its variants are shown in Table 29.15. Though
the sample has a small number of tokens, it is clear that dative lhe as a 3rd person form
is absent in BP and productive in EP.
Other studies on BP samples, including popular speech, confirm the absence of lhe for 3rd
person reference in spoken BP.8
In standard writing it reaches about 30 percent.
Finally, we have the standard indefinite se, which suspends the external argument in active
and passive structures. It is also almost extinct in spoken BP; alternative strategies come from
nominative pronouns, particularly você and a gente, used to convey generic meaning.9
(12) a. Não se vê mais chapéu (?BP/EP)
not se.cl see.3ps more hat
b. Você não vê mais chapéu (BP)
you not see more hat
c. Não vê mais chapéu (BP)
not see.3ps more hat
d. A gente não vê mais chapéu (BP/?EP)
the people not see.3ps more hat
e. Nós não vemos mais chapéu (?BP
/EP)
we not see.1pp more hat
“One doesn’t see hats any more,” “Hats are not seen any more”
The use of você in BP reaches the same rate attested for clitic se in EP (Table 29.16). The
second strategy in BP—the 3rd person singular verb form with no other mark—is used to
convey genericity (12c), and also necessity. This strategy is completely absent in EP.
Table 29.15  The 3rd person dative clitic and its variants (Freire 2000).
Samples
Variants
BP EP
n/N % n/N %
Clitic lhe(s) – – 29/33 88%
Anaphoric PP 9/14 64% 1/33 3%
Null dative 5/14 36% 3/33 9%
Table 29.16  The indefinite se and its variants (Duarte 2000).
Samples
Variants
BP EP
n/N % n/N %
clitic se 26 9% 36 51%
Você 140 52% 5 7%
Ø+3ps 56 21% – –
a gente 41 15% 18 25%
Nós 8 3% 12 17%
271 71
Main Current Processes of Morphosyntactic Variation  541
In sum, with respect to clitics, EP shows a more stable paradigm than BP, particularly for
3rd person. BP resorts to nominative pronouns or null categories for pronominal anaphora
with accusatives and datives. This system is established in spontaneous speech for all age
groups and in all areas studied. The extremely low rates of clitics in the speech of university
graduates show that they do not carry to their speech the forms learned through schooling.
Moreover, the innovative colloquial variants are already being implemented in written
language.
4.  Final remarks
As we have seen, analyses of urban sociolinguistic data in Brazil have captured social
constraints such as years of schooling, age and gender, and, in the case of samples col-
lected in other speech communities, contact with urban areas also has statistical signifi-
cance. Thus, people who produce more OC are those with higher schooling level, in more
contact with urban areas, more exposed to situations of linguistic sensibility and occu-
pying higher positions in the work market. This is an expected direction for phenomena
subject to social stigma. Even so, we emphasize that variable concord is common in Brazil
even among highly educated people in spontaneous speech. A brief survey of data from
natural interactions (Pereira and Scherre 1995 apud Scherre and Naro 2014, 349) reveals
that one speaker with over 11 years of schooling shows 98 percent, 91 percent and 24 per-
cent of 3rd person overt SVC when interacting with the boss, the wife or the employees,
respectively. Indeed the type of interaction or stylistic dimension for SVC and NPC has to
be further explored in Portuguese.
As regards structural conditioning of number concord, we know phonic salience of the
verb operates systematically in SVC and in NPC in BP. In EP, the type of verb according to
transitivity is effective. However, in BP the statistical relevance of the type of the verb
emerged only when Monguilhott (2009: 128–130) excluded the factors subject position and
animacy from the quantitative analysis. In BP, the type of verb is relevant for the order
of the subject (unaccusative verbs really favor VS), but, as far as we know, not for SVC
concord: its effect is indirect. These three aspects deserve further examination in future
research.
As for pronouns, EP shows a more stable system, very close to the standard system
described in normative grammars still inspiring Brazilian formal education. The BP native
system, however, has moved away from the standard. With respect to subject form, it shows
full grammaticalization of você and a gente, forms that take the unmarked 3rd person singular
verb form, and an intricate regional variation between tu/você for 2nd person singular ref-
erence. Because of these and other facts (for 3rd person plural, there is also variation in con-
cord, cf. Eles comem/Eles come “They eat.pl/They eat.sg” are found), one can say that BP verb
paradigm is extremely reduced in number of oppositions. This must be related to the strong
tendency to avoid null definite and arbitrary subjects.
With respect to the clitic complements, BP also reveals a remarkable reduction in the 3rd
person set. Though such almost extinct forms are partially recovered by school action, they
remain almost completely absent in spontaneous speech, even for speakers with longer
permanence in school and frequent contact with reading. In monitored styles, rates of 3rd
person clitics can be a little higher but they cannot be considered expressive. The oblique
pronoun set also attests innovations in BP, with a large use of nominative forms preceded by
prepositions. The reduction attested in the clitic and the oblique paradigms is certainly
embedded in a social matrix and surely deserves further investigation. The non‐salience
of null categories in complement function may explain the absence of stigma and the
542  Maria Marta Pereira Scherre and Maria Eugênia Lammoglia Duarte
remarkable propagation of null objects. Conversely, the salience of nominative pronouns in
accusative function, even though much rarer than null objects, may explain the stigma
against these forms instigated by grammarians and some teachers.
In sum, this chapter presented two main areas of current morphosyntactic variation in
Portuguese. With respect to number concord, we can see differences, but also similarities, in
the variation found in BP and EP, both in the linguistic and the social aspects. With respect to
the pronominal system, the two varieties seem really to diverge, with BP showing expressive
variation and change, unlike EP. Both processes of variation still need further investigation,
since important social changes in course in the present can affect the picture shown here in
the future.
notes
1	The range measures the difference between the lower and higher relative weights associated to the
factors in each group, showing the strength of a given constraint. Relative weights (RW) are values
projected by appropriate statistical programs and reveal abstract properties; through corrected
frequencies, they show the real effects of factors of each independent variables (Naro 1981; Scherre
and Naro 2014).
2	 The samples come from corpora of the following sources: PEUL (Programa de Estudos sobre o Uso
da Língua, www.letras.ufrj.br/peul); NURC (Norma Urbana Culta, www.letras.ufrj.br/nurc‐rj);
ALIP (Amostra Linguística do Interior Paulista, www.iboruna.ibilce.unesp.br); CRPC (Corpus de
Referência do Português Contemporâneo, for EP, in Nascimento et al. 1987); Luso‐Brazilian Project
(www.concordancia.letras.ufrj.br).
3	 Unlike a curvilinear pattern, an S‐shaped curve shows the course of change in progress: it starts
slowly, then it tends to accelerate, to finally show reduced speed as the process reaches completion
with a new form replacing an old variant (Paiva and Duarte 2003).
4	 The results for BP in Tables 29.10, 29.11 and 29.12 are adapted from Duarte (1995); those for EP have
been reviewed for the present chapter.
5	 A related innovation is the increasing use of lhe in accusative function in variation with te; see note 8.
As we said, lhe is rare for 3rd person reference; actually, it has not been attested in the studies
carried out so far.
6	 Oblique reflexives also deserve mention: whereas EP preserves the complete paradigm (mim mesmo
“myself,” ti mesmo “yourself),” si mesmo “himself,” etc.), BP prefers the nominative forms + mesmo
(“self”), already implemented even in writing.
7	 Though the use of nominative ele(s)/ela(s) in object position in BP is often observed in the descriptive
literature, sociolinguistic studies show they have low frequency (4 percent to 15 percent in
spontaneous speech), depending on the level of education. Such studies also point out the use of 1st
and 2nd nominative pronouns in accusative functions. In BP all nominative pronouns can appear as
complements (direct, indirect, oblique), though 1st and 2nd person are more socially constrained.
However, rates are significantly higher when the pronoun appears in “exceptional Case marking
structures”: Eu fiz ela sair lit. “I made she leave”; Ela acha eu legal literally “She finds I nice.”
8	 Interestingly, the obsolescent 3rd person dative lhe appears as an accusative with 2nd person refer-
ence in variation with te, a process which started in the northeast of the country but reaches Rio de
Janeiro, in the southeast (see references in Duarte and Ramos 2015):
Eu te/lhe vi ontem
I you saw yesterday
“I saw you yesterday.”
9	 Table 29.16 does not include another strategy for arbitrary subjects, namely, the 3rd person plural
verb form, which usually excludes the speaker. BP shows variation between overt pronoun and null
category, whereas EP only shows a null category: (Eles) estão roubando carro(s) no campus “They are
stealing cars in the campus” (see Duarte 1995; 2000).
Main Current Processes of Morphosyntactic Variation  543
References
Barbosa, P., M. E. L. Duarte, and M. A. Kato
(2005). Null subjects in European and Brazilian
Portuguese. Journal of Portuguese Linguistics, 4
(2), pp. 11–52.
Bortoni‐Ricardo, S. M. (1998). A análise do
português brasileiro em três continua: o
continuum rural‐urbano, o continuum de
oralidade‐letramento, o continuum de
monitoração estilística. In S. GroBe and
K. Zimmermann (eds.), “Substandard” e mudança
no português do Brasil. Frankfurt am Main: Teo
Ferrer de Mesquita, pp. 101–118.
Barreto, F. V. V. (2014). A concordância verbal de
3ª. Pessoa do plural no português brasileiro.
Ph.D. dissertation, Federal University of Rio
de Janeiro.
Brandão, S. F. and S. R. Vieira (2012).
Concordância nominal e verbal: contribuições
para o debate sobre o estatuto da variação em
três variedades urbanas do português. Alfa, 56
(3), pp. 1035–1064.
Duarte, M. E. L. (1993). Do pronome nulo ao
pronome pleno: a trajetória do sujeito no
português do Brasil. In I. Roberts and M. A.
Kato (eds.), Português Brasileiro: Uma Viagem
Diacrônica. Campinas: Editora da Unicamp,
pp. 107–128.
Duarte, M. E. L. (1995). A perda do princípio
“Evite Pronome” no português brasileiro.
Ph.D. dissertation, Universidade Estadual de
Campinas.
Duarte, M. E. L. (2000). The loss of the Avoid
Pronoun principle in Brazilian Portuguese. In
M. A. Kato and E. V. Negrão (eds.), Brazilian
Portuguese and the Null Subject Parameter.
Frankfurt: Vervuert, pp. 17–36.
Duarte, M. E. L and J. Ramos (2015). Variação nas
funções acusativa, dativa e reflexiva. In M. A.
Martins and J. Abraçado (eds.), Mapeamento
Sociolinguístico do Português Brasileiro. São
Paulo: Contexto, pp. 173–195.
Freire, G. (2000). Os clíticos de terceira pessoa e
as estratégias para sua substituição na fala
culta brasileira e lusitana. Masters
dissertation, Federal University of Rio de
Janeiro.
Labov, W. (1994). Principles of Linguistic Change –
Internal Factors. Cambridge: Blackwell.
Lemle, M.; Naro, A. J. (1977). Competências
básicas do português. Rio de Janeiro: Mobral/
MEC, Ford Foundation. Unpublished
manuscript.
Lopes, C., Vianna, J. S. (2013). Agramaticalização
de  “a gente” no PB e no PE: como explicar as
diferenças nos dois espaços geográficos? In
M. M. Cezário and M. A. Furtado (eds.)
Linguística centrada no uso: homenagem a Mário
Martelotta. Rio de Janeiro: Mauad, pp. 81–96.
Lucchesi, D., A. Baxter, and I. Ribeiro (eds.)
(2009). O Português Afro‐Brasileiro. Salvador:
Editora da Universidade Federal da Bahia.
Mattos, S. E. R. (2013). Goiás na primeira pessoa
do plural. Ph.D. dissertation, Universidade de
Brasília.
Monguilhott, I. (2009). Estudo sincrônico e
diacrônico da concordância verbal de terceira
pessoa do plural no PB e no PE. Ph.D.
dissertation, Universidade Federal de Santa
Catarina.
Monte, A. (2012). Concordância verbal e variação:
um estudo descritivo‐comparativo do
português brasileiro e do português europeu.
Ph.D. dissertation, Universidade Estadual
Paulista em Araraquara.
Naro, A. J. (1981). The social and structural
dimensions of a syntactic change. Language, 57,
pp. 63–98.
Naro, A. J., E. Gӧrski, and E. Fernandes (1999).
Change without change. Language Variation and
Change, 11, pp. 197–211.
Naro, A. J. and M. M. P. Scherre (2000). Variable
concord in Portuguese: the situation in Brazil
and Portugal. In J. McWhorter (ed.), Language
Change and Language Contact in Pidgins and
Creoles. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 235–255.
Naro, A. J. and M. M. P. Scherre (2007). Origens do
Português Brasileiro. São Paulo: Parábola.
Naro, A. J. and M. M. P. Scherre (2013).
Remodeling the age variable: number concord
in Brazilian Portuguese. Language Variation and
Change, 25 (1), pp. 1–15.
Nascimento, M. F. B. do, M. L. G. Marques, and
M. L. S. da Cruz (1987). Português Fundamental:
Volume Segundo. Métodos e Documentos: Tomo
Primeiro. Inquérito de Frequência. Libon:
Instituto Nacional de Investigação Científica.
Centro de Lingüística da Universidade de
Lisboa.
Omena, N. P. de (1986). A referência à primeira
pessoa do plural. In A. J. Naro et al. (eds.),
Relatório Final de Pesquisa: Projeto Subsídios do
Projeto Censo à Educação, vol II. Rio de Janeiro:
UFRJ, pp. 286–319.
544  Maria Marta Pereira Scherre and Maria Eugênia Lammoglia Duarte
Omena, N. P. de (2003). A referência à primeira
pessoa do plural: variação ou mudança?
In: M. C. Paiva and M. E. L. Duarte (eds.),
Mudança Linguística em Tempo Real. Rio de
Janeiro: ContraCapa, pp. 63–80.
Paiva, M. C. and M. E. L. Duarte (eds.) (2003).
Mudança Linguística em Tempo Real. Rio de
Janeiro: ContraCapa.
Raposo, E. B. P. (2013). Pronomes pessoais. In E.
B. P. Raposo, M. F. B. do Nascimento, M. A. C.
da Mota, L. Seguro, and A. Mendes (eds.),
Gramática do Português, vol I. Coimbra:
Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian, pp. 883–920.
Rubio, C. F. (2012). Padrões de concordância
verbal e de alternância pronominal no
português brasileiro e europeu: estudo
sociolinguístico comparativo. Ph.D.
dissertation, Universidade Estadual Paulista
em São José do Rio Preto.
Scherre, M. M. P. and A. J. Naro (2014).
Sociolinguistic correlates of negative evaluation:
variable concord in Rio de Janeiro. Language
Variation and Change, 26 (3), pp. 331–357.
Scherre, M. M. P., A. J. Naro, S. E. R. Mattos, C. C.
Foeger, and S. de A. Benfica (2014). Concord
without concord: 1st. plural pronoun nós “we”
in Brazilian Portuguese. Paper presented at
New Ways of Analyzing Variation (NWAV) 43.
University of Illinois at Urban‐Champaign and
University of Illinois at Chicago, October
23–26.
Scherre, M. M. P., E. P. Dias, C. Q. Andrade, and
G. F. Martins (2015). Variação dos pronomes
TU e VOCÊ. In M. A. Martins and
J. Abraçado (eds.), Mapeamento
Sociolinguístico do Português Brasileiro. São
Paulo: Contexto, pp. 133–155.
Vianna, J. and C. Lopes (2015). Variação dos
pronomes NÓS e A GENTE. In M. A. Martins
and J. Abraçado (eds.), Mapeamento
Sociolinguístico do Português Brasileiro.
São Paulo: Contexto, 109–131.
Vieira, S. R. and A. Bazenga (2013). Patterns
of third person plural verbal agreement.
Journal of Portuguese Linguistics, 12 (2),
pp. 7–50.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
The advent of studies on the acquisition of Portuguese phonology is closely related to the
field of Clinical Phonology. The evaluation of Brazilian children showing an atypical phono-
logical development started in the early 1980s. Since then, a very productive interdisci-
plinary cooperation has developed between linguists and speech therapists, showing the
relevance of phonology‐based models to improve the accuracy of the diagnosis and the
efficiency of the clinical intervention. The interchanges between the two professional groups
thus triggered the production of research on normally developing children acquiring
Brazilian Portuguese (BP) and European Portuguese (EP). The main purpose was to estab-
lish the natural acquisition patterns, which are crucial for the study of atypical development.
The research on phonological acquisition in BP and in EP followed the theoretical models
in vogue at their time. The studies by Lamprecht (1986) and Yavas and Lamprecht (1988)
were inspired by the principles of rule naturalness and (lack of) abstraction of underlying
structures within the Natural Generative Phonology framework. Matzenauer‐Hernandorena
(1988; 1990) explored the adequacy of the feature theory proposed by Chomsky and Halle
(1968) to account for the setting of segmental contrasts in child development. From the 1990s
on, different nonlinear models were used to describe the phonological acquisition of BP and
EP. Some scholars used Syllable Theory, in some cases associated with the Principles and
Parameters framework, in order to study the acquisition of syllable structure. This was the
case of Freitas (1997) and Mezzomo (2004), who described the acquisition of syllable struc-
ture in normally developing Portuguese and Brazilian children, and of Ramos (1996), who
described the systems of phonologically disordered children. Mota (1996) based her research
on feature organization as modeled in Feature Geometry (Clements and Hume 1995); this
was also the case in Costa (2010) for EP. In the field of Clinical Phonology, Keske‐Soares
(2001) and Lazzarotto‐Volcão (2009) followed the theoretical and methodological pathway
set out by Mota (1996) and Ramos (1996), while Bonilha (2000), among others, used the
Optimality Theory framework to account for the developmental patterns exhibited by both
typically and atypically developing children. Speech produced by children with typical and
atypical phonological profiles was also studied from the perspective of the Articulatory
Phonology framework, as reported in Berti and Albano (2008).
In order to master the phonology of a language, a child must acquire the segment
inventory of the language, the way phonological segments combine to create well‐formed
words, the phonological processes constraining the output forms of underlying sequences
Acquisition of Phonology
Giovana Ferreira‐Gonçalves
and Maria João Freitas1
30
546  Giovana Ferreira‐Gonçalves and Maria João Freitas
and the restrictions on the prosodic shape of words or sequences of words. In this chapter we
focus on the acquisition of segmental and prosodic constituents by Brazilian and Portuguese
children.
2.  Segments and phonological processes
In the history of the research on phonological acquisition, scholars’ attention was first
directed towards the development of the segment inventory (Bernhardt and Stemberger
1998). Segmental development is related to motor skills (the ability to articulate the target
segments accurately) and to cognitive processing (the setting of phonological categories
despite the dynamic nature of speech). In this chapter, we will focus mainly on the latter
issue.
The acquisition of phonological contrasts is normally captured in terms of feature setting.
The vowel/consonant contrast, which may be expressed as [±vocoid], is available from the
onset of phonological development (Jakobson 1941/68; Bernhardt and Stemberger 1998). It
is commonly assumed that vocalic segments become stable by the end of the second year of
life; on the contrary, the consonantal inventory is gradually set during the first 5–6 years of
life in typically developing children. Regarding the acquisition of the vowel inventory,
research on BP showed that /a, i, u/ tend to be acquired before /e, o/; as for /ɛ, ɔ/, these are
described as the last vowels to become stable (Rangel 2002; Bonilha 2004). As for EP, no
studies on the order of acquisition of vowels were systematically performed so far, although
some partial information involving this segment class is already available (see information
below).
As for consonants, the stable appearance of the different sound classes follows a cross‐
linguistic trend. In terms of manner of articulation (MoA), the sonorant / obstruent contrast
([±sonorant]), one of the most robust contrasts in the languages of the world (see Clements
2009), is reported as being early mastered by both Brazilian and Portuguese children
(Matzenauer‐Hernandorena 1990; Mota 1996; Freitas 1997; Lamprecht et al. 2004;
Lazzarotto‐Volcão 2009; Costa 2010; Almeida 2011; Amorim 2014). This implies an early
mastery of oral and nasal stops. The next contrast that is set involves the feature [±contin-
uant] within the class of obstruents ([–sonorant]), giving rise to the regular appearance of
fricatives; finally, the setting of the same contrast in the class of sonorant consonants
occurs, witnessed by the appearance of liquids, normally the last class of segments to
become stable in Portuguese.2
As for place of articulation (PoA), children tend to first
acquire anterior consonants, therefore, [labial] and [coronal, +anterior] PoAs become stable
before non‐anterior ones, such as [coronal, −anterior] and [dorsal] (Matzenauer‐
Hernandorena 1990, Costa 2010, Amorim 2014).
The use of distinctive features to represent the developing of phonological knowledge led
scholars to propose a gradual setting of feature combinations, based on the description of
errors in child production data. These feature combinations allow for the representation of
the interactions between MoA and PoA properties. For instance, not all anterior coronal con-
sonants show an early emergence across manner classes; some studies suggest that this type
of consonants first emerge within the class of stops, as the result of the early setting of
[coronal, +anterior; −sonorant; −continuant]; however, within the class of sonorant conso-
nants, studies have reported the acquisition of posterior PoAs before the anterior ones (/r/
>> /ɾ/; /ʎ/>>/l/). This argues for the relevance of specific feature combinations for the
study of child phonology (Matzenauer‐Herandorena 1999; Lamprecht et al. 2004; Lazzarotto‐
Volcão 2009; Costa 2010; Amorim 2014).
The setting of specific MoA and PoA feature combinations may differ in BP and EP.
Research on fricatives show that alveolars are acquired before palatals in BP but not in EP
Acquisition of Phonology  547
(Lamprecht et al. 2004; Amorim 2014). According to Bernhardt and Stemberger (1998), the
acquisition pattern where /s/ is set before /ʃ/ may not be considered universal; palatal con-
sonants precede alveolar consonants in some acquisition paths. The role of BP and EP target
properties in the children’s different behavior is yet to be explored (Amorim 2014).
Another example showing the importance of feature co‐occurrence comes from the inter-
action between MoA and voicing. In BP, voiced fricatives emerge before voiceless ones
(according to Lamprecht et al. 2004, the order of acquisition in non branching onsets is: /v/
>> /f/ >> /z/ >> /s/ >> /ʒ/ >> /ʃ/); this is not attested for plosives, in which category
[−voice] is mastered before [+voiced] (Lamprecht et al. 2004). As for EP, a general preference
for early voiceless plosives and fricatives over voiced ones was observed (Mendes et al. 2009,
Costa 2010 and Amorim 2014). A comparison between BP and EP shows different tendencies
for the interaction between MoA and [voice], for both plosives and fricatives. Further
research is needed to confirm the patterns identified so far and to understand the reasons
underlying the children’s dissimilar behavior.
Although linguists commonly think of segments as hierarchically organized sets of
­
distinctive features, most professionals dealing with language assessment and language
training often conceive of segments as indivisible phonological units. This led researchers to
publish ordered lists of segments representing the general segmental profile of children in
the process of acquisition. This was done in Lamprecht et al. (2004) for BP, based on data
from about 400 children (see Table 30.1), and in Mendes et al. (2009), based on data from over
700 children (see Table 30.2). The information in the tables relates to segments in simple
onset position; in contexts other than the syllable onset, the same segments may be acquired
at ages different from those mentioned in Tables 30.1 and 30.2 (see Section 3 in this chapter).3
Phonological processes are used by phonologists as generalizations over segments
­
displaying a predictable behavior in specific contexts. The literature on phonological acqui-
sition, however, exhibits two definitions of the concept of phonological process (Kiparsky and
Menn 1977; Fikkert 2007): (1) phonological processes refer to the children’s repair strategies
when processing complex adult targets (velar fronting, stopping, among others); Kiparsky and
Menn (1977) use the term invented rules to name these child‐specific rules, which are to be
gradually abandoned by children in the acquisition process; (2) phonological processes are
generalizations over the output form of segments in the adult grammar, which are to be
acquired on the basis of positive evidence in the input.
The rule concept as defined in (1) is familiar among speech therapists evaluating a child’s
phonological development (see AFI4
for BP and ALPE5
for EP). The question one might raise
Table 30.1  Acquisition of BP segments in simple onset (years.months; data from
Lamprecht et al. 2004).
1.0–1.6 1.6–2.0 2.0–2.6 2.6–3.0 3.0–3.6 3.6–4.0 4.0–4.6
/p, b, t, d,
m, n, N/
/k, g, f, v, z/ /s, ʒ/ /ʃ, l/ /r/ /ʎ/ /ɾ/
Table 30.2  Acquisition of EP segments in simple onset (years.months; data from
Mendes et al. 2009 and Costa 2010).
1.0–1.6 1.6–2.0 2.0–2.6 2.6–3.0 3.0–3.6 3.6–4.0 4.0–4.6
/p, m/ /d,b,n,t/ /k/ /v, f, g/ /ɲ, s, ʃ, r/ /l, ʎ/ /z, ʒ, ɾ/
548  Giovana Ferreira‐Gonçalves and Maria João Freitas
concerning the use of phonological processes as child‐specific rules is how adequate it is as
a tool to achieve an accurate description of the phonological acquisition process. Assuming
that language acquisition is a process aiming at the discovery of the adult system, is it
necessary to assume the existence of child‐specific rules that are subsequently eliminated?
Children generally go from simple to complex structures and the production patterns they
exhibit may be viewed, not as the outcome of transitory child‐specific rules, but as resulting
from the lack of specific adult grammar structures in the child’s system, which will gradually
develop in the course of their linguistic development.
The rule concept as presented in (2) above (phonological processes are generalizations over the
output form of segments in the adult grammar) is the one commonly used among phonologists.
The acquisition of these phonological processes that are part of the target grammar is rarely
investigated. However, the description of how children acquire the allophonic variants asso-
ciated to the target phonological processes provides relevant empirical evidence to discuss
the nature of phonological representations on the route of language development. On the
assumption that allophony shows the activity of phonological features and that allophonic
variants are represented as phonetic outputs of a single phonological unit, the way children
master these variants constitutes an important research area that will reveal the way in which
they gradually store segmental information as part of phonological representations (Fikkert
2007). We will end this section by discussing some of the few studies that have been under-
taken in this area.
The Portuguese vowel system is particularly rich in terms of allophonic and allomorphic
variation, thus entailing the activation of different phonological processes. The stressed
vowel [ɐ] has different phonological sources and exclusively emerges in the following
contexts:
(i)	 as an allophone of /a/ when followed by a nasal consonant (/m, n, ɲ/, as in cama
[ˈkɐmɐ] “bed”);
(ii)	 as an allophone of /e/ when followed by a palatal segment (/ʃ, ʒ, ɲ, ʎ, j/, as in abelha
[ɐˈbɐʎɐ] “bee”).
The different unstressed realizations of this stressed [ɐ] in the two contexts are used as argu-
ments to propose different phonological forms for the vowel:
(i)	 [ɐ] is the unstressed output form of the vowel in the nasal context (caminha [kɐˈmiɲɐ]
“bed” diminutive);
(ii)	 [ɨ] is the untressed output form of the vowel in the palatal context (abelhinha [ɐbɨˈʎiɲɐ]
“bee” diminutive).
EP unstressed vowel reduction yields [ɐ] as the output form of /a/ (mala [ˈmalɐ] “bag”;
malinha [mɐˈliɲɐ] “bag” diminutive) while [ɨ] is the output form of /e/ (mesa [mézɐ] “table”;
mesinha [mɨzíɲɐ] “table” diminutive6
). Based on the /e/ ←[ɨ] and /a/ ←[ɐ] relationships in the
vowel reduction process in EP, it is assumed that unstressed [ɐ], in the nasal context, is the
output form of /a/ and that the unstressed [ɨ], in the palatal context, is the output form of
/e/ (Mateus and Andrade, 2000).
Fikkert and Freitas (2006) examined data from seven Portuguese children aged 0.11 to 3.7
in order to explore the production of lexical items exhibiting the structures just mentioned.
The results showed that, when faced with stressed [ɐ], Portuguese children are able to distin-
guish the different phonological sources of the vowel: in the nasal context mostly dorsal
variants were attested, while, in the palatal context, both dorsal and coronal variants
appeared (Table 30.3).
Acquisition of Phonology  549
Variants in the nasal context are consistent with the dorsal nature of the phonological
vowel /a/. However, in 44 percent of the cases, variants in the palatal context mirror the
coronal nature of the phonological vowel /e/. The data showed that the /a/ → [ɐ] raising
process was mastered before the /e/ → [ɐ] process, which involves a change of both aperture
and V‐place features. The children’s behavior was interpreted as the proof of early sensi-
tivity to allophonic and allomorphic variation in the target system, showing the relevance of
studying the acquisition of target phonological processes for our understanding of how
­
children gradually store phonological information in the lexicon.
Another example of the acquisition of phonological processes relates to the use of [ɨ] in EP
(Freitas 2004). This vowel may be the result of a neutralization process in unstressed sylla-
bles involving /e, ɛ/, thus affecting aperture as well as V‐place features (mesa [ˈmezɐ] “table”
and mesinha [mɨˈziɲɐ] “table” diminutive; terra [ˈtɛrɐ] “earth” and terreno [tɨˈrenu] “land”).
The vowel [ɨ] is also used as a prosodic filler in EP, in cases where segments in unlicensed
syllable positions are rescued by epenthesis (pneu [pˈnew]/[pɨˈnew] “tyre”; mar [ˈmaɾ]/
[ˈmaɾɨ] “sea”) (Mateus and d’Andrade 2000). Again, the data showed that children are able
to discriminate between the product of neutralization and epenthesis, despite the similar
phonetic shape of the vowel [ɨ] in both contexts:
(i)	 the target neutralized [ɨ] showed different phonetic forms in child data, [ɨ] and [i] being
the preferred variants; the vowel was not available at the onset of speech;
(ii)	 the prosodic filler [ɨ] was available at the onset of speech and consistently surfaced with the target
format; in the developmental process, it was often used to match the available syllable or word
shapes in the child’s system: at the left edge of words, in early productions (pé [ɨˈpɛ] “foot” Inês:
1.5.11; dá [ɨˈda] “give (me)” Inês: 1.4.9); in the acquisition of sC clusters (estrela [ɨʃ:ˈtɛlɐ] “star”
Marta:1.8.18); at the right edge of words with final liquid (flor [ˈʃowɨ] “flower” Marta: 1.2.0); in
the acquisition of branching onsets (três [tɨˈɾeʃ] “three” Laura: 2.2.30).
These facts showed that children may be sensitive early to the different phonological sources
of similar phonetic segments.
The vowel inventory in unstressed position clearly distinguishes BP and EP. In the case of
EP, the acquisition of /a/ → [ɐ] and /ɛ, e/ → [ɨ] in unstressed position was observed in
Freitas (2007). The results showed that /a/ → [ɐ] is acquired before /ɛ, e/ → [ɨ]. This outcome
was interpreted as an effect of feature activity: the former process only affects aperture fea-
tures, while the latter involves both aperture and V‐place features. Moreover, and consid-
ering the morphological distribution of the two vowels, the class markers [ɨ] and [ɐ] were
acquired before their lexical counterparts in the stem; this was interpreted as the result of the
phonology–morphology interface, which may bootstrap the acquisition of specific structures
in EP (Freitas, Miguel, and Faria 2001).
Table 30.3  Production data for target stressed [ɐ] (Fikkert and Freitas 2006).
Processes Production data
Dorsal Coronal
V+nasal consonant context 99%
(88% [ɐ]; 11% [a])
1%
([e])
V+palatal segment context 56%
(55% [ɐ]; 1% [a])
44%
(26% [e]; 17% [ɛ]; 1% [i])
550  Giovana Ferreira‐Gonçalves and Maria João Freitas
3. Syllables
Prosodic constituency is assumed to play a crucial role both in phonological processing and
in language development. Under this perspective, research on bootstrapping from speech to
grammar in early developmental stages became popular since the late eighties. The syllable
was the first prosodic structure to be described in the studies on the acquisition of Portuguese
phonology. Research based on both longitudinal and cross‐sectional data revealed important
information on the acquisition of syllable patterns in Portuguese.
The results available so far show that Portuguese and Brazilian children start with both
CV and V patterns (Freitas 1997 for EP; Scarpa 1999 for BP), despite the claims made by
Jakobson (1941/68) and followers, according to which the universal CV pattern is the only
template available at the onset of speech, with the aim of establishing a relation between
typological markedness and the order of acquisition. This is different for languages such as
Dutch or English (Fikkert 1994), where only CV is possible at the onset of speech. The prop-
erties of the target languages are certainly underlying the different behaviours exhibited by
the children observed so far, although no consistent explanation accounting for this cross‐
linguistic asymmetry is available in the literature. The presence of the V pattern at the onset
of speech is also attested in the frequent production of a word‐initial vowel (/dá/ [ɐˈda]/[ˈda]
“give (me)” Inês: 1.1), interpreted either as a prosodic filler or as a proto‐morpheme (Scarpa
1999; Freitas 1997).
After an initial state where only CV and V are possible, Portuguese and Brazilian
­
children display a different behaviour. Portuguese children develop the (C)VC pattern;
however, at this second stage, only coda fricatives are licensed. Subsequently, Portuguese
child speech shows liquids in syllable‐final position (Freitas 1997). Correia (2004) and
Amorim (2014) found the same order of acquisition: (C)VCfricative
>> (C)VCliquid
. The setting
of syllable‐final liquids occurs by the time branching nuclei (falling diphthongs) become
stable. Until that moment, children are able to produce both V and VG, although
the two structures may alternate for a single target, vowel or diphthong, showing that the
structure is not yet mastered (/ʃɐˈpɛw/ [ʃɐˈpe] “hat” Inês: 1.7; /ˈladu/ [ˈajdu] “side” Inês:
1.10; /dinɔˈsawɾu/ [dinɔˈsaɾ] “dinosaur” Pedro: 3.7). A similar behavior was attested for
Dutch concerning the short / long vowel contrast and the emergence of syllable‐final liq-
uids (Fikkert 1994). Following Fikkert’s proposal, Freitas (1997) proposed that both VG
and VCliquid
structures were processed as branching nuclei, which would account for the
late mastery of syllable‐final liquids.
As for BP, for the second stage of syllable development two different analyses were pro-
posed: the early emergence of [(C)VG] structures were interpreted by different scholars as
either the setting of /(C)VV/ or as the setting of /(C)VC/. Bonilha (2000) claims that this
second stage corresponds with the mastery of the /(C)VV/ pattern, assuming that the first
glides to emerge are represented in a complex nucleus (as is claimed for the adult grammar
by scholars like Câmara Jr. 1977). Just after this stage the [CVC] structure would emerge.
However, Mezzomo (2004) claims that the glide in early VG structures is processed as a coda,
in agreement with adult grammar analyses such as proposed by Collischonn (1997). In this
analysis, there are no branching nuclei in the Brazilian Portuguese phonological system.
As for branching onsets, it has been reported that this is the last complex structure to
develop in Portuguese and Brazilian children (Freitas 1997; Lamprecht et al. 2004). However,
recent data from Mendes et al. (2009) and Amorim (2014) showed that Portuguese children
may acquire CCV syllables before CVClateral
ones, although no explanation for these diver-
gent findings was yet proposed. One crucial difference between BP and EP is the use of
vowel epenthesis by Portuguese children (cobra [‘kɔbɨɾɐ] “snake” Pedro: 3.5) before the
setting of CCV, which is not reported for Brazilian children.
Acquisition of Phonology  551
To sum up, the research results discussed above lead to the identification of the following
order(s) of acquisition in EP: CV/V >> CVCfricative
>> CVG/CVCliquid
>> CCV (CVClateral
).
(See Table 30.4.)
As for BP, the following order of acquisition was found (Lamprecht et al. 2004): CV / V >>
CVG >> CVClateral liquid
>> CVCnasal
7
>> CVCfricative
>> CVCnon lateral liquid
>> CCV. (See Table 30.5.)
As for the acquisition of the more complex syllable structures of BP, in which the rhyme
contains three contrastive positions, such as CVVC as in, for example, seus [ˈsews] “yours,”
a study conducted by Bonilha (2000), based on data from 86 monolingual children between
age 1.0 and 2.5, found that only 28 out of the 48 possible /CVVC/ targets were produced
accurately as [CVGC] (58.3 percent) The remaining productions showed 30 percent instances
of [CVG] or [CVC]. Considering the fact that children had already acquired complex nuclei
and codas, the production of target /CVVC/ was to be expected. The late acquisition of this
type of structure was also found in other studies, as in Fikkert and Freitas (1998) for Dutch
and EP and for English by Bernhardt and Stemberger (1998). This result shows that the
­
complexity of the rhyme is not mastered early, as suggested by Fikkert (1994).
An interesting fact about the developmental syllable patterns concerns the interaction
between complex syllable constituents and their preference for specific segments or segment
sequences.
In the acquisition of (C)VG, different developmental stages can be distinguished relating
to the sonority difference between the vocoids that constitute falling diphthongs, as well as
their degree of homorganicity (Bonilha 2000). The acquisition of tautosyllabic VG sequences
appears to start with /aw/, of which both the composing vocoids share the same dorsal
PoA: the production of [aw] (as in auau [awaw] “dog”) goes beyond 80 percent in the early
age groups, while high production rates are sustained in all age groups. Soon after, the acqui-
sition of [aj] (papai [papaj] “daddy”) takes place. In this case, the low vowel and the glide
have different PoAs. What both sequences have in common is the relatively sharp sonority
contrast between nucleus and margin. It thus appears that children first acquire diphthongs
of which the low vowel and the glide share their PoA, as in [aw]. In a later stage, children
learn to assign different PoA features to VG sequences, as in [aj]. Diphthongs exhibiting mid
or high vowels are acquired at later stages of acquisition in BP: seu [sew] “your”; rei [xej]
“king”; boi [boj] “ox.”fui [fuj] “(I) went.”
Table 30.4  Order of acquisition for syllable structure in EP.
Stage 1 Non‐branching onsets + non‐branching rhymes: CV/V
Stage 2 Branching rhymes: (C)VCfricative
Stage 3 Branching nuclei: (C)VG/(C)VCliquid
Branching onsets: CCV
Stage 4 Branching onsets: CCV Branching nuclei: (C)VCliquid
a
a
 The relationship between this path and the setting of VG structures was not studied.
Table 30.5  Order of acquisition for syllable structure in BP.
Stage 1 Non‐branching onsets + non‐branching rhymes: CV/V
Stage 2 Branching nucleus: (C)VG
Stage 3 Branching rhymes: (C)VClateral liquid
Stage 4 Branching rhymes: (C)VCnasal
Stage 5 Branching rhymes: (C)VCfricative
Stage 6 Branching rhymes: (C)VCnon‐lateral liquid
Stage 7 Branching onsets: CCV
552  Giovana Ferreira‐Gonçalves and Maria João Freitas
As will be shown below, the interaction between syllables and segments in phonological
development provides important information both for assessment and intervention in a
clinical context and for language training in educational settings: success rates for the pro-
duction of a specific segment should not be calculated exclusively on the basis of its global
accuracy; a more adequate evaluation takes into account the child’s performance of a given
target segment in a specific syllable position.
Not all segments are possible in all syllable positions: for example, in Portuguese, the seg-
ments that may appear in the coda (/s, l, ɾ, (n)8
/) constitute a small subset of the segments
occurring in the syllable onset. The liquids /l, ɾ/ may occur in three syllable positions: in a
non‐branching onset (amarelo “yellow”), as the second consonant in a branching onset (prato
“dish,” flor “flower”) and in the syllable coda9
(mar “sea”; mel “honey”). The fact that a given
segment shows a limited distribution in child speech may be directly linked to the degree in
which syllable complexity is part of the child’s phonological system. In the examples below,
the child accurately produces [l] in onset position; its absence in the branching onset and in
the coda is due, not to problems with processing the alveolar lateral, but to the fact that
branching onsets and codas are not yet available (See Table 30.6).
Lamprecht (1986) and Miranda (1996) show for BP that the position of a segment in the
syllable is crucial for the evaluation of the child’s ability to produce that segment. From an
analysis of cross‐sectional data from 110 children aged between 2.0 and 3.9, Miranda (1996)
was able to show that the position of /ɾ/ within the syllable and the word were the most
important factors that accounted for its acquisition. According to the author, the rhotic is
first acquired in coda position, then as a simple onset and finally as part of a branching
onset. The early acquisition of this consonant in word‐final codas was interpreted as the
result of the phonetic salience of segments in that position. The salience of word‐final /l, ɾ/
was also attested for EP (Freitas 1997; Correia 2004), where these segments appear to be
processed early: (i) they tend to emerge by the time /l, ɾ/ are available as simple onsets and
(ii) their production consistently triggers vowel epenthesis (Marta: colar [kɐˈlalɐ] “necklace”
(1.5); urso [ˈusu] “bear” (2.2)
Another example showing that segments may emerge gradually depending on aspects
other than segmental information relates to coda fricatives in EP, which also show a word‐
edge effect: these consonants first emerge in the coda of word‐final syllables (mostly
unstressed, due to the language’s preference for the trochaic pattern). This behaviour is
unexpected, since word‐final unstressed syllables are considered acoustically non‐salient in
EP. The examples in Table 30.7 were taken from the child Inês at 1.9/1.10.
Table 30.6  Syllable–segments interaction (EP data from Luís).
non‐branching onset amarelo [mɐˈɾɛw] “yellow” 1.9
coda barco [ˈbaku] “boat” 1.9
branching onset frente [ˈfẽtɨ] “front” 1.11
Table 30.7  Data on the emergence of Coda fricatives.
stressed/word‐medial/lexical festa “party” [ˈtɛtɐ] 1.9
✓ stressed/word‐final/morphological meus “mine” [ˈmewʃ] 1.9
stressed/word‐final/lexical nariz “nose” [ɐˈgiɐ] 1.9
unstressed/word‐medial/lexical buscar “to get” [βuˈka] 1.10
✓ unstressed/word‐final/morphological bolos “cakes” [ˈboloʃ] 1.9
unstressed/word‐final/lexical lápis “pencil” [ˈpatu] 1.9
Acquisition of Phonology  553
The early emergence of word‐final coda fricatives in EP was interpreted in Freitas et al.
(2001) as due to the fact that this structure often encodes plural marking in nouns. Lamprecht
et al. (2004) also report that word‐final coda fricatives emerge before word‐medial ones in BP.
Mezzomo et al. (2010) specifically study word‐final fricatives; they observe that word‐final
lexical fricatives are acquired before morphological ones in nouns. The asymmetry attested
for nouns is consistent with the different distribution of the plural morpheme in the target
language: Portuguese children produce word‐final morphological fricatives in nouns
because number agreement in EP requires the presence of the plural morpheme in both the
determiner and the head of the nominal phrase; Brazilian children, on the contrary, produce
the number feature overtly only in the determiner, not in the noun, matching the adults’
behavior in BP.
Although morphological factors may stimulate the acquisition of segments, as shown in the
case of coda fricatives (Freitas et al. 2001) and class markers (Freitas 2007) in EP, they may
hinder it in other contexts. The irregular plural forms of words with word‐final nasal diph-
thongs (cão/cães “dog(s),” limão/limões “lemon(s),” mão/mãos “hand(s)”) and of words with
word‐final laterals (animal/animais “animal(s)”) showed success rates above 50 percent only at
age 5.0, despite the early acquisition of the EP plural marker, which is normally ­
mastered
before 2.0 (Ramalho and Freitas 2012; Freitas and Afonso (in press)). These opposite tendencies
call for further investigation on the effect of the phonology/morphology interface in language
acquisition, which is not systematically explored in the literature on language development.
4. Stress
Over the past three decades, the prosodic unit that has received most attention from acquisi-
tion researchers in Brazil has been the syllable. There have been specific studies focusing on
the syllable and its constituents in normal acquisition as well as in clinical studies, besides
those, already discussed in Section 3, in which segmental acquisition was studied in relation
with syllable structure.
Much less attention has been given to another prosodic entity, the foot as a domain for
stress. There are still few studies that deal with the acquisition of this prosodic unit. In Brazil,
the most important contributions to this area of acquisition research are Santos (2001, 2007),
Bonilha (2004), Baia (2008), and Ferreira‐Gonçalves and Brum‐de‐Paula (2011). For European
Portuguese stress, the main reference is Correia (2009). These authors used different theoret-
ical models, from the Principles and Parameters model (Santos 2001) and Metrical Phonology
(Baia 2008; Correia 2009) to Optimality Theory (Bonilha 2004). In addition to searching for
general trends in the acquisition of primary stress in Portuguese, these studies try to find
arguments allowing to evaluate the proposals put forward to explain the stress patterns of
the adult grammar, such as Bisol (1992), Pereira (1999), Wetzels (2006), and Lee (2007).
For Bisol (1992), Portuguese stress is rhythmic, assigned to nouns and verbs by way of a
single rule. The stress foot is defined as a binary constituent, left‐headed, and sensitive to
syllable weight in non‐verbs, in which category the rule applies cyclically. Non‐verbs with a
final light syllable, e.g. vidro “glass,” sala “room,” etc. receive stress on the penultimate
­
syllable, while words of this class with a final heavy syllable receive final stress, e.g. pomar
“orchard,” valor “value,” etc. To account for irregular nouns like úti<l> “useful” and fósfo<ro>
“match,” the author marks the final consonant and final syllable as extrametrical, as indi-
cated with the angled brackets. Words with stress on the final open syllable, such as café
“coffee,” jacaré “cayman,” etc. are lexicalized with an abstract morpheme‐final consonant
(catalexis). In verbs, the stress rule applies non‐cyclically at the word‐level. The final syllable
of the 1/2pl forms of the indicative and subjunctive imperfect as well as all final consonants
that function as suffixes are made extrametrical, such as in gostáva<mos> and cantásse<mos>.
554  Giovana Ferreira‐Gonçalves and Maria João Freitas
Pereira (1999) considers that, in Portuguese, stress is morphological in nature, both in
nouns and verbs. The domain within which the stress rule applies is the root for non‐verbs
and the lexical word for verbs. In non‐verbs an iambic foot is constructed, originating from
the placement of stress on the last vowel of the root, which yields surface stress on the pen-
ultimate syllable in words with a class marker, as in punho “fist,” but on the last syllable in
athematic words, like café “coffee” or pomar “orchard.” In verbs, the stress rule creates syl-
labic trochees. Unstressed inflectional morphemes are irrelevant for the process of stress
distribution. The author takes the position that syllable weight is completely irrelevant for
stress in EP, also because there is no independent evidence for its function in other areas of
the phonology of Portuguese.
Wetzels (2006) presents a proposal closer to that of Bisol (op.cit.) by taking the position
that stress in non‐verbs, which applies at the word level, is weight‐sensitive. The unmarked
stress pattern, which emerges for example in the creation of new words, such as acronyms,
is penultimate when the final syllable is light, but final in words ending in a heavy syllable.
According to this author, syllable weight in Portuguese is not only relevant for the distribu-
tion of main stress, but also conditions segmental rules, such as the rule that neutralizes the
contrast between upper and lower mid vowels in words with a final heavy syllable (pr[ɔ̃]ton
“proton,” d[ɔ̃]lar “dollar”). The lack of proparoxytonic words with a heavy penultimate
­syllable (aberto, *aberto “open”) and the recurrent emergence of final stress in newly created
words with a final heavy syllable are good arguments in favor of syllable weight as a rele-
vant concept in Portuguese phonology. In Wetzels’ proposal, antepenultimate stress, stress
on a word‐final light syllables and penultimate stress in words with a final heavy syllable
is lexicalized. Verb stress is distributed on the basis of the tense categories, “present,” “past,”
and “future.”
Lee (2007) proposes a unified analysis of Portuguese stress for nouns and verbs. In his
analysis, framed in Optimality Theory, stress patterns emerge from the interaction between
prosodic and morphological constraints. Importantly, morphological constraints—such as
Rooting, Paradigm Uniformity and Align10
—dominate metrical constraints in the constraint
hierarchy proposed, which fact highlights the key role of morphology in the stress system of
Portuguese. The domains for foot formation are the derivational root for non‐verbs and the
lexical word for verbs. Consequently, it is the morphology that determines whether the out-
puts that are selected as optimal are iambs or trochees, because stress falls on the last syllable
of the stem as in ja(caré) “cayman,” with the formation of an iamb, but in bo(níto) “pretty,”
with the formation of a trochee. For heavy paroxytones and proparoxytones, the stress is
considered lexical. According to the author, an important fact supporting the idea that the
Portuguese stress rules are morphologically conditioned is its distinctiveness, as shown by
the words sábia “wise‐fem.,” sabía “knew‐3sg,” sabiá “bird species.”
The first more comprehensive study of the acquisition of primary stress in Portuguese
was done by Santos (2001). Based on longitudinal data of two children between 1.0 and 3.0
years, the author developed her analysis within the theory of Principles and Parameters.
Santos observed that children show no errors in the production of primary stress from an
early age. She emphasizes, however, that the stress prominence heard and reproduced by the
child refers actually to the stress of the phonological phrase, not of the word. In her attempt
to determine when the child starts making use of the primary stress algorithm and to eval-
uate the different theoretical proposals, she concludes that Portuguese is not sensitive to
weight, in agreement with the proposal of Lee (1994), because the subjects never presented
any proof for syllable weight as a relevant parameter in the acquisition of stress. As for the
role of extrametricality, she points out that the data neither corroborate nor contradict the
proposals by Bisol (1992) and Lee (1994).
In later work, Santos (2007) argues, based on findings from two children from 1.3 to 3.6,
that the initial and recurrent iambic productions already bear witness to the mastery of a
Acquisition of Phonology  555
specific stress pattern. Consequently, according to the author, the research results again point
to the correctness of the proposals presented by Lee (1994) and Pereira (1999) for the
Portuguese adult stress system. Three arguments are advanced to support this conclusion:
(i) the iambic pattern is maintained even when the child produces the final heavy syllable as
a light syllable (balão as [ba.ˈa]”balloon”), (ii) the recurrence of iambs in lexical items created
by the children, (iii) the fact that repair strategies produce iambic outputs.
In this manner, the difficulties in producing trochees are explained by the interaction with
morphology, because trochaic nouns, not iambic ones, carry a final word marker. The tro-
chaic words are produced, therefore, when the child is capable of producing morphological
contrasts, like gender.
The acquisition of stress in European Portuguese is studied in Correia (2009). From the
productions of five children, the author observes a preference for early iambic structures, but
argues that this may be a misapprehension of the facts, because the iambic pattern emerges
as the result of reduplication and epenthesis. Portuguese children initially produce monosyl-
lables, with the possible presence of one syllable to the left. According to Correia, for this
type of production, the question of the metrical foot is irrelevant. Only later trochaic and
iambic forms emerge, followed by a stage in which the trochaic pattern prevails and iambs
are truncated to become monosyllables while trisyllables become bisyllabic trochees. The
author equally found in her data evidence for the role of syllable weight and also could not
rule out the interaction of the stress system with morphology. Another interesting fact in
Correia’s study is her use of acoustic analyses of the speech data in order to verify possible
shifts in the location of stress. She found that the phonetic parameters responsible for stress
prominence, i.e., fundamental frequency, intensity, and duration, were not mastered before
age 2.0, showing great variability in the words produced by the children.
Bonilha (2004) found light paroxytones (peixe [ˈpe.ʃi] “fish,” 1.3.10; carro [ˈka.xu] “car,”
1.5.7), light oxytones (aqui [aˈki] “here,” 1.1.22; alô [a.ˈo] “hello,” 1.3.10), and monosyllables
(mãe[ˈmãj]“mother,”1.5.7)inanearlystageofacquisitionindataobtainedfromalongitudinal
study of a Brazilian Portuguese child, aged between 1.1 and 4.6. Of these patterns, the
percentage of iambic productions was highest, especially when considering the productions
resulting from truncation of the final syllable in trisyllabic trochaic targets which are
­
produced in conformity with the target form only around 1.6 (sapato [paˈpa] “shoe,” 1.1.22;
coroa [koˈo] “old woman,” 1.3.10; pescoço [piˈko] “neck,” cavalo [kaˈva] horse—1.5.20). Santos
(2001) also points out the emergence of iambic forms as truncation outputs, especially at
early stages.
Trochaic forms are also produced correctly. Consequently, only heavy paroxytones and
proparoxytones show a late appearance. Bonilha (2004) notes that the errors in the produc-
tion of paroxytones are basically related to segmental emergence. The oxytonic words that
are used are either reduplicated target forms, such as papa “daddy” and cocô “excrement,”
for example, but there are also productions for which the target is not a reduplicated form,
such as aqui “here” and alô “hello.”
Truncation processes systematically preserve the tonic and initial syllables, yielding
iambic sequences. Other patterns also are attested, such as those resulting from the reduction
of heavy disyllables with the preservation of the initial unstressed syllable, [ˈpa] papai
“daddy,” [ˈba] balão “balloon” and [ˈmã] mamãe “mammy,” or the reduction of light ­disyllables
with preservation of the initial tonic syllable, [ˈga] gato “cat.” The reduction of trisyllables
yields two different patterns: (i) preservation of the tonic syllable and the initial atonic
­
syllable, which causes the emergence of iambs, and (ii) the preservation of the tonic syllable
and the initial or final atonic syllable, which may lead to the emergence of trochees. This
pattern, however, is attested at later stages, as from 1.5.
According to Ferreira‐Gonçalves and Brum‐de‐Paula (2011), the early production of oxy-
tonic forms, not necessarily related to reduplication, shows the productivity of the iambic
556  Giovana Ferreira‐Gonçalves and Maria João Freitas
pattern at the start of Brazilian Portuguese acquisition. The words resulting from processes
of trisyllable truncation, with preservation of the initial and stressed syllables would also
confirm that productivity.
As we have mentioned earlier, for Correia (2009) the initial iambic pattern observed in
Portuguese acquisition is only apparent, because it is fundamentally driven by reduplication
processes. Data from Inês, for example, shown in Table 30.8, demonstrate that, up to session 8,
which corresponds to the age of 1.7.2, productions due to the truncation of trisyllabic par-
oxytonic targets either consist of iambic disyllables, with the preservation of the initial and
the tonic syllables or monosyllables. The remaining ws outputs are due to epenthesis. It is
also observed that trochaic outputs become more frequent as from Session 9, confirming the
pattern found in Brazilian Portuguese data, with first trisyllables being truncated as oxytonic
disyllables, and, at a subsequent stage, as paroxytonic disyllables.
Data from Brazilian and Portuguese children seem to confirm the stages proposed in
Bonilha (2004) regarding the acquisition of the different stress patterns, even if the initial ws
pattern can be interpreted as the preservation of the initial and the tonic syllables for iambic
disyllabic targets (Bonilha 2004; Santos 2007), as truncated forms for wsw targets, or as the
result of epenthesis and reduplication (Correia 2009). Bonilha (2004), in an Optimality
Theory analysis, proposes that from 1.1.22 until 1.5.7, when iambs are produced, there is
the pressure of positional faithfulness constraints in the child’s grammar such as MAX I/O
σ1
and MAX I/O σˈ,11
responsible for the preservation of the initial and tonic syllables, and,
as from 1.6, metrical constraints, such as Align (Σ, L, H (Σ), L) and Align (Σ, R, H (Σ), R),12
are being activated by the inputs from the target language. According to the author, from
1.5.20, the preference for trochees as outputs from the truncation process is due to the rank-
ing Align (Σ, L, H (Σ), L) >> Align (Σ, R, H (Σ), R), triggered by the frequency of inputs and
by the demotion of the constraints related to segmental features below the MAX I/O
constraint.
One possible explanation for the initial iambic forms is to interpret these as manifesta-
tions of the regular Portuguese adult stress pattern, as done by Santos (2007) in accordance
with the iambic feet proposed in Lee (1994, 2007) and Pereira (1999). Another possibility,
however, is to associate the early emergence of iambs to the frequency of oxytonic words in
the language (Ferreira‐Goncalves and Brum de Paula 2011).
Table 30.8  Ines—truncation in /WSW/ ([WS], [SW] and
[S]) (Correia 2009: 216).
Acquisition of Phonology  557
As Albano (2001) shows based on a categorization of the words contained in the Aurélio
Mini Dictionary, paroxytonic words outnumber the oxytonic ones in Portuguese: 53 percent
vs. 35 percent. However, the results are different if only the most frequent words are consid-
ered, as shown in Table 30.9.
According to the percentages displayed in Table  30.9, calculated over the Portuguese
pages available in Google, the penultimate and final stress patterns show similar percent-
ages for the categories “common” and “frequent.” One could therefore draw a parallel bet-
ween the emergence of the iambic pattern in the early productions of Portuguese children
and the high frequency of the oxytonic pattern in these categories, especially when taking
into account that these percentages could be even higher in the speech directed to children
during the early acquisition stage.
Another interesting point worth emphasizing are Correia’s (2009) findings regarding the
instability of the acoustic parameters related to the phonetic realization of stress. As was
already mentioned, the author points out that these parameters are stable only in the produc-
tions of children from age 2.0. This raises the question whether it is well‐advised to discuss
the acquisition of Portuguese stress for the period when the relevant acoustic parameters are
unstable. Furthermore, one could raise the question whether the stabilization of the acoustic
parameters around age 2.0 corroborate the role of morphology in stress assignment. It was
observed by Correia, that stress shifts are not found during the earlier acquisition stages,
although data were collected form as early as age (0.11), for example in the case of Inês. In
Joana and Luma, stress shifts are reported after 24 months, a phase in which the production
of different stress patterns are being reported. One possibility, perhaps, is to consider the hy-
pothesis that stress shifts during the acquisition of stress are indicative of the activity of other
aspects of acquisition, for example the acquisition of morphology.
As for the available theoretical descriptions of the Portuguese adult stress system, in con-
formity with the proposals made by Bisol (1992) and Wetzels (2006), the acquisition data are
apt to explain the early acquisition of paroxytones (moraic or syllabic trochees) of heavy
oxytones (moraic trochees) and the late acquisition of proparoxytones and heavy paroxy-
tones (extrametricality or lexical stress). There is, however, no obvious explanation for the
early emergence of oxytones.
If morphology is considered as the basis for stress assignment in non‐verbs, as proposed
by Pereira (1999) and Lee (2007), the early acquisition of final stress on the last vowel of
words that have no class or gender marker, such as ạqui “here,” the early acquisition of heavy
oxytones, such as trạtor “tractor,” as well as of proparoxytones, such as médico “physician,”
and heavy paroxytones, such as fácil “easy” (words in which the last vowel of the stem is
marked as unstressed) seem to corroborate the role of morphology in the placement of stress.
On the other hand, the production of accurate trochaic forms, mainly from age 1.6, casts
Table 30.9  Frequency of use of the different stress patterns of Brazilian
Portuguese (Araújo, et al. 2007).
Stress pattern Relative Frequency
Rare Uncommon Common Frequent
Complete database 27.5% 26% 23.7% 22.6%
Monosyllable 0% 0.2% 4.4% 95.4%
Oxytone 21.1% 27.2% 26.1% 25.6%
Paroxytone 26.3% 26.4% 24.2% 23.1%
Proparoxitone 47.5% 24.8% 16.4% 11.4%
558  Giovana Ferreira‐Gonçalves and Maria João Freitas
doubt on the hypothesis of Santos (2007) according to which the early non‐acquisition of
trochees is due to the role of morphology.
According to Ferreira‐Gonçalves and Brum‐de‐Paula (2011), the early emergence of iambic
forms could possibly be related to the frequency of iambs in the Portuguese lexicon and par-
ticularly in the speech directed to children during acquisition. The stress pattern extracted by
the learner would be rhythm‐based at that moment, undergoing changes with the acquisition
of morphological structures, giving rise to a reanalysis of the foot type for Portuguese.
5. Conclusion
Over the last three decades, starting with studies mainly focusing on atypical phonological
acquisition of the sound patterns of Brazilian Portuguese, several acquisition studies were
undertaken from different theoretical perspectives.
Albeit with an emphasis on generative phonology, research has been conducted from sev-
eral theoretical perspectives, involving the acquisition of segments, syllable structure, and
stress in European and Brazilian Portuguese. The study of these areas as autonomous fields
of research or from the perspective of their interaction have greatly increased our under-
standing of the developmental routes typical for the phonological acquisition of Portuguese.
We have discussed the added value of research directed towards the acquisition of segments
and segmental contrasts simultaneously taking into account the different affiliations of these
segments with specific syllable positions. Whereas the emergence of the different sub‐­
syllabic constituents is correlated with the emergence of the type of segment with which they
can be associated, the activity of concepts such as syllable weight can only be demonstrated
once complex rhymes have developed. We have also tried to relate the emergence and
development of stress pattern in child language with the available proposals that claim to
account for the productive and unproductive stress patterns in adult speech. For the time
being, no strong conclusions can be drawn, especially with regard to the role of morphology
vs. syllable weight in stress attribution. Different interpretations can be given to the findings
that have become available until now.
Researchers are currently using profitably such tools as ultrasound and eye tracking
equipment, which allow for a more detailed investigation of acquisition data. The systematic
use of acoustic analysis of speech data from child language has opened a new line of research
searching for details in children’s productions revealing the presence of covert contrasts
(Scobbie et al. 1997), still poorly described for the speech of Portuguese children. Similarly,
other theories particularly interested in the use and functioning of phonetic detail, such as
the Phonology of Use and Articulatory Phonology, represent promising lines of research that
could provide new insights in the complex process of language acquisition.
Notes
1	We thank Leo Wetzels for his comments on a previous version of this chapter.
2	 Notice that we are referring to general tendencies and not to specific segments. In the case of the
lateral /l/, although liquids in general tend to be the last class to be acquired, its acquisition in
simple onset position in EP and in BP (and also in the word-final coda in BP) may emerge at early
stages and it may even precede the acquisition of some coronal fricatives (Lamprecht et al. 2004 for
BP; Mendes et al. 2009 for EP).
3	 Lamprecht et al. (2004) provide data for word‐initial and word‐initial onset position; we consider, in
Table 30.1, the first age of acquisition in one of the two positions.
Acquisition of Phonology  559
  4	 Yavas, Hernandorena, and Lamprecht (1991), used by Brazilian speech therapists.
  5	 Mendes et al. (2009), used by Portuguese speech therapists.
  6	 According to Mateus and Andrade (2000), although the output form of unstressed /ɛ/ is also [ɨ],
this vowel is not produced as stressed [ɐ] in the focused palatal context. Therefore, /e/ is assumed
to be the phonological vowel for stressed [ɐ] in the palatal context.
  7	 In BP, “contrastive” nasal vowels are assumed to derive from a nasal mora (Wetzels 1997), or from a
consonantal root node. In EP, Mateus and d’Andrade (2000) assume that this nasality is phonologi-
cally represented as a [nasal] autosegment associated with the nucleus node. The different theoretical
approaches correspond with the way in which the child data are interpreted: in BP, the setting of
nasal vowels is interpreted as the result of the mastery of nasal codas; in EP, it is interpreted as the
result of the mastery of the nasal autosegment. In both languages, the structure is early acquired.
  8	 See note to Table 30.4.
  9	 Or branching nucleus, depending on the analysis (cf. Freitas, 1997).
10	 Rooting (Lx = PrWd): lexical words must be stressed; Align (Stem, Right, Head, Right): the right
side of the derivational root coincides with the right side of the head of the foot; Paradigm
Uniformity: stress the thematic vowel in the past tense of verb forms (Lee 2007: 129, 134, 139).
11	 MAX I/O σ1
: segments belonging to the initial syllable must be preserved; MAX I/O σ´: segments
belonging to the stressed syllable must be preserved.
12	 Align (∑, L, H (∑), L): feet are left‐headed;Align (∑, R, H (∑), R): feet are right‐headed (Bonilha 2004: 264).
References
Almeida, L. (2011). Acquisition de la Structure
Syllabique en contexte de Bilinguisme Simultané
Portugais‐Français. Ph.D. dissertation,
Faculdade de Letras da Universidade de
Lisboa.
Albano, E. (2001). Os Gestos e Suas Bordas – Esboço
de Fonologia Acústico‐Articulatória do Português
Brasileiro. Campinas: Mercado de Letras/ALB.
Amorim, C. (2014). Padrão de Aquisição de
Contrastes do PE: a interação entre traços,
segmentos e sílabas. Ph.D. dissertation,
Faculdade de Letras da Universidade do
Porto.
Araújo, G. A., Z. O. Guimarães‐Filho, L. Oliveira,
and M. Viaro (2007). As proparoxítonas e o
sistema acentual do português. In G. A. de
Araújo (ed.), O Acento em Português –
Abordagens Fonológicas. São Paulo: Parábola
Editorial.
Baia, M. F. A. (2008). O modelo prosódico inicial
do português brasileiro: uma questão
metodológica? Masters dissertation, University
of São Paulo.
Bernhardt, B. and J. Stemberger (1998). Handbook
of phonological development from the perspective of
constraint‐based nonlinear phonology. San Diego:
Academic Press.
Berti, L. and E. Albano (2008). Revisiting
phonological disorders: an analysis of
production and perception. Studies in
Language, 44, pp. 22–32.
Bisol, L. (1992). O acento e o pé métrico binário.
Cadernos de Estudos Linguísticos, 23, pp. 83–101.
Bonilha, G. (2000). Aquisição dos Ditongos Orais
Decrescentes: uma Análise à luz da Teoria da
Otimidade. MA thesis, Universidade
Católica de Pelotas.
Bonilha, G. (2004). Aquisição fonológica do
português brasileiro: uma abordagem
conexionista da Teoria da Otimidade. Ph.D.
dissertation, Pontifícia Universidade Católica
do Rio Grande do Sul.
Câmara Jr., M. J. (1977). Estrutura da Língua
Portuguesa. Petrópolis: Vozes.
Chomsky, N. and M. Halle (1968). The Sound
Pattern of English. New York: Harper & Row.
Clements, N. (2009). The role of features in
phonological inventories. In E. Raimy and
C. Cairns (eds.), Contemporary Views on
Architecture and Representations in Phonology.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, pp. 19–68.
Clements, G. and E. Hume (1995). The internal
organization of speech sounds. In J. Goldsmith
(ed.), The Handbook of Phonological Theory.
Cambridge: Blackwell, pp. 245–306.
Collischonn, G. (1997). Análise prosódica da sílaba
em Português. Ph.D. dissertation, Pontifícia
Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul.
Correia, S. (2004). A Aquisição da Rima em
Português Europeu ‐ ditongos e consoantes em
final de sílaba. Masters dissertation, University
of Lisbon.
560  Giovana Ferreira‐Gonçalves and Maria João Freitas
Correia, S. (2009). The acquisition of primary
word stress in European Portuguese. Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Lisbon.
Costa, T. (2010). The acquisition of the consonantal
system in European Portuguese: focus on place and
manner features. Ph.D. dissertation, University
of Lisbon.
Ferreira‐Gonçalves, G. and M. R. Brum‐de‐Paula
(2011). A emergência do padrão acentual do
português: desdobramentos. In G. Ferreira‐
Gonçalves, M. Brum‐de‐Paula, and
M. Keske‐Soares (eds.), Estudos em Aquisição
Fonológica, vol. 2. Santa Maria: Pallotti.
Fikkert, P. (1994). On the acquisition of prosodic
structure. Ph.D. dissertation, University of
Leiden.
Fikkert, P. (2007). Acquiring phonology. In P. de
Lacy (ed.), Handbook of Phonological Theory.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
pp. 537–554.
Fikkert, P. and M. J. Freitas (1998). Acquisition of
syllable structure constraints: evidence from
Dutch and Portuguese. In A. Sorace,
C. Heycock, and R. Shillcock (eds.), Proceedings
of the GALA 1997 Conference on Language
Acquisition. Edinburgh: University of
Edinburgh, pp. 217–222.
Fikkert, P. and M. J. Freitas (2006). Allophony
and allomorphy cue phonological
development: evidence from the European
Portuguese vowel system. Journal of Catalan
Linguistics, 5, pp. 83–108.
Freitas, M. J. (1997). Aquisição da Estrutura
Silábica do Português Europeu. Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Lisbon.
Freitas, M. J. (2004). The vowel [ɨ] in the
acquisition of European Portuguese. In J. van
Kampen and S. Baauw (eds.), Proceedings of
GALA 2003, vol. 1. Utrecht: LOT, pp. 163–174.
Freitas, M. J. (2007). On the effect of (morpho)
phonological complexity in the early
acquisition of unstressed vowels in European
Portuguese. In P. Prieto, J. Mascaró, and
M. Solé (eds.), Segmental and Prosodic Issues in
Romance Phonology. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins, pp. 179–197.
Freitas, M. J., M. Miguel, and I. Faria (2001).
Interaction between prosody and
morphosyntax: plurals within codas in the
acquisition of European Portuguese. In
B. Hoehle and J. Weissenborn (eds.), Approaches
to Bootstrapping. Phonological, Lexical, Syntactic
and Neurological Aspects of Early Language
Acquisition, vol. 2. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins, pp. 45–58.
Freitas, M. J. and C. Afonso (in press). “Os caracoles
são azules? Dados espontâneos e experimentais
sobre a aquisição dos plurais das palavras com
lateral final”. In Ferreira-Gonçalves, G., M.
Brum-de-Paula and M. Keske-Soares (eds)
Estudos em Aquisição Fonológica. Volume IV.
Pelotas: Universidade Federal de Pelotas.
Jackobson, R. (1941/1968). Child Language,
Aphasia and Phonological Universals. The Hague:
Mouton.
Keske‐Soares, M. (2001). Terapia Fonoaudiológica
Fundamentada na Hierarquia Implicacional dos
Traços Distintivos Aplicada em Crianças com
Desvios Fonológicos. Ph.D. dissertation,
Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio
Grande do Sul.
Kiparsky, P. and L. Menn (1977). On the
acquisition of phonology. In J. MacNamara
(ed.) Language Learning and Thought. New York:
Academic Press.
Lamprecht, R. (1986). Os Processos nos Desvios
Fonológicos Evolutivos. MA thesis, Pontifícia
Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul.
Lamprecht, R. R., G. Bonilha, G. Freitas,
C. Matzenauer, C. Mezzomo, C. Oliveira, and
L. Ribas (2004). Aquisição Fonológica do
Português. Perfil de Desenvolvimento e Subsídio
Para Terapia. Porto Alegre: Artmed.
Lazzarotto‐Volcão, C. (2009). Modelo Padrão de
Aquisição de Contrastes: uma Proposta de Avaliação
e Classificação dos Desvios Fonológicos. Ph.D.
dissertation, Universidade Católica de Pelotas.
Lee, S. H. (1994). A regra do acento do português:
outra alternativa. Letras de Hoje, 98, pp. 37–42.
Lee, S. H. (2007). O acento primário no português:
uma análise unificada na teoria da otimalidade.
In G. A. Araújo (ed.), O Acento em Português:
Abordagens Fonológicas. São Paulo: Parábola.
Mateus, M. H. and E. d’Andrade (2000). The
Phonology of Portuguese. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Matzenauer‐Hernandorena, C. (1988). Análise de
Desvios Fonológicos através dos Traços
Distintivos. MA thesis, Pontifícia
Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul.
Matzenauer‐Hernandorena, C. (1990). Aquisição
da Fonologia do Português. Estabelecimento de
Padrões com base em Traços Distintivos. Ph.D.
dissertation, Pontifícia Universidade Católica
do Rio Grande do Sul.
Matzenauer‐Hernandorena, C. (1999). Aquisição
da fonologia e implicações teóricas: um estudo
sobre as soantes palatais. In R. Lamprecht
(ed.), Aquisição da Linguagem. Porto Alegre:
EDIPUCRS.
Acquisition of Phonology  561
Mendes, A., E. Afonso, M. Lousada, and
F. Andrade (2009). Teste Fonético Fonológico –
Avaliação da Linguagem Pré‐Escolar (TFF‐ALPE).
Aveiro: Universidade de Aveiro.
Mezzomo, C. (2004). Sobre a aquisição das codas.
In R. Lamprecht (ed.), Aquisição Fonológica do
Português: Perfil de Desenvolvimento e Subsídios
para a Terapia. Porto Alegre: Artmed, pp.
129–150.
Mezzomo, C. L., H. Mota, R. Dias, and
V. Giacchini (2010). Fatores relevantes para a
aquisição da coda lexical e morfológica no PB.
Revista CEFAC, 12 (3), pp. 412–420.
Miranda, A. (1996). A aquisição do “r”: uma
contribuição à discussão sobre seu status
fonológico. MA thesis, Pontifícia Universidade
Católica do Rio Grande do Sul.
Mota, H. (1996). Aquisição segmental do
Português: um modelo implicacional de
complexidade de traços. PhD. dissertation,
Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio
Grande do Sul.
Pereira, I. (1999). O Acento de Palavra em
Português. Uma Análise Métrica. Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Coimbra.
Ramalho, M. and M. J. Freitas (2012).
Morphophonological complexity in the
acquisition of EP: the case of nominal plural
forms with final nasal diphthongs. In S. Ferré,
P. Prévost, L. Tuller, and R. Zebib (eds.),
Selected Proceedings of the Romance Turn IV
Workshop on the Acquisition of Romance
Languages. Newcastle: Cambridge Scholars.
Ramos, A. (1996). Processos de Estrutura Silábica
em Crianças com Desvios Fonológicos: uma
Abordagem Não‐Linear. Ph.D. dissertation,
Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio
Grande do Sul.
Rangel, G. (2002). Aquisição do Sistema Vocálico
do PB. Ph.D. dissertation, Pontifícia
Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul.
Santos, R. (2001). A aquisição do acento de palavra
no Português Brasileiro. Ph.D. dissertation,
Unicamp.
Santos, R. S. (2007). A Aquisição Prosódica do
Português Brasileiro de 1 a 3 anos: Padrões de
Palavra e Processos de Sândi Externo. Ph.D.
dissertation, University of São Paulo.
Scarpa, E. (1999). Sons preenchedores e
guardadores de lugar: relações entre fatos
sintáticos e prosódicos. In E. Scarpa (ed.),
Estudos em Prosódia. São Paulo: Editora da
Unicamp, pp. 253–284.
Scobbie, J. M., F. Gibbon, W. J. Hardcastle, and
P. Fletcher (1997). Covert contrast and the
acquisition of phonetics and phonology. In
W. Ziegler and K. Deger (eds.), Clinical Phonetics
and Linguistics. London: Whurr, pp. 147–156.
Wetzels, W. L. (1997). The lexical representation
of nasality in Brazilian Portuguese. Probus,
9 (2), pp. 203–232.
Wetzels, W. L. (2006). Primary word stress in
Brazilian Portuguese and the weight
parameter. Journal of Portuguese Linguistics,
5 (2), pp. 9–58.
Yavas, M. and Lamprecht, R. (1988). Processes
and intelligibility in disordered phonology.
Clinical Linguistics and Phonetics, 2 (4), pp.
329–45.
Yavas, M., C. Hernandorena, and R. Lamprecht
(1991). Avaliação Fonológica da Criança. Porto
Alegre: Artes Médicas.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
Acquiring the syntax of a language implies achieving adult performance on the production
and comprehension of at least the following domains: clause structure, movement and refer-
ential dependencies. For these domains, a child must find out the language‐particular aspects
of the language she is acquiring. Most research on the acquisition of syntax based on a
generative background convincingly shows that children are quite precocious in all tasks
regarding the acquisition of syntax.
In this chapter we focus on results on the acquisition of Portuguese, concentrating on
those aspects of the syntax of the language that are not common to other languages. For the
sake of providing a comprehensive state of the art, we focus on the results achieved by the
several studies we report on, and refer the reader to the original works for methodological
issues or for details on the participants.
The chapter is organized as follows: Section 2 addresses results on the acquisition of word
order, clause structure and on the acquisition of the DP. Section  3 reports on findings
regarding the acquisition of movement dependencies. Finally, Section 4 addresses referential
dependencies and the mastery of constructions involving null categories.
2.  Word order, clause structure and the structure
of the DP
Acquiring Portuguese word order involves acquiring V‐to‐I movement. European Portuguese
further has I‐to‐C movement in specific constructions, such as wh‐questions. The analysis of
spontaneous speech data indicates that children master V‐to‐I movement from very early
on. Soares (1998) and Santos (2006), for European Portuguese (EP), and Lopes (2003b, 2009),
for Brazilian Portuguese (BP), argue that children move the verb to I since their earliest
stages of multiword production. A crucial piece of evidence in favor of this claim comes
from Santos’s work on VP ellipsis and Lopes’s (2009) on null objects. It is important to have
in mind that VP‐ellipsis involves V‐to‐I movement in Portuguese (cf. Chapter 16 here). In
answers to yes–no questions, Portuguese has the option of using the verb in a VP‐ellipsis
context instead of the word sim “yes.” Santos (2006) and Lopes (2009) show that one of
Acquisition of Portuguese
Syntax
João Costa and Ruth E. V. Lopes
31
Acquisition of Portuguese Syntax  563
children’s first answers are instances of VP‐ellipsis, as shown in the following examples for
EP and BP, respectively:
(1)  Adult: tu gostas de brincar com caricas?
    you like PREP play with caps
    “Do you like to play with caps?”
Child: (g)o(s)to. (Tomás 1.6.18)
   like[1sg]
   “(Yes,) I do.”
(2) Adult: Tomou remédio também?
   Took medicine too?
    “Did he take some medicine too?”
Child: Tomou (AC 2.1)
   Took
   “(Yes,) he did.”
Further evidence for an early acquisition of V‐to‐I comes from repetition tests run by
Friedmann and Costa (2010b), who show that children are able to perform V‐to‐I whenever
required. This study further confirms previous findings on the literature with evidence for
an early distinction between verb classes: children successfully repeat SV and VS orders with
unaccusative verbs, but fail to repeat VS orders with unergative verbs. (3) presents a sample
of the sentences tested:
(3) a. Unaccusative verbs SV/VS
O balão rebentou. / Rebentou o balão.
the balloon popped / popped the balloon
“The balloon popped.”
b. Unergative verbs SV/VS
O rapaz correu. / Correu o rapaz.
the boy ran / ran the boy
“The boy ran.”
BP does not have the SV/VS order alternation with unergative and transitive verbs but
­
preserves it for unaccusative verbs. Palmiere (2002), analyzing the spontaneous speech of
two children from 2.0 to 4.0, shows that all the utterances with unergative verbs are SV (4),
as expected, but in the case of unaccusatives, in 76 percent of the cases the children prefer a
VS order since the onset (5):
(4) A beéquinha (= bonequinha) anda. (N 2.1.13)
the doll‐little walks
“The little doll walks.”
(5) Caiu a cade(i)rona! (N 2.7.2)
fell the chair‐big
“The big chair fell!”
As for I‐to‐C, available in EP only, Soares (1998, 2003, 2006) show that children fail to fill
in the C position with the verb, uttering wh‐questions of the type in (6):
(6) O que tu tens aqui na mala? (Sandra 2.6.3)
what you have here in the handbag
“What do you have in your handbag?”
564  João Costa and Ruth E. V. Lopes
This asymmetry between an early setting of V‐to‐I and a later mastery of I‐to‐C has been argued
to be an argument for the key role morphology plays as a clue in parameter setting (Costa and
Loureiro 2006). The idea is that when a movement strongly correlates with inflection, the mor-
phology is a strong cue. This is the case in V‐to‐I, but not in I‐to‐C contexts. Actually, as shown
inGonçalves(2004),justasinotherRomancelanguages,thereissoundevidencethatPortuguese
children master agreement morphology from very early on, which accounts for the fact that
other inflection‐related parameters, like the null subject parameter, are set early as well. The
same is shown for Brazilian Portuguese in Lopes (2003b) and Magalhães (2006).
Note that, as in other languages, the evidence available is for an early acquisition of the
functional domain of the clause. Children are able to perform V‐to‐I, as just shown, and there
is robust evidence for the projection of the left‐periphery, as shown by the early availability
of wh‐questions and topic constructions in the case of BP (for EP, Faria et al. 1997, Soares
1998, 2003, 2006; for BP, Grolla 2000).
The same can be argued for the DP. As in other languages, there is some evidence for the
early availability of the D head, which is attested by the emergence of proto‐determiners
(Soares 1998, Faria et al. 1997). These are taken to be prosodic placeholders by Costa and
Freitas (2001), although, as far as BP is concerned, it has been claimed that they are prosodic
filler sounds instead (see Santos, 2001, 2005, a.o.).
Freitas and Miguel (1998) argue that the early emergence of functional structure in the DP
correlates with the prosodic salience of plural codas, arguing for a morphophonological
bootstrapping effect in the DP domain. Interestingly, as argued by Corrêa et al. (2005) and
Castro and Ferrari‐Neto (2007), not only D is available from the onset, but it plays a crucial
role in the acquisition of referentiality. These authors show that, in the identification of
number, children of 18 to 30 months rely on the marking on determiners more than they do
on marking on nouns. This is achieved by comparing children’s interpretation of plurality in
the two varieties of Portuguese. The test consisted of two grammatical and two ungrammat-
ical DPs in the target grammars composed with novel nouns and invented object entities to
which the nouns referred. Children should point to one (singular) or more than one entity
(plural) when prompted with the linguistic stimuli:
(7) a. Mostra [os dabos] pro Dedé.
Show the‐pl dabo‐pl to‐the puppet.
b. Mostra [os dabo]…
Show the‐pl dabo …
(8) a. Mostra [o dabos] …
Show the dabo‐pl …
b. Mostra [o dasbo] …
Show the da‐infix‐bo
The pairs in (7) are grammatical in BP, the difference being that (a) is the standard form and
(b) the non‐standard form; therefore, arguably children are exposed to both. That is not the
case in EP, where only (7a) is found (see Chapter 14, The Structure of DPs, for an overview of
the DP‐internal agreement patterns). The DPs in (8) are ungrammatical in both varieties,
although possible in other languages. In (8a) the plural marking appears in the noun only,
while in (8b) it would be an infix. It is also possible to interpret these DPs as singular in the
language, since there are singular nouns ending in –s or having –s– as a coda in the first
syllable (respectively, pires “saucer” and casca “peel”).
The authors’ overall results show that the Portuguese children recognized the plural
condition in a rate of over 76 percent, for (7a), while the Brazilian ones ranged from 57 percent
for (7a) to 64 percent for (7b) as expected. These results, together with the fact that the condi-
tions in (8) were not significantly interpreted as plurals, indicate that the number features in
Acquisition of Portuguese Syntax  565
D are being computed. However, Brazilian children also accepted the (8a) condition 33 percent
ofthetimesasplural.Thisisratherinterestingwhensuchresultsarecomparedtospontaneous
production data.
Lopes (2006) and Simioni (2007) show that although an “NP‐only stage” is not found in BP, one
in which children would drop determiners where they should be present, plural DPs take a while
to be produced, starting around their second birthday. But the crucial fact is that the grammatical
forms as in (7) are not to be found from the onset. Examining spontaneous production data from
five children, the authors found that they exhibit, during a very brief period of time, a pattern close
to (8a), marking the plural morphology on the noun and not on the determiner:
 (9) a hienas (C. 2.4)
the‐sg hyena‐pl
“the hyenas”
These forms soon co‐occur with the grammatical patterns but will not disappear entirely
from the grammar until past a child’s third birthday.
As far as gender is concerned, no mismatches between the gender features in D and the
noun were found in children’s spontaneous productions in Lopes (2006). In reality, Name
(2002) had already shown that very young children are sensitive to the morphological mark-
ing of gender in the determiner ascribing it to the noun in an agreement fashion.
3.  Acquisition of movement dependencies
As mentioned in the previous section, there is robust evidence for the claim that children
acquiring Portuguese perform movement operations from very early on. As remarked, head
movement is available in children’s earliest production, and the same holds for XPmovement.
Let us consider several examples attested in the literature.
Several studies report that children do not have troubles with A‐movement. Adragão and
Costa (2004) and Costa and Friedmann (2012) argue that children’s SV utterances with dif-
ferent verbal classes provide evidence for DP‐movement from Spec,VP to Spec,TP. The same
is true for BP, except that there is an initial asymmetry observed when unaccusative verbs are
examined: Lexical DPs tend to be found post‐verbally while pronominal ones will always
appear pre‐verbally, as shown in Lopes (1999, 2003a) and Palmiere (2002). Compare example (5),
previously discussed, with (10):
(10) Eu caí no chão. (N 2.8.4)
I fell on‐the floor
“I fell down.”
A central topic of research in the study of the availability of A‐movement is the passive. Sim‐
Sim (1998), Correia (2003), Gabriel (2001) and Estrela (2013) all converge in showing that
children acquiring Portuguese produce and comprehend passives. The usual asymmetries
between short and long passives and between agentive and non‐agentive passives are
reported in Sim‐Sim (1998), for EP, and Rubin (2004) and Lima Jr. (2012), for BP.
Another interesting result comes from Correia’s (2003) work, which reports that chil-
dren’s worst performances are found in SE‐passives of the type in (11), only found in EP.
Crucially, in these passives the DP object is not A‐moved from the object position:
(11) Comeram‐se muitas maçãs.
Ate‐pl se many apples
“Many apples were eaten.”
566  João Costa and Ruth E. V. Lopes
According to these results, thus, just as in other languages, children do not have problems
with A‐movement. The same holds for A‐bar movement, although some asymmetries
internal to A‐bar dependencies are worth mentioning.
It has been known at least since Corrêa (1982) that the usual subject‐object asymmetries
found in the production and comprehension of A‐bar dependencies are found in Portuguese
as well. As in other languages, subject relatives are easier to comprehend and produce than
object relatives (see also Vasconcelos 1991, Costa, Lobo and Silva 2011, for EP, and Perroni,
2001, Lessa de Oliveira 2008, for BP). The fact that subject dependencies are spared in
production and comprehension is the relevant piece of evidence indicating that there is no
problem with A‐bar movement. Children are able to perform it, and have access to the top
layers of the clausal structure. Confirming predictions made by Grillo (2008) and Friedmann,
Belletti, and Rizzi (2009), the data elicited for Portuguese confirm the idea that children’s
difficulties with movement dependencies stem from intervention configurations of the type
depicted in (12):
(12) X…. Y…. ecx
If X and Y share features, Y may act as an intervener for the establishment of the dependency
between X and the empty category relating to it. What counts as an intervener is not fully
established, but some facts are known. First, X and Y have to be lexically restricted, that is
the constituent must contain a noun. There are asymmetries between the comprehension of
headed relatives (13a) and free relatives (13b), and between D‐linked wh‐questions (14a) and
bare wh‐questions (14b):
(13) a. Mostra‐me a menina que a mãe abraça.
Show me the girl that the mother hugs
b. Mostra‐me quem a mãe abraça.
Show me who the mother hugs
(14) a. Que menina é que a mãe abraça?
Which girl is that the mother hugs?
b. Quem é que a mãe abraça?
Who is that the mother hugs
Costa, Grillo, and Lobo (2012) tested the comprehension of free and headed wh‐dependencies,
showing that free object relatives (13b) are comprehended more easily than headed object
relatives (13a). Lessa de Oliveira (2008) also shows that free relatives are produced quite
early as well. These findings confirm Cerejeira’s (2009) observation that children aged
between 3 and 6 have a better comprehension of bare object wh‐question (14b) than they do
for D‐linked object questions (14a). This type of asymmetry signals that it is the intervention
configuration rather than the mere alternation of canonical order that acts as the source of
difficulties for children.
The exact nature of what counts as an intervener remains to be found. In a recent study on
the production and comprehension of relative clauses with a relativized constituent with a
preposition, as in (15), Costa et al. (2014) found that the two XPs in the relevant configuration
may be categorically distinct.
(15) Mostra‐me a menina com que a mãe sonha.
Show me the girl with whom the mother dreams.
Costa et al. (2014) show that children’s comprehension and production of PP relatives is
similar to their performance with object relatives, which indicates that intervention configu-
rations arise even in the absence of total feature similarity.
Acquisition of Portuguese Syntax  567
These findings support the evidence discussed in Vasconcelos (1991) according to which
the presence of a preposition in relative dependencies is a further source of difficulty, but this
does not mean that PP relatives are much different from object relatives. (See also Valente
2008 and Fontes 2008 for further data on the acquisition of PP relatives.)
The picture is slightly different in BP, though. PP relatives, especially pied‐piped ones as
in (15), are extremely rare in production and appear later in development, according to Lessa
de Oliveira (2008). Since relatives with resumptive pronouns as in (16) are also rare, as shown
by Perroni (2001), children resort to the non‐standard (but much more common in BP) option
illustrated in (17), in which the preposition is dropped, a strategy also found in topicalization
structures as in (18) (example from Grolla, 2000):
(16) Eu vô no seu colo, porque lá tem aquela cobrinha que as muler (= mulher) dança nela. (N 3.1)
I go in‐the your lap because there has that snake‐diminutive that the‐pl woman
dance‐sg on‐it.
“I’ll go in your lap because there is that little snake there in which the women dance.”
(17) Mostra pra mim a menina que a mãe sonha.
Show to me the girl that the mother dreams.
(18) Essa boneca eu vou brincar o dia inteiro. (N 3.10)
This doll I go play‐inf the day long
“I’ll play with this doll all day long.”
Research on other types of A‐bar dependencies confirms that A‐bar movement is not
problematic per se, and that intervention configurations are a source of difficulty. Abalada
(2012) found that object topicalization structures are harder to comprehend than canonical
word orders in EP. Lobo, Santos, and Soares (2012) studied the production and comprehen-
sion of different types of clefts in European Portuguese, and found that object clefts are
harder to comprehend than subject clefts.
In BP, children produce subject clefts very early (19), before relative clauses are attested
(see Perroni 2001); on the other hand, object topicalization structures (20), together with the
topicalization of other functions, are also productively produced since a very early age (see
Grolla, 2000):
(19) O papai que jogô(u) fora no lixo aqui. (N 2.6)
The dad that threw away in‐the trash bin here.
“It was dad who threw (something) in the trash bin here.”
(20) Tudo você tem. (N 2.5)
Everything you have
“You have everything.”
There is further evidence for the claim that movement is not the source of the problems
with A‐bar dependencies for young children: similar intervention effects are found in the
absence of movement as well, provided the same intervention configuration obtains. This has
been reported for the comprehension of coordinations with a gap of the type illustrated in (21)
(Friedmann and Costa 2010a), and for the comprehension of prepositional infinitival con-
structions of the type illustrated in (22) (Costa, Fernandes, Vaz, and Grillo, forthcoming):
(21) O João viu o Pedro e ___ sorriu.
The João saw the Pedro and ___ smiled.
“João saw Pedro and smiled.”
568  João Costa and Ruth E. V. Lopes
(22) O João viu o filho do médico a sorrir.
The João saw the son of the doctor P smile‐inf
“João saw the doctor’s son smiling.”
The comparison between the different types of configuration led Costa and Lobo (2014) to
investigate the relevance of c‐command for intervention and they found that intervention
effects crucially involve a c‐commanding intervener.
In both studies cited, it is shown that, even in the absence of movement, the identi­
fication
of the subject of the second coordinate in (21) or the antecedent of the subject of the infinitival
clause in (22) is affected by the intervening DP. Independent evidence for the intervention
effect comes from Freire (2013), who tested the comprehension of perception verbs with
infinitival constructions in 4‐ to 9‐year‐old children. Even the youngest groups performed at
ceiling in sentences such as (23) where they did not  have to compute the first subject since
its features and that of the object were non‐coincident:
(23) Você viu o Pedro pintar a casa de verde?
You saw the Pedro paint‐inf the house of green
“Did you see Pedro paint the house green?”
Interestingly, it may be shown that some of these effects are found in adults as well, which
indicates that the difficulties with object dependencies in the presence of intervention config-
urations are not subject to maturation or to some kind of language growth. Instead, it is very
likely that the computation of these configurations is costly, and the differences between
adult and children have to do with the ease to deal with costly computations.
Another argument showing that movement is not necessarily difficult for children comes from
the analysis of the comprehension of scrambling in EP. In Costa and Szendroi (2006), the compre-
hension of the interpretative effects associated with scrambling in ditransitive constructions is
compared with the comprehension of the effects of stress shift. The relevant piece of data comes
from the readings children associate with the focus adverb só “only.” Although, as Santos
(2006/2009) points out, there are issues children must deal with in order to achieve adult
performance with focus adverbs, Costa and Szendroi show that there are no deviances in the com-
prehension of the interpretation of scrambling. In other words, children do not have troubles
understanding the effects of scrambling. This is an interesting result, since it indicates that children
experience no trouble in the interpretation of certain discourse‐related movement operations.
Clear cases of development can, however, be found in movement dependencies. Vaz
(2012) and Lobo and Vaz (2012) studied the acquisition of exhaustivity in quantificational
structures and in the comprehension of multiple wh‐questions in EP. In this language, an
answer to a multiple wh‐question is necessarily exhaustive, unlike what happens to single
wh‐questions. Vaz (2012) and Lobo and Vaz (2012) show that until the age of 5, children fail
to understand this exhaustivity requirement. This finding attests the presence of certain
features in specific structures that may undergo development.
Altogether, these results on the acquisition of movement in Portuguese point into one
direction: movement is acquired very early. As a matter of fact, even when given an option,
children prefer to move elements rather than not to move them. BPis an optional wh‐movement
language, having both moved and in‐situ wh‐constructions. Grolla (2000, 2005) shows that no
wh in‐situ is attested in children’s production until almost their fourth birthday (see (25)):
(24) a. Que é isso aqui? (N 2.2)
“What is this here?”
b. Por que você tá fazendu assim? (N 2.6)
Why you are doing like‐that
“Why are you doing (something) like that?”
Acquisition of Portuguese Syntax  569
(25) a. P(r)á í(r) aonde? (N 3.9)
Prep go‐inf where?
“Where (will we) have to go?”
b. Eu quero brincar com que? (N 3.11)
I want play‐inf with what
“What do I want to play with?”
Comparison with populations with language impairments confirm the robustness of these
findings, since generalized difficulties with movement can be found with specific popula-
tions (see Ferreira 2008, José 2011, Corrêa and Augusto 2011a, 2011b for Specific Language
Impairment; Cerdeira 2006, Lima et al. 2009 for agrammatism; Friedmann and Costa 2011 for
hearing impairment; and Rubin, 2004 for Down Syndrome, a.o.).
4.  Acquisition of referential dependencies
The acquisition of pronouns and referential dependencies has received major attention over
the last three decades. This is an excellent area of comparison between Portuguese and other
languages, and between varieties of Portuguese, since these languages differ in curious ways
with respect to the behavior of pronominal forms. Here, we focus on the results available in
the literature regarding (1) the production of pronouns and clitic placement, (2) the interpre-
tation of pronouns, and (3) the comprehension of null categories.
4.1.  The production of pronouns
Let us start with the production of pronouns. It is known that, in many languages, children
omit clitics in their early productions. This has been tested for many clitic languages, and
most findings converge in the observation that clitic omission tends to affect 3rd person
accusative clitics. Costa and Lobo (2006) tested clitic production in European Portuguese, in
particular trying to differentiate (target deviant) omission from target null objects of the type
illustrated in (26):
(26) A: E o meu carro?
And the my car
“What about my car?”
B: Deixei __ na garagem.
Left in the garage
“I left it in the garage.”
Null objects are optional in contexts like in (26); hence, omission in such contexts may look
like adult performance. For this reason, Costa and Lobo tried to elicit pronouns in strong
islands—a context in which null objects are ruled out in EP, as shown in Raposo (1986). They
found that children omit pronouns across the board—both in root contexts and in islands.
This result could still be interpreted in two ways: omission of accusative clitics in more
than one context or a generalization of the null object construction. In order to decide between
these two options, Costa and Lobo (2007), Silva (2008) and Costa, Lobo, and Silva (2009, 2012)
tried to elicit the production of clitics that do not freely alternate with null objects. This
allowed for testing whether children overgeneralized the null object construction. They found
that, indeed, children omitted 1st and 2nd person clitics, as well as reflexive clitics—all these
are not legitimate null objects in adult grammar. On the basis of this result, they formulated
the hypothesis that children overextend the null object option to all types of clitic pronouns.
570  João Costa and Ruth E. V. Lopes
If this hypothesis is on the right track, this means that children know that the language
has null objects. This has been confirmed on independent grounds for EP and for BP. For EP,
Costa and Lobo (2009) tested the comprehension of sentences containing a verb that could
be either transitive or intransitive (e.g. acordar / wake up), and checked whether children
could assign transitive readings to a verb that is not followed by an overt complement. They
found that they can do it, but that they overaccept transitive readings in reflexive contexts
and in islands. Interestingly, this is coherent with what was found in the production exper-
iments. Children overuse null objects in production, and they overaccept null objects in
comprehension.
BP no longer has 3rd person clitics, and null objects occur quite freely, even within islands,
if the antecedent is inanimate. Animate antecedents are recovered with strong pronouns if
they are specific. Null objects can also be deictic, with no linguistic antecedent, or anaphoric,
with a linguistic antecedent in the previous discourse (see Chapter 16 on null objects in
Portuguese).
Null objects are to be found in the Brazilian children’s initial utterances. However, as
Lopes (2009) has shown, those are instances of deictic null objects. Children also make
massive use of lexicalized DPs in object position, especially when they want to establish
anaphoric relations (see (27) below). Anaphoric null objects, as well as the use of pronouns,
will only be attested in spontaneous production data some time later, after a child’s second
birthday.
(27) Agora eu vou botar minha massinha n[o meu forno], porque eu tenho [o meu forno]. (AC 2.8)
Now I go put_inf my dough_diminutive in+[the my oven], because I have
[the my oven].
“I’ll put the dough in my oven now, because I have my oven.”
But, as is the case with EP, Casagrande (2010) also shows that young children tend to overuse
null objects. In an elicited production task with verbs that can be used as accomplishment or
activity (such as pintar “paint”), the author shows that 3 and 4 year‐olds tend to use the null
object in almost 80 percent of the time, while adult rates were as low as 33 percent. In a
different test, with specific animate antecedents, where the use of pronouns is expected,
Casagrande also shows that children tend to avoid their use, overusing the null option or
using a lexicalized DP, instead. Only the 6‐year‐old group displayed adult‐like results recov-
ering animate antecedents by means of strong pronouns.
Returning to clitics, it is known that in EP they can appear in proclitic and enclitic envi-
ronments. This might be argued to be the source of the problems in clitic production. One
might think that children avoid clitics because, say, their positional possibilities indetermine
their morphophonological status. However, this turns out not to be the case. Duarte et al.
(1995) and Duarte and Matos (2000) report that children acquiring EP generalize enclisis, as
in the examples in (28):
(28) a. Não chama‐se nada. (M 20 months)
Not call‐refl nothing
“It is not called that.”
b. Porque é que foste‐me interromper? (R., 29 months)
Why is that go‐me interrupt‐inf
“Why is it that you interrupted me?”
There are two reasons to dissociate issues related to clitic placement from the generalization
of null objects. Costa, Fiéis, and Lobo (2014) show that problems with clitic placement arise
even with those clitics that are not as easily omitted, in particular the clitic se. Morever, they
also show that the generalization of enclisis lasts longer than the period during which,
Acquisition of Portuguese Syntax  571
according to Silva (2008)’s findings, children generalize null objects. There is, thus, no corre-
lation between the two phenomena. One interesting aspect of the generalization of enclisis,
reported in Costa, Fiéis, and Lobo (2013), is that it is context‐sensitive. The authors show that
proclisis is acquired in accordance with the following scale:
(29) Negation > Negative Subjects, Subjunctive complements > Proclisis triggering
adverbs > Adverbial clauses, Quantified subjects
This scale of development relates with input variability and with the inherent properties of
each of these contexts: e.g., if one compares negation with adverbs, we can see that negation
is a categorical context for proclisis, whereas children must find out which preverbal adverbs
trigger proclisis, and which adverbs do not. For instance, for a pair like the one in (30), chil-
dren will have to learn that only the adverb já “already” triggers proclisis, which involves a
combination of syntactic and lexical knowledge, differently from what happens with
negation:
(30) a. Eu ontem vi‐te.
I yesterday saw youcl
b. Eu já te vi.
I already youcl
saw
In a sense, proclisis with negation involves only syntactic knowledge, whereas proclisis with
adverbs involves syntactic and lexical knowledge.
These data lead to the conclusion that pronoun omission is not a side effect of difficulties
with clitic placement in EP.
4.2.  The comprehension of pronouns
A well‐known fact about the acquisition of pronouns is that there is a cross‐linguistic
difference between languages with clitic pronouns and languages with strong pronouns
(Chien and Wexler 1990, McKee 1992, among others). It is known that, until the age of 5, chil-
dren may assign reflexive readings to strong pronouns, as in English sentences like (31):
(31) Bill washed him.
They do not misinterpret anaphors (self forms). It is also known that these interpretation
problems do not show up when the pronoun is a clitic. This strong pronoun–clitic asym-
metry is interesting, because the acquisition of the varieties of Portuguese provides a good
testing ground for the idea that this difference is crucial (recall that BP no longer has 3rd
person clitics). Grolla (2010) assessed the comprehension of pronouns by children acquiring
BP, and found that there are problems in the interpretation of pronouns. This is different
from what was found for EP in Cristóvão (2006) and Silva (2012): in EP, children performed
basically at adult levels in the interpretation of pronouns. Crucially, the test items contained
strong pronouns in BP and clitics in EP:
(32) a. O dragão está coçando ele BP
the dragon is scratching him
b. A mãe lava‐a? EP
the mother washes hercl
This asymmetry between clitics and strong pronouns, and the observation that only the
interpretation of strong pronouns is affected, led Costa and Ambulate (2010) and Silva (2015)
to test the relevance of strong pronouns within one and the same variety of Portuguese.
572  João Costa and Ruth E. V. Lopes
Costa and Ambulate (2010) tested the comprehension of strong pronouns in embedded
contexts, in sentences like (33) in EP:
(33) O Shrek disse ao Noddy que ele tem fome.
The Shrek told the Noddy that he has hunger
“Shrek told Noddy that he is hungry.”
This is a context in which disjoint reference with the matrix subject is preferred by adults.
However, children performed at chance. In order to test cases in which strong pronouns
alternate with anaphors, Silva (2012, 2015) tested contexts of binding into prepositional
phrases, comparing children’s interpretation of strong pronouns, as in (34a), with the inter-
pretation of reflexives, as in (34b):
(34) a. A Maria gosta dela.
The Maria likes of her
b. A Maria gosta de si.
The Maria likes of self
Silva found that there is a cumulative effect of the type of pronoun with the disjoint refer-
ence. Anaphors are easier to interpret than pronouns, and the weakest forms are easier to
interpret than strong pronouns. But contexts such as those in (34a) cannot be compared to
those in (32a) either. Bertolino (2013) and Vieira (2014) have shown that Brazilian children, as
well as adults, will accept a local antecedent if the pronoun is embedded under a preposi-
tion, especially if the predicate has a reflexive flavor.
4.3.  The comprehension of null categories
We have just seen that the weakest forms (clitics and null) are easier to comprehend in the
acquisition of Portuguese. Accordingly, it is expected that null forms are the easiest type.
This is partly true, and it depends on the type of empty category to be acquired.
Let us compare different types of null forms, starting with the null subject. As previously
mentioned, children experience difficulties in the comprehension of strong pronouns in
embedded subject positions. The same does not hold for null embedded subject positions.
Both Costa and Ambulate (2010) and Silva (2012, 2015) observe that children behave in an
adult‐like way in the interpretation of embedded null subjects of the type in (35):
(35) O Shrek disse ao Noddy que ___ tem fome.
The Shrek told to Noddy that ___ has hunger
“Shrek told Noddy that he is hungry.”
However, not all properties of null subjects have been acquired by the age of 6. In Costa and
Lobo (2011), the authors ask the following question: do children acquiring EP know that the
embedded null subject is pro? In order to answer this question, they tested children’s
knowledge on the assignment of strict readings to pro. Following Miyagawa (2010), who
shows that pro induces strict readings in sentences like (36), Costa and Lobo tested children’s
interpretation of this type of utterances:
(36) O João disse que os pais estão sentados e o Pedro disse que pro têm chapéu.
The João said that the parents are sitting and the Pedro said that pro have hat.
“João said that his parent are sitting, and Pedro said that they wear a hat.”
pro = João’s parents  (strict reading—available)
pro = Pedro’s parents  (sloppy reading—unavailable)
Acquisition of Portuguese Syntax  573
Costa and Lobo found that children are not sensitive to this property of pro, and assign
sloppy readings to it. This indicates that not all properties of null subjects are acquired yet.
Interestingly, this is an area of variation between European and Brazilian Portuguese, since,
according to some descriptions, sloppy readings emerge with null subjects in BP only. Costa,
Grolla, and Lobo (2013) tested Portuguese and Brazilian children with the same task, and no
clear differences emerged, which may indicate that the properties of null categories are
acquired late in EP, but are adult‐like in BP.
Costa, Grolla and Lobo’s test was run in order to compare null subjects and null objects.
Unlike null subjects, null objects permit sloppy readings, which is illustrated in (37) (“NO”
abbreviates “null object”):
(37) O Pedro abraça os pais, mas o João beija.
The Pedro hugs the parents, but the João kisses NO.
“Pedro hugs his parents, but João kisses (them = his parents).”
NO = Pedro’s parents  (strict reading—available)
NO = João’s parents  (sloppy reading—available)
Again, children experienced some difficulties with these data, both in EP and in BP. It should
be considered, though, that in BP results might have to do with the fact that the antecedent
is animate and, therefore, the null object is not a natural option in such context for the target
grammar as well. However, if a pronoun were used, then only a strict reading would be
obtained.
There is, nevertheless, no reason to think that there is a generalized difficulty with null
categories, since in some well documented cases children perform adult‐like in the compre-
hension of null categories.
We can first consider the acquisition of nominal ellipsis, as in (38):
(38) Eu vi o urso castanho e tu o ec preto.
I saw the bear brown and you the __ black.
“I saw the brown bear, and you the black one.”
Clara (2008) and Lobo and Clara (2009) show that 2‐year‐old children produce and compre-
hend nominal ellipsis, and are able to retrieve the antecedent in structures like (38). These
authors argue that the gender and number morphology on determiners and adjectives are
important clues to the retrieval of the antecedents. Although there is a developmental effect
in comprehension, the results presented by Clara (2008) show that children’s performance
with nominal ellipsis is quite good.
SimilargoodresultsemergeinthecomprehensionofVPellipsis.BothvarietiesofPortuguese
license VP ellipsis with auxiliaries, modal or main verbs (see Chapter 16 for details).
Santos (2006/2009) tested the comprehension of VP ellipsis in EP in order to check whether
4‐ to 6‐year‐old children were able to interpret elided material in an adult‐like manner, indi-
cating a target syntactic analysis to VP ellipsis structures as well as adult‐like interpretive
conditions. Her results show that children perform at ceiling when given a chance, in truth‐
value judgment tasks, to interpret the elliptical site as identical to the antecedent VP, there-
fore showing that they preserve the identity requirement on ellipses. Santos’s experiment
was replicated with Brazilian children. Lopes and Santos (2014) found similar results for the
Brazilian children as well. The comprehension data obtained, therefore, shows that children
perform at adult levels when they can recover a matching antecedent for an ellipsis site.
Since ellipses are subject to both recoverability and licensing conditions, their comprehen-
sion involves the ability to recover elided material from a discourse antecedent as well as
knowledge of the language‐specific syntactic licensing conditions. Therefore, in order to
574  João Costa and Ruth E. V. Lopes
achieve adult‐like levels of performance, children have to operate as adults as far as their
knowledge of the syntax‐discourse interface is concerned.
As previously discussed with respect to movement and the syntax‐discourse interface, it
seems that, once again, results point in the direction that children can deal with evasive
linguistic categories, even when they are silent.
References
Abalada, S. (2012). Acquisition of the left and
right peripheries in European Portuguese. In
S. Stavrakaki, P. Konstatinopoulou, and
M. Lalioti (eds.), Advances in Language Acquisition:
Proceedings of GALA 2011. Cambridge:
Cambridge Scholars.
Adragão, M. M. and J. Costa (2004). On the status
of preverbal subjects in null subject languages:
evidence from acquisition. In J. van Kampen
and S. Baauw (eds.), Proceedings of GALA 2003.
Utrecht: LOT Occasional Series.
Bertolino, K. G. (2013). Restrições sobre a
interpretação da proforma “ele” com
antecedente local em português brasileiro: um
estudo experimental. Master dissertation,
Universidade de São Paulo.
Casagrande, S. (2010). A correlação entre objeto e
aspecto no português brasileiro: uma análise
sintático‐aquisicionista. Ph.D. dissertation,
University of Campinas.
Castro, A. and J. Ferrari‐Neto (2007). Um estudo
contrastivo do PE e do PB com relação à
identificaçãode informação de número no DP.
Letras de Hoje, 42 (1), pp. 65–76.
Cerdeira, A. M. (2006). Flexão verbal e categorias
funcionais no agramatismo. Master
dissertation, Faculdade de Ciências Sociais
e Humanas, Universidade Nova de Lisboa.
Cerejeira, J. (2009). Aquisição de interrogativas de
sujeito e de objecto em português europeu. Master
dissertation, Faculdade de Ciências Sociais e
Humanas, Universidade Nova de Lisboa.
Chien, Y.‐C. and K. Wexler (1990). Children’s
knowledge of locality conditions in binding as
evidence for the modularity of syntax and
pragmatics. Language Acquisition, 1,
pp. 225–295.
Clara, D. (2008). A aquisição da elipse nominal
em português europeu – produção e
compreensão. Master dissertation, Faculdade
de Ciências Sociais e Humanas, Universidade
Nova de Lisboa.
Corrêa, L. M. S. (1982). Strategies in the
acquisition of relative clauses. In J. Aitchison
and N. Harvey (eds.), Working Papers of the
London Psycholinguistic Research Group, 4,
pp. 37–49.
Corrêa, L. M. S. and M. R. A. Augusto (2011a).
Possible loci of SLI from a both linguistic and
psycholinguistic perspective. Lingua, 121,
p. 476–486.
Corrêa, L. M. S. and M. R. A. Augusto (2011b).
Custo de processamento e comprometimento
da linguagem: movimento sintático na
computação on‐line e minimalidade
relativizada em orações relativas e perguntas‐
QU. Anais do VII Congresso Internacional da
ABRALIN, pp. 2364–2378.
Corrêa, L. S., M. Augusto, and J. Ferrari‐Neto
(2005). The early processing of number
agreement in the DP: evidence from the
acquisition of Brazilian Portuguese. Poster
presented at the 30th Boston University
Conference On Language Development.
Correia, D. (2003). Passivas e Pseudo‐Passivas em
Português Europeu – Produção Provocada e
Compreensão. Master dissertation, University
of Lisbon.
Costa, J. and J. Ambulate (2010). The acquisition
of embedded subject pronouns in European
Portuguese. In M. Iverson, I. Ivanov, T. Judy,
J. Rothman, R. Slabakova, and M. Tryzna
(eds.), Proceedings of the 2009 Mind/Context
Divide Workshop. Sommerville, MA: Cascadilla
Press, pp. 1–12.
Costa, J., A. Fiéis, and M. Lobo (2014). Input
variability and late acquisition: clitic
misplacement in European Portuguese. Lingua,
161, pp. 10–26.
Costa, J. and M. J. Freitas (2001). Morphological
and/or prosodic place holders. In Statistical
Physics, Pattern Identification and Language
Change, ZIF – Bielefeld.
Costa, J. and N. Friedmann (2012). Children
acquire unaccusatives and A‐movement very
early. In M. Everaert, M. Marelj, and T. Siloni
(eds.), Theta System. New York: Oxford
University Press, pp. 354–378.
Acquisition of Portuguese Syntax  575
Costa, J., N. Friedmann, C. Silva, and M. Yachini
(2014). The boy that the chef cooked: the
acquisition of PP relatives in Portuguese and
Hebrew. Lingua, 150, pp. 386–409.
Costa, J., N. Grillo, and M. Lobo (2012).
Minimality beyond lexical restrictions:
processing and acquisition of free relatives in
European Portuguese. Revue Roumaine de
Linguistique/Roumanian Review of Linguistics,
LVII (2), pp. 143–160.
Costa, J., B. Fernandes, S. Vaz, and N. Grillo
(forthcoming). (Pseudo‐) Relatives and
Prepositional Infinitival Constructions in the
Acquisition of European Portuguese. Probus.
Costa, J., E. Grolla, and M. Lobo (2013). The
acquisition of microvariation in silent
categories. Paper presented at GALA 2013,
University of Oldenburg.
Costa, J. and M. Lobo (2006). A aquisição de
clíticos em PE: Omissão de Clíticos ou Objectos
Nulos? Textos Seleccionados do XXI Encontro
Nacional da Associação Portuguesa de Linguística.
Lisbon: Associação Portuguesa de Linguística,
pp. 285–293.
Costa, J. and M. Lobo (2007). Clitic omission, null
objects or both in the acquisition of European
Portuguese? In S. Baauw, F. Drijkoningen, and
M. Pinto (eds.), Romance Languages and
Linguistic Theory 2005. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins, pp. 59–71.
Costa, J. and M. Lobo (2009). Clitic omission in
the acquisition of European Portuguese: data
from comprehension. In A. Pires and J.
Rothman (eds.), Minimalist Inquiries into Child
and Adult Language Acquisition: Case Studies
across Portuguese. Berlin: de Gruyter, pp. 63–84.
Costa, J. and M. Lobo (2011) Objeto nulo na
aquisição do português europeu: pro ou
variável? XXVI Encontro Nacional da Associação
Portuguesa de Linguística. Textos Seleccionados,
pp. 197–207. http://www.apl.org.pt/apl‐
actas/xxvi‐encontro‐nacional‐da‐associacao‐
portuguesa‐de‐linguistica.html , accessed
November 17, 2015.
Costa, J. and M. Lobo (2014). Testing relativized
minimality in intervention effects: the
comprehension of relative clauses with
complex DPs in European Portuguese. Paper
presented at The Romance Turn, Palma de
Mallorca.
Costa, J., M. Lobo, and C. Silva (2009). Null
objects and early pragmatics in the acquisition
of European Portuguese. Probus, 21,
pp. 143–162.
Costa, J., M. Lobo, and C. Silva (2011). Subject‐
object asymmetries in the acquisition of
Portuguese relative clauses: adults vs.
children. Lingua, 121 (6), pp. 987–1158.
Costa, J., M. Lobo, and C. Silva (2012). Which
category replaces an omitted clitic? The case of
European Portuguese. In P. Guijarro‐Fuentes
and M. P. Larrañaga (eds.), Pronouns and Clitics
in Early Acquisition. Berlin: de Gruyter,
pp. 105–130.
Costa, J. and J. Loureiro (2006). Morphology vs.
word order in the acquisition of V‐to‐I. Catalan
Journal of Linguistics, 5, pp. 45–58.
Costa, J. and K. Szendroi (2006). Acquisition of
focus marking in European Portuguese –
evidence for a unified approach to focus. In
V. Torrens and L. Escobar (eds.), The Acquisition
of Syntax in Romance Languages. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins, pp. 319–329.
Cristóvão, S. (2006). A co‐referência nos
pronomes objecto directo na aquisição do
português europeu. Master dissertation,
Faculdade de Ciências Sociais e Humanas,
Universidade Nova de Lisboa.
Duarte, I. and G. Matos (2000). Romance clitics
and the minimalist program. In J. Costa (ed.),
Portuguese Syntax. New Comparative Studies.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, pp. 116–142.
Duarte, I., G. Matos, and I. Faria (1995).
Specificity of European Portuguese clitics in
Romance. In I. Faria and M. J. Freitas (eds.),
Studies on the Acquisition of Portuguese. Lisbon:
Colibri, pp. 129–154.
Estrela, A. (2013). A aquisição da estrutura
passiva em português europeu. Ph.D.
dissertation, Faculdade de Ciências Sociais e
Humanas, Universidade Nova de Lisboa.
Faria, I., G. Matos, M. Miguel, and M. J. Freitas
(1997). Functional categories in early
acquisition of European Portuguese. In
A. Sorace, C. Heycock, and R. Shillcock (eds.),
Proceedings of GALA 1997 (Generative
Approaches to Language Acquisition). Edinburgh:
University of Edinburgh, pp. 115–120.
Ferreira, E. (2008). Compreensão e produção de
frases relativas por crianças com perturbação
específica do desenvolvimento da linguagem e
por adultos com agramatismo. Master
dissertation, Faculdade de Ciências Sociais e
Humanas, Universidade Nova de Lisboa.
Freitas, M. J. and M. Miguel (1998). Prosodic and
syntactic interaction: the acquisition of NP
functional projections in European Portuguese.
In T. Cambier‐Langeveld, A. Liptak, and
M. Redford (eds.), Proceedings of ConSole VI,
pp. 27–44.
Friedmann, N., A. Belletti, and L. Rizzi (2009).
Relativized relatives: types of intervention in
576  João Costa and Ruth E. V. Lopes
the acquisition of A‐bar dependencies. Lingua,
119, pp. 67–88.
Friedmann, N. and J. Costa (2010a). The child
heard a coordinated sentence and wondered:
on children’s difficulty in understanding
coordination and relative clauses with crossing
dependencies. Lingua, 120 (6), pp. 1502–1515.
Friedmann, N. and J. Costa (2010b). Acquisition
of SV and VS Order in Hebrew, European
Portuguese, Palestinian Arabic, and Spanish.
Language Acquisition, 18 (1), pp. 1–38.
Friedmann, N. and J. Costa (2011). Last resort or
no resort: resumptive pronouns in Hebrew and
Palestinian Arabic hearing impairment. In
A. Rouveret (ed.), Resumptive Pronouns at the
Interfaces. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 223–239.
Fontes, E. (2008). A produção de frases relativas
restritivas no final do 1° e 2° Ciclos do ensino
básico. Master dissertation, University of
Lisbon.
Freire, G. A. N. (2013). Aquisição de verbos
perceptivos e causativos e a Teoria da Mente.
Ph.D. dissertation, University of Campinas.
Gabriel, R. (2001). A Aquisiçao das Construçoões
Passivas em Português e Inglês: Um Estudo
Translinguístico. Ph.D. dissertation, Pontifícia
Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul.
Gonçalves, F. (2004). Riqueza morfológica e
aquisição da sintaxe. Ph.D. dissertation,
Universidade de Évora.
Grillo, N. (2008). Generalized Minimality: Syntactic
Underspecification in Broca’s Aphasia. Utrech:
LOT.
Grolla, E. (2000). A aquisição da periferia
esquerda da sentença em português brasileiro.
Master dissertation, University of Campinas.
Grolla, E. (2005). Sobre a aquisição tardia de Qu
In Situ em Português Brasileiro. D.E.L.T.A.,
21 (1), pp. 57–73.
Grolla, E. (2010). Pronouns as Elsewhere Elements:
Implications for Language Acquisition.
Newcastle: Cambridge Scholars.
José, C. (2011). A produção e compreensão de
interrogativas por crianças com Perturbação
Específica do Desenvolvimento da Linguagem.
Master dissertation, Faculdade de Ciências
Sociais e Humanas, Universidade Nova de
Lisboa.
Lima, R. J., L. M. S. Corrêa, and M. R. A. Augusto
(2009). Padrões de seletividade na produção
agramática e distinção entre movimentos
sintáticos na computação on‐line. Revista da
ABRALIN, 8, pp. 139–167.
Lima Jr., J. C. de (2012). Revisitando a aquisição
de sentenças passivas do português brasileiro:
uma investigação experimental com foco na
compreensão. Master dissertation, Pontifícia
Universidade Católica do Rio de Janeiro.
Lessa de Oliveira, A. (2008). As sentenças
relativas em português brasileiro: aspectos
sintáticos e fatos de aquisição. Ph.D.
dissertation. University of Campinas.
Lobo, M. and D. Clara (2009). Comprehension of
nominal ellipsis in the acquisition of European
Portuguese. Poster presented at Theoretical
Syntax and (a)Typical Child Language
Acquisition, Workshop in tribute to Celia
Jakubowicz, University of Paris 8.
Lobo, M., A. L. Santos, and C. Soares (2012).
Aquisição de estruturas clivadas no português
europeu: produção espontânea e induzida. In
A. Costa, C. Flores, and N. Alexandre (eds.),
Textos Selecionados do XXVII Encontro Nacional
da Associação Portuguesa de Linguística. Lisbon:
Associação Portuguesa de Linguística,
pp. 319–339.
Lobo, M. and S. D. Vaz (2012). Aquisição de
exaustividade em estruturas interrogativas e
clivadas do português europeu:
desenvolvimento pragmático ou gramatical?
In A. Costa and I. Duarte (eds.), Nada na
linguagem lhe é estranho. Estudos em homenagem
a Isabel Hub Faria. Porto: Edições
Afrontamento.
Lopes, R. E. V. (1999). Uma proposta minimalista
para o processo de aquisição da linguagem:
relações locais. Ph.D. dissertation, University
of Campinas.
Lopes, R. E. V. (2003a). “Command” and the
acquisition of subject and object in Brazilian
Portuguese. In S. Montrul and F. Ordóñez
(eds.), Linguistic Theory and Language
Development in Hispanic Languages. Somerville,
MA: Cascadilla Press, pp. 317–335.
Lopes, R. E. V. (2003b). The production of subject
and object in Brazilian Portuguese by a young
child. Probus, 15, pp. 123–146.
Lopes, R. E. V. (2006). Bare nouns and DP number
agreement in the acquisition of Brazilian
Portuguese. In N. Sagarra and J. T. Almeida
(eds.), Selected Proceedings of the 9th Hispanic
Linguistics Symposium. Sommerville, MA:
Cascadilla Press, pp. 252–262.
Lopes, R. E. V. (2009). Aspect and the acquisition
of null objects in Brazilian Portuguese. In
A. Pires and J. Rothman (eds.), Minimalist
Inquiries into Child and Adult Language
Acquisition. Berlin: de Gruyter, pp. 105–128.
Lopes, R. E. V. and A. L. Santos (2014). VP‐ellipsis
comprehension in European and Brazilian
Portuguese. In J. Costa, A. Fiéis, M. J. Freitas,
Acquisition of Portuguese Syntax  577
M. Lobo, and A. L. Santos (eds.), New
Directions in the Acquisition of Romance
Languages: Selected Proceedings of The Romance
Turn V. Newcastle: Cambridge Scholars,
pp. 181–201.
Magalhães, T. (2006). O sistema pronominal
sujeito e objeto na aquisição do português
europeu e do português brasileiro. Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Campinas.
McKee, C. (1992). A comparison of pronouns and
anaphors in Italian and English acquisition.
Language Acquisition, 2, pp. 21–54.
Miyagawa, S. (2010). Why agree? Why move?
Unifying Agreement‐based and Discourse
Configurational Languages. Linguistic Inquiry
Monograph 54. Cambridge,MA: MIT Press.
Name, M. C. L. (2002). Habilidades Perceptuais e
Lingüísticas no Processo de Aquisição do
Sistema de Gênero no Português. Ph.D.
dissertation, Pontifícia Universidade Católica
do Rio de Janeiro.
Palmiere, D. T. L. (2002). A inacusatividade na
aquisição da linguagem. Ph.D. dissertation,
University of Campinas.
Perroni, M. C. (2001). As relativas que são fáceis
na aquisição do português brasileiro.
D.E.L.T.A., 17 (1), pp. 59–79.
Raposo, E. (1986). On the null object in European
Portuguese. In O. Jaeggli and C. Silva
Corvalán (eds.), Studies in Romance Linguistics.
Dordrecht: Foris, pp. 373–390.
Rubin, M. (2004). A passiva na Síndrome de
Down. Ph.D. dissertation, Universidade
Federal do Paraná.
Santos, A. L. (2006/2009). Minimal Answers.
Ellipsis, syntax and discourse in the acquisition of
European Portuguese. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Santos, R. S. (2001). A aquisição do acento
primário no português brasileiro. Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Campinas.
Santos, R. S. (2005). Strategies for word stress
acquisition in Brazilian Portuguese. In
M. Tzakosta, C. Levelt, and J. van de Weijer
(eds.), Developmental Paths in Phonological
Acquisition. Special Issue of Leiden Papers in
Linguistics, 2 (1), pp. 71–91.
Silva, C. (2008). Assimetrias na aquisição de
clíticos diferenciados em português europeu.
Master dissertation, Faculdade de Ciências
Sociais e Humanas, Universidade Nova
de Lisboa.
Silva, C. (2012). Interpretação de sujeitos
pronominais nulos e lexicais encaixados na
aquisição do português europeu. In A. Costa,
C. Flores, and N. Alexandre (eds.), Textos
Selecionados do XXVII Encontro Nacional da
Associação Portuguesa de Linguística. Lisbon:
Associação Portuguesa de Linguística,
pp. 567–586.
Silva, C. (2015). Interpretation of clitic, strong
and null pronouns in the acquisition of
European Portuguese. PhD dissertation,
FCSH‐Universidade Nova de Lisboa
Sim‐Sim, I. (1998). Linguagem e cognição. Um
olhar sobre teorias explicativas. In I. Sim‐Sim
(ed.), Desenvolvimento da Linguagem. Lisbon:
Universidade Aberta, pp. 291–338.
Simioni, L. (2007). A aquisição da concordância
nominal de número no português brasileiro:
um parâmetro para a concordância nominal.
Master dissertation, Universidade Federal de
Santa Catarina.
Soares, C. (1998). As categorias funcionais no
processo de aquisição do português europeu.
Master dissertation, University of Lisbon.
Soares, C. (2003). The C‐domain and the
acquisition of European Portuguese: the case
of wh‐questions. Probus, 15, pp. 147–176.
Soares, C. (2006). La syntaxe de la périphérie
gauche et son acquisition en Portugais
Européen. Ph.D. dissertation, University of
Paris 8.
Valente, P. (2008). A produção de frases relativas
restritivas no final do 3° Ciclo e do Secundário.
Master dissertation, University of Lisbon.
Vasconcelos, M. (1991). Compreensão e produção
de frases com orações relativas: um estudo
experimental com crianças dos três anos e
meio aos oito anos e meio. Master dissertation,
University of Lisbon.
Vaz, S. D. (2012). Aquisição de exaustividade em
crianças falantes de português europeu.
Master dissertation, Faculdade de Ciências
Sociais e Humanas, Universidade Nova de
Lisboa.
Vieira, R. C. (2014). Aquisição da proforma
contrastiva “ele mesmo” no português
brasileiro. Master dissertation, University of
São Paulo.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
1. Introduction
The goal of this chapter is to present a brief overview of some of the research issues and
topics which have been the object of current research on the acquisition of European and
Brazilian Portuguese (EP and BP, respectively) as a second language (L2). For reasons of
space, I will restrict the focus of this synopsis to work which has been conducted within a
generative framework.
The chapter is divided into three sections. The second section provides a brief introduc­
tion to some of the research questions which have dominated recent L2 acquisition research,
thus setting the stage for the review of studies on L2 Portuguese in the third section. The
chapter concludes with a brief balance of what these studies have taught us and of the ques­
tions which they raise for future research.
2.  Generative second language acquisition
In general, the problem of language acquisition may be argued to be the same for all
­
language acquisition, namely: how does an individual build a mental grammar on the basis
of the primary linguistic data he or she is exposed to? There are, of course, important differ­
ences between a child’s acquisition of one or more first languages and the acquisition of a
second language by an adult. Unlike children, for example, adults have a degree of cognitive
maturity which allows them to resort to a wider range of learning strategies in the course of
acquiring a second language; they already have knowledge of at least one language; and
they are unlikely to attain native competence—we know that near‐native competence is pos­
sible is certain language domains but unlikely to develop in others (e.g., Birdsong 1992), and
that interlanguage grammars are prone to fossilization (Selinker 1972; Lardiere 2007), that is,
to stabilize at non‐native levels. In the face of these differences, and particularly of the fact
that the end result of the acquisition process tends to be very different in first and second
language acquisition, it has often been assumed that they are qualitatively different processes.
However, in spite of all these obvious differences between L1 and L2, the two processes
have certain aspects in common: for example, it is known that, like child first language
acquisition, adult second language acquisition is also characterized by systematic develop­
mental sequences, which, in many cases, are similar to those observed in L1 acquisition,
which may explain why many of the mistakes produced by adult L2 learners are identical to
Second Language Acquisition
Ana Madeira
32
Second Language Acquisition  579
those produced by L1 children. Hence, every theory of L2 acquisition must aim to answer
(at least) the following questions: (1) What is the nature of the process of second language
acquisition? (2) How does second language knowledge develop from the initial state to the
steady state? (3) How can we explain the different levels of success in L1 and L2 acquisition,
on the one hand, and the similarities between the two processes, on the other?
In the case of the L1, it is suggested, on the basis of the observation that the language envi­
ronment does not make available to the child enough information to explain the rich and
complex knowledge system which he or she ends up developing—the so‐called “poverty of
the stimulus argument” (Chomsky 1987)—that children are genetically endowed with an
innate language faculty, which includes a Universal Grammar (UG), which specifies a set of
principles and parameterized options that guide the children in the process of language
acquisition, helping them filter and structure the primary linguistic data.
As with L1 acquisition, generative approaches to adult second language acquisition have
sought to take into account the roles played by cognitive mechanisms and language input (as
well as the learner’s L1) in order to explain how learners build their mental representations
of the L2 grammar. Hence, the central question behind generative research on L2 acquisition
has been whether it is guided by the same principles as L1 acquisition.
In attempting to answer this question, several approaches have arisen. On the one hand,
the “No Access” approaches argue that L1 acquisition and L2 learning are two fundamen­
tally different processes; hence, interlanguage grammars may end up displaying properties
which are not found in natural languages. Under this view, UG becomes inactive (or inac­
cessible) beyond the critical period and does not play any role in the learning of an L2
(e.g., Bley‐Vroman 1989). Parameter resetting should, therefore, not be possible. On the
other hand, the “Full Access” approaches argue for the full availability of UG throughout
the acquisition process and, hence, predict parameter resetting, although they may differ
as to the role attributed to the L1 at the initial state (e.g., Vainikka and Young‐Scholten’s
1996 Minimal Trees Hypothesis; Schwartz and Sprouse’s 1996 Full Transfer/Full Access
Hypothesis). In between the two extremes, we find the “Partial Access” approaches, which
assume that no new functional features may be acquired in the L2 (e.g., Hawkins and Chan
1997) or, alternatively, that only certain functional features not instantiated in the learner’s
L1 remain available for L2 acquisition and, therefore, only some parametric options may be
reset (e.g., Tsimpli and Dimitrakopoulou’s 2007 Interpretability Hypothesis, which proposes
that only uninterpretable features are no longer accessible for the adult L2 learner).
How can one decide among these different approaches? According to Schwartz and
Sprouse (2000) (see also White 2003), arguments for Full Access are provided by a large body
of empirical evidence suggesting that there is a poverty of the stimulus argument for L2, in
that it shows that L2 learners may develop specifically linguistic knowledge which cannot be
derived either from the L1 or from the language input available to the learner.
A different line of research which has emerged in recent years centers on the status of dif­
ferent grammatical phenomena for acquisition. A great deal of empirical evidence suggests
that what is difficult in acquisition are not syntactic properties, but rather properties which
are at the interface between syntax and other language modules or cognitive domains. The
syntax–semantics and syntax–discourse interfaces, in particular, have been the focus of
much recent research, with various studies suggesting that properties which involve an
interface between the syntax and other cognitive domains are subject to developmental
delays, tend to exhibit residual optionality effects and are more susceptible to cross‐linguistic
influence and fossilization, even at the most advanced stages (not only in L2 acquisition but
also in other domains such as bilingual L1 acquisition, language attrition, and language
change). This observation gave rise to an hypothesis, known as the Interface Hypothesis
(Sorace and Filiaci 2006), which states that properties at the interface between the syntax and
other domains may never be completely acquired, in contrast to strictly syntactic properties,
580  Ana Madeira
which are fully acquirable. This greater vulnerability of interface properties has been attributed
either to representational deficits or to inadequate processing strategies.
However, it is open to debate whether all interface properties are equally hard to
acquire. It has been claimed, for example, that properties at the interface between the
grammar and discourse may be more difficult than properties at the syntax–semantics
interface (e.g., Tsimpli and Sorace 2006). Hence, for instance, while the discourse conditions
which determine the distribution of overt and null pronominal subjects have been shown
to develop later than the morphosyntactic properties which make null subjects possible,
and are often not fully acquired, even by near‐native learners (e.g., Montrul and Rodríguez
Louro 2006), much recent work focusing on L2 learners of Romance languages has shown
that knowledge of grammatical aspectual distinctions (relevant to the syntax–semantics
interface) can be acquired, even by learners whose L1 lacks such distinctions (e.g., Montrul
and Slabakova 2003). This has led to a more recent formulation of the Interface Hypothesis,
which proposes that the interfaces which are external to the grammar (e.g., grammar–
discourse) may present more difficulties in acquisition that those which are internal to the
grammar (e.g., syntax–semantics) (Sorace 2011), as they require the integration of linguistic
and non‐linguistic information, thus being more costly in terms of the cognitive load
which they place on the learner.
These issues provide the background for the research on the L2 acquisition of Portuguese
which is discussed below.
3.  Central issues
In the previous section, we considered some of the research questions which have been
addressed within the generative paradigm. In this section, I will provide an overview of
some of the topics which have been investigated in research on the L2 acquisition of
Portuguese and which are relevant to these issues. I will concentrate on five topics which
have received some attention in recent literature: pronominal clitic and null objects, inflected
infinitives, aspect, verb movement, and pronominal subjects.
The recent literature on the acquisition of Portuguese has also revealed a growing interest
in heritage language and third language (L3) acquisition, following a trend which has been
observed for other languages. An examination of this research falls outside the scope of this
chapter, although I may refer to some of the studies, given that there is some overlap with
respect to the topics investigated.
3.1.  Parameter resetting
In this section, we will consider studies on the acquisition of morphosyntactic properties,
with the aim of drawing conclusions regarding the possibility of L2 parameter resetting.
One grammatical phenomenon which can help us understand how these properties are
acquired is clitic placement: given that clitics are standardly assumed to be associated with
functional projections in the clause structure, and considering the distinctive placement
­
patterns which they display in EP, an understanding of how they are acquired may lead us
to a better understanding of how syntactic knowledge develops in interlanguage grammars.
Madeira and Xavier (2009) address the question of how knowledge of the syntactic distribu­
tion of clitics develops in L2 EP. Assuming a Full Access approach, the study tests the differ­
ent predictions made by two theoretical hypotheses: Schwartz and Sprouse’s (1996) Full
Transfer/Full Access, which assumes that functional categories may be available at the initial
state by transfer from the learner’s L1, with their specific properties developing ­
gradually—
hence, different developmental paths are predicted depending on the learner’s L1;
Second Language Acquisition  581
and  Vainikka and Young‐Scholten’s (1996) Minimal Trees, which argues for the initial
unavailability of functional categories, with these emerging gradually (and, hence, identical
developmental paths are expected for all learners).
Based on an analysis of spontaneous production data from elementary, intermediate, and
advanced learners, as well as on a grammaticality judgment task (administered only to
elementary learners), the study compares native speakers of clitic and non clitic languages,
and arrives at the following conclusions: (1) clitics are produced from the early stages;
(2) learners develop early knowledge of the syntactic properties of clitics, excluding them
from positions in which only strong pronouns are allowed; (3) knowledge of placement
patterns develops gradually (unlike what has been found for other Romance languages, in
which no difficulties with clitic placement have been reported): there is an initial overgener­
alization of enclisis (which, in EP, is only allowed in the absence of a proclisis trigger, such
as, for example, negation or certain preverbal adverbs and quantifiers), followed by gradual
acquisition of the conditions which determine proclisis, starting with negation. Although
no advanced learners participated in the study, the results from the intermediate learners
indicate that the syntactic properties of clitics may be fully acquired. Hence, the results favor
a weak continuity approach (as instantiated by the Minimal Trees Hypothesis): L2 learners
acquire the morphosyntactic properties of clitics gradually, following a common develop­
mental path, independently of their L1. This path appears to be similar to that found in the
L1 acquisition of EP (Costa, Fiéis, and Lobo 2014).
Despite the misplacement errors produced by L2 learners, there is some evidence indi­
cating that they may be more sensitive to the distinction between enclisis and proclisis than
it would appear. An acceptability judgment task used in Fiéis, Madeira, and Xavier’s (2013)
study on clitic climbing (see section 3.2.), which tested, among other things, for knowledge
of enclisis and proclisis in negation contexts, revealed that, although the elementary and
intermediate learners did not evidence knowledge of the conditions governing enclisis and
proclisis, exhibiting great variability, they were sensitive to the distinction and were aware of
the status of negation as a proclisis trigger. Hence, the results of this study showed an asymmetry
between clitic climbing contexts with and without negation in the matrix domain—similarly to
the native control group, L2 learners displayed higher rates of acceptance of clitic climbing
in the presence of negation in the higher clause (hence, (1a) is judged to be more acceptable
than (1b)).
(1)  a.  O João não o   vai  ver.
the  João not him‐cl goes see‐inf
“João is not going to see him.”
b. O João  vai‐  o    ver.
the João  goes him‐cl see‐inf
“João is going to see him.”
The production data analyzed in Madeira and Xavier’s (2009) study showed indications
that learners occasionally resort to strategies in order to avoid the use of clitics: substi­
tution of a strong pronoun or a full determiner phrase for the clitic, or, more significantly,
clitic omission. The latter is a phenomenon which has also been observed to occur in
the L1 acquisition of EP (Costa and Lobo 2009) and has been linked to the availability of
null objects in the language. Fiéis and Madeira (2014) conducted a study with adult
intermediate learners of EP, speakers of English (which has neither clitics nor null
objects), Spanish (which has clitics but no null objects in specific contexts) and Chinese
(which has null objects but no clitics). Based on production and comprehension data, it
was shown that, although all the groups produced and accepted clitics, there was a clear
asymmetry between the performance of the Chinese group, which exhibited high rates
582  Ana Madeira
of (acceptance of) omission, and that of the other two groups. At least in production,
the  omission decreased in island contexts, which suggested that clitic drop actually
­
corresponded to null objects. Although the rates of omission observed are lower than those
reported for L1 EP, they appear to be significantly higher than those found in the adult
L2 acquisition of other Romance languages (see, e.g., Arche and Domínguez’s 2011 study
on Spanish).
Another phenomenon which has been argued to confirm that parameter resetting is
possible in L2 acquisition is the inflected infinitive. With the goal of testing the predic­
tions of two different approaches—Full Access and Partial Access (namely, Hawkins and
Chan’s 1997 Failed Functional Features Hypothesis, according to which L2 morphosyn­
tactic features which are not available in the learners’ L1 grammar may not be acquired)—
Rothman and Iverson (2007) investigated the acquisition of inflected infinitives in BP
by  seventeen English and eight Spanish/English bilingual adult learners placed at an
advanced level. Assuming Raposo’s (1987) analysis of the inflected infinitive as involving
two parameters, namely, the Null Subject Parameter and the Inflection Parameter (a mor­
phological parameter), the learning task is assumed to differ for the two groups: whereas
the monolingual English group must reset both parameters, the bilingual Spanish/
English group only has to reset the Inflection Parameter. Rothman and Iverson (2007)
used a grammaticality judgment task to test for knowledge of the syntactic distribution of
inflected infinitives (namely, knowledge that they are allowed in certain contexts, such as
complements to declarative and factive verbs, but not in others, such as interrogative and
relative clauses, as well as finite contexts). They also tested for knowledge of the different
properties of inflected and non‐inflected infinitives with respect to control properties,
which give rise to different semantic interpretations: unlike uninflected infinitival clauses,
the subject of inflected infinitival clauses does not require a local c‐commanding ante­
cedent (2) and allows split antecedents (3); moreover, inflected infinitives allow a strict
interpretation under ellipsis (4).
(2)  Eui
  lamento [‐]j
  termos mentido.
I regret‐1sg have‐inf‐1pl lied
“I regret that we lied.”
(3) Eui
  convenci o Joãoj
a [‐]i+j
irmos    ao cinema.
I convinced‐1sg the João to go‐inf‐1pl to‐the cinema
“I convinced João that we should go to the cinema.”
(4) Eui
fiquei  feliz  por [‐]j
teres    conseguido o  emprego e a Joana também [‐].
I  was‐1sg happy for  have‐inf‐2sg got  the job and the Joana also
“I was happy that you got the job and Joana was too.” (= Joana was happy that you
got the job.)
On the basis of the results of a context match task, Rothman and Iverson (2007) conclude
that their L2 learners display native‐like knowledge of these interpretative restrictions on the
inflected infinitive. These results are argued to support Full Access, as no significant differ­
ences were found between the results of the two groups and those of the native control
group, which indicates that learners have developed native‐like knowledge of the morpho­
logical and syntactic properties of the inflected infinitive, as well as of the interpretative
properties which are derived from their control properties.
Given that the learners in this study were advanced learners, it is possible to reach a
conclusion regarding the acquisition of the properties of the inflected infinitive, but not
regarding the way in which these properties develop and whether they all develop
simultaneously.
Second Language Acquisition  583
Using three experimental tasks (an adapted version of Pires and Rothman’s (2009)
­
morphological recognition task, a syntactic distribution task and an interpretation task),
Madeira and Xavier (2012) tested adult elementary and advanced Chinese‐ and Spanish‐
speaking learners of L2 EP for knowledge both of the morphosyntactic properties of the
inflected infinitive and of those control properties which are relevant for the interpreta­
tion. The results confirmed Rothman and Iverson’s (2007) findings for BP, providing
further evidence for Full Access: the advanced learners were found to have developed
knowledge of the morphological and syntactic properties of the inflected infinitive, thus
showing that successful acquisition is indeed possible for all learners, independently of
their L1. However, this knowledge appears to develop gradually, as the elementary groups
performed in a significantly ­
different manner both from the advanced groups and from the
native controls in the study.
In a different study, Rothman (2009) further tests the predictions of Full Access and Partial
Access approaches, this time investigating the acquisition, by twenty-one advanced English
learners of L2 BP, of a syntactic asymmetry displayed by inflected and uninflected infinitives.
As first noted in Quicoli (1988), inflected infinitival subjects may only undergo movement
from Aʹ‐positions, whereas uninflected infinitives only allow subject extraction from an
A‐position (see (5–6)).
(5)  As meninas parecem  gostar(*em)  do   
filme.
the girls  appear‐3pl like‐inf‐(*3pl) of‐the  film
“The girls appear to like the film.”
   (Rothman 2009: 126)
(6) Que  meninos você acha   ser*(em)  os mais inteligentes do    grupo?
which boys you think‐3sg be‐inf‐*(3pl) the most intelligent  of‐the group
“Which boys do you think are the most intelligent from the group?”
(Rothman 2009: 127)
A comparison between the results obtained by the L2 learners in a grammaticality judg­
ment task with correction and those of a native control group shows that the L2 learners
exhibit target‐like behavior with respect to the distinction between inflected and uninflected
infinitives with embedded subject movement. Again, this constitutes further evidence for
parameter resetting and, hence, for Full Access.
Another morphosyntactic phenomenon which has been investigated is verb movement.
In a paper which seeks to determine whether there are any similarities between heritage
speakers and L2 learners, Santos and Flores (2013) examine the acquisition of V‐to‐I
movement, by twenty-one adult intermediate learners of EP, who are native speakers of
German, comparing them both to child Portuguese–German heritage speakers and to child
and adult monolingual EP speakers. Verb raising is a core syntactic property, which deter­
mines, amongst other phenomena, the relative order of the verb and low adverbs (7).
(7) A   Sara pintou    completamente a    
parede.
the Sara painted‐3sg  completely  the  wall
“Sara painted the wall completely.”
    (Santos and Flores 2013: 567)
Although the L2 learners were learning Portuguese in a formal instructional setting,
adverb placement was not explicitly taught in class. On the basis of the findings from two
experimental tasks (a production task and a grammaticality judgment task), it is shown that
the L2 learners do not show any significant differences from the control groups, show a
584  Ana Madeira
preference for V‐Adv order, which confirms that they have acquired V‐to‐I movement, and show
no effects of influence of their L1 V2 grammar, which provides evidence for parameter resetting.
To conclude this section, we consider null subjects. Madeira, Xavier, and Crispim (2009)
examine how knowledge of the morphosyntactic properties associated with a positive value
of the null subject parameter develops in the grammars of L2 learners of EP at different levels
of proficiency. The results of the study, which is based on production data and on data from
a preference judgment task, indicate that these properties are acquired early, although some
differences are observed between speakers of different L1s, not with respect to the path of
acquisition which they follow, but in their pace of development. This confirms the conclu­
sions of an earlier study on the development of null subject properties in the grammars of
Spanish‐speaking learners of EP, which showed that the null subject L1 grammar of the
learners did not appear to influence the developmental path of these properties, with the
parametric properties emerging gradually (Mendes 2007).
Although BP displays different properties regarding the availability of null subjects,
allowing a reduced use of null subjects and displaying a preference for overt pronominal
subjects in many contexts (it has been argued that BP has undergone a change from a full
pro‐drop to a semi‐pro‐drop language - see, e.g., Duarte 1995), it appears that the relevant
properties are also acquired early by L2 learners of BP; furthermore, their development
does not exhibit significant L1 effects and it follows a fixed path (Xavier 2006; Montrul, Dias,
and Thomé‐Williams 2009; Molsing 2011).
3.2. Interfaces
In this section, we will describe a few studies which aim to determine whether there is selec­
tivity in the acquisition of different types of phenomena, as has been argued under the
Interface Hypothesis (see Section 2, Generative second language acquisition).
We start by returning to a construction which was mentioned in the previous section,
namely clitic climbing. This is a phenomenon which is found in restructuring contexts and
whose acquisition requires developing different types of knowledge: syntactic knowledge,
as learners need to develop knowledge of the functional properties of clitics, and lexical
knowledge, as they also need to learn which particular verbs allow restructuring. Hence,
whether clitic climbing is obligatory or not depends on the degree of functional defective­
ness of the complement selected by the verb (see (8) and (9) below).
(8)  *Tinham telefonado‐te /   Tinham‐te    
telefonado.
had‐3pl  phoned‐pp you‐cl / had‐3pl you‐cl phoned‐pp
“I had phoned you.”
(9)  Quero    telefonar‐  te /   Quero‐  te   telefonar.
want‐1sg phone‐inf you‐cl / want‐1sg you‐cl phone‐inf
“I want to phone you.”
Clitic climbing was investigated in a study by Fiéis, Madeira, and Xavier (2013). Forty
elementary and intermediate Spanish‐ and German‐speaking university students on study‐
abroad programs in Portugal, as well as ten native controls, participated in the study. The
choice of these language groups was determined by the characteristics of each language with
respect to the relevant properties: hence, Spanish has both restructuring and clitic climbing,
whereas German only exhibits restructuring. The study sought to address the following
research questions: (1) How early does clitic climbing develop in the acquisition of L2 EP? (2)
Does knowledge of the verbs which disfavor or trigger (obligatory or optional) clitic climbing
develop early? and (3) does the L1 play a role in the acquisition of clitic climbing? The results
Second Language Acquisition  585
of an acceptability judgement task showed that only the intermediate Spanish‐speaking
learners performed systematically on a par with the native control group. Clitic climbing
was shown to emerge early, independently of the learners’ L1, which indicates early avail­
ability of the relevant functional positions in the clause structure. Nevertheless, the fact that
the performance of the elementary Spanish‐speaking group consistently differed from that
of the intermediate group with respect to the distinctions established among the different
verbs tested showed a clear proficiency effect for this L1 group. The near‐target‐like behavior
of the intermediate group indicates that, at least for some L1 groups, the development of
lexicon–syntax interface properties is not delayed. No differences were found between the
two German‐speaking groups, and the two intermediate groups consistently exhibited dif­
ferent behaviors, which suggests that the L1 may play a facilitating role in the acquisition of
these types of properties.
In another study on L2 BP inflected infinitives, Iverson and Rothman (2008) investigated
knowledge of the genericity effects which characterize eventive verbs in the inflected infin­
itival complements of propositional verbs (Ambar 1998). Whereas the inflected infinitive
in (10) is impossible with a single event reading, the generic reading forced by the bare plural
direct object and by the adverbial in (11) makes the sentence grammatical.
(10)  *Penso lerem     o jornal.
think‐1sg read‐inf‐3pl the newspaper
“I think that they read the newspaper.”
(11)  Penso   
lerem      jornais   todos os dias.
think‐1sg read‐inf‐3pl newspapers all  the days
“I think that they read newspapers every day.”
Assuming that, although knowledge at the interface between syntax and semantics may
be harder to acquire than syntactic knowledge, it is, nevertheless, acquirable, Iverson and
Rothman (2008) predict convergence on the relevant properties. These predictions are con­
firmed: the results of a truth value judgment task reveal no significant differences between
their advanced English‐speaking learners and the native controls, showing that syntax–
semantics interface knowledge may indeed be fully acquired.
A similar conclusion is reached regarding the acquisition of aspectual contrasts in BP. In
a series of studies investigating L2 learners’ knowledge of semantic contrasts associated with
the Preterite/Imperfect distinction (e.g., Goodin‐Mayeda and Rothman 2007; Rothman and
Iverson 2008), it is shown that advanced English learners perform target‐like with respect to
the interpretation of these contrasts. Rothman and Iverson (2008) argue that even the group of
intermediate learners included in their study, although differing from the native controls, still
manage to establish a distinction between the Preterite and the Imperfect. It appears, therefore,
that knowledge of these properties is not necessarily delayed (despite the deficits in the pro­
duction of the associated verbal morphology noted in the literature—see, e.g., Lardiere 2007).
Returning to Santos and Flores (2013) (see section 3.1.), another property investigated
in their study, which has also been shown to be related to verb movement, is VP‐ellipsis.
Unlike adverb placement, VP‐ellipsis involves knowledge of discourse constraints, as the
elided material must be identified by the preceding discourse (12).
(12) A Teresa tinha oferecido flores à mãe e a Ana também tinha [oferecido flores à mãe].
the Teresa had -3sg offered flowers to‐the mother and the Ana also had -3sg
[offered flowers to-the mother]
“Teresa had offered flowers to her mother and so had Ana.”
           (Santos and Flores 2013: 568)
586  Ana Madeira
Using an elicited production task, Santos and Flores (2013) show that all their groups
produce VP‐ellipsis. However, unlike what was found for adverb placement, the behavior of
the L2 group with respect to this property is argued to differ significantly from that of the
adult L1 controls, exhibiting significantly lower production rates. Hence, a comparison of
these results with those obtained for adverb placement reveals a delayed development of
knowledge of VP-ellipsis. This differs from what is known about VP‐ellipsis in L1 EP, where
it has been shown to be acquired early (Santos 2009).
Another phenomenon which is relevant to the syntax–discourse interface is the dis­
tribution of pronominal subjects. Madeira, Xavier, and Crispim (2009) also considered
learners’ performance with respect to the discourse properties which determine the
distribution of null and overt pronominal subjects. The results show a delay in the
acquisition of these properties, particularly for speakers of non‐pro‐drop languages. In
a further study (Madeira, Xavier, and Crispim 2012), which examines the preferences
of elementary and advanced Italian‐ and Chinese‐speaking learners of EP regarding
the interpretation of null and overt pronominal subjects, a clear asymmetry between
the Italian and the Chinese learners was revealed. Hence, whereas the Italian learners
displayed target‐like preferences with both overt and null subjects, the Chinese learners
only showed target‐like preferences with null subjects, revealing difficulties in the
interpretation of overt pronominal subjects. This appears to confirm that there is an L1
effect in the acquisition of the interpretation bias which characterizes (at least, overt)
pronominal subjects.
4.  Concluding remarks
We have considered the theoretical issues discussed in the introduction to the framework
above (see Section 2, Generative second language acquisition) in the light of research
conducted in recent years on the L2 acquisition of EP and BP. Some of the constructions
which have been investigated present features which, within the context of Romance lan­
guages, are specific to Portuguese (e.g., clitic placement patterns, null objects and inflected
infinitives), whereas others are also found in some of the other Romance languages (e.g.,
verb raising or the Preterite/Imperfect distinction). Furthermore, while the two varieties of
Portuguese considered here share some of the properties discussed above (e.g., the Preterite/
Imperfect distinction), other properties differ in the two languages (e.g., the distribution of
null subjects) and, in other cases, although they display identical characteristics and
distribution, they present different degrees of productivity (e.g., inflected infinitives).
Nevertheless, the results obtained in the studies which focus on BP and those focusing on
EP appear to lead to similar conclusions; and, moreover, the overall conclusions that we
reach when we consider the various studies described in this chapter corroborate those
reached by research on other languages.
With respect to morphosyntactic phenomena such as clitic placement, inflected infini­
tives, verb movement and null subjects, the general conclusion appears to be that they tend
to be acquired fairly early (with knowledge of clitic placement and inflected infinitives
appearing to develop more slowly than knowledge of verb movement and null subjects).
Moreover, it appears that, at least for some of the properties (e.g., clitic placement), there is a
common developmental path which is not influenced by the learner’s L1 and which, for
some phenomena, might be similar to the one observed in the L1 acquisition of Portuguese.
Taken together, these conclusions support Full Access approaches, confirming that param­
eter resetting is indeed possible.
Second Language Acquisition  587
Regarding interface properties, we considered different types of properties. Clitic climbing,
which requires the integration of syntactic and lexical knowledge, appears to be delayed, but
nevertheless acquirable. On the other hand, the genericity restrictions on inflected infinitival
complements to propositional verbs and the semantic contrasts associated with the Preterite/
Imperfect distinction, which also involve integration of different types of knowledge (syn­
tactic and semantic knowledge, in the former case, and morphological and semantic in the
latter), may also be delayed, but they were shown to have been fully acquired by learners at
the advanced level, who displayed target‐like knowledge of these properties. Finally, the
results regarding VP‐ellipsis and pronominal subjects reveal that learners have difficulties
with properties which require the integration of syntactic and contextual information.
Considered together, these findings appear indeed to confirm Sorace’s (2011) formulation of
the Interface Hypothesis—external interface properties present more difficulties for L2
learners and appear to be developmentally delayed, when compared to internal interface
properties.
There are still many open questions regarding the status of different properties in L2
acquisition. For example, why is knowledge of some morphosyntactic properties delayed
when compared to other properties of the same type? It is probably not accidental that the
two properties which appear to be delayed in the studies surveyed above are clitic
placement (in EP) and inflected infinitives (in both varieties), which are properties which
set Portuguese apart from other Romance languages. Could there be a complexity factor at
play here? Regarding the interface properties we examined, and which also appear to dif­
fer among themselves with regard to timing of acquisition, it has to be noted that not all
the learners in the different studies were at the same level of proficiency. In order to reach
firmer conclusions on whether there are in fact any asymmetries among different properties,
it is necessary to conduct further studies, ensuring homogeneity with respect to the partic­
ipants’ levels of proficiency.
Cross‐linguistic influence appears to be stronger with interface properties (in the case
of morphosyntactic properties, clear L1 effects are observed only with respect to clitic
omission). However, not all knowledge of interface properties shows evidence of cross‐
linguistic influence: this is visible with respect to the syntax–discourse interface ­properties
(VP‐ellipsis and pronominal subjects) as well as with clitic climbing. It is therefore not
clear yet why some phenomena are more susceptible to cross‐linguistic influence than
others.
Regarding VP‐ellipsis, Santos and Flores (2013) claim that at least some of their L2 learners
tend to avoid VP‐ellipsis preferring to resort to alternative strategies which are available in
German (and also possible in Portuguese), namely, pseudo‐stripping and use of pronouns
and adverbs. Hence, in this case, L1 influence would determine a preference for one particular
strategy in a situation in which more than one strategy is available.
As for the role of the input and, in particular, of explicit instruction, in general, all the
L2 learners in the studies discussed in this chapter had learnt Portuguese formally and
many were either on study‐abroad programs at the time of the study or had spent some
time in a Portuguese‐speaking country. Nevertheless, not all the properties investigated
and which were argued to have been acquired are taught explicitly in the classroom
(this is the case, for example, of some of the interpretative contrasts associated with the
Preterite/Imperfect distinction or the genericity constraints found with the inflected
infinitive). Moreover, in the case of properties which are explicitly taught, such as clitic
placement, the order of acquisition observed does not necessarily coincide with the order
in which these ­
constructions are taught. Hence, there are still many questions regarding the
effect of explicit instruction on the acquisition of different types of grammatical properties.
In particular, it would be interesting to conduct more studies on naturalistic L2 learners
588  Ana Madeira
in order to understand whether there are any significant differences with regard to the
acquisition of different types of properties.
Finally, some of the differences between EP and BP relate to the degree of productivity
of grammatical structures. For instance, whereas inflected infinitives are highly productive
in all registers of EP (particularly in certain contexts, such as, e.g., adverbial clauses), it is
claimed that in colloquial BP the inflected infinitive is no longer a productive option (see,
for example, Pires and Rothman 2009, who argue that the inflected infinitive is acquired
through schooling). This would be a case where it would be interesting to compare formal
and informal learners, and to conduct studies which allowed us to ­
compare informal
learners of EP and BP. In general, there are not enough studies which compare the two
varieties in the domain of L2 acquisition. This is clearly an area where a lot of work
remains to be done.
References
Ambar, M. (1998). Inflected infinitives revisited:
genericity and single event. The Canadian
Journal of Linguistics/La Revue Canadienne de
Linguistique, 43, pp. 5–36.
Arche, M. and L. Domínguez (2011). Morphology
and syntax dissociation in SLA: a study on
clitic acquisition in Spanish. In A. Galani,
G. Hicks, and G. Tsoulas (eds.), Morphology and
its Interfaces. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 291–320.
Birdsong, D. (1992). Ultimate attainment in
second language acquisition. Language, 68,
pp. 706–755.
Bley‐Vroman, R. (1989). What is the logical
problem of foreign language learning? In
S. Gass and J. Schachter (eds.), Linguistic
Perspectives on Second Language Acquisition.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
pp. 41–68.
Chomsky, N. (1987). Language and Problems of
Knowledge. The Managua Lectures. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Costa, J. and M. Lobo (2009). Clitic omission in
the acquisition of European Portuguese: data
from comprehension. In A. Pires and
J. Rothman (eds.), Minimalist Inquiries into Child
and Adult Language Acquisition: Case Studies
across Portuguese. Berlin: de Gruyter, pp. 63–84.
Costa, J., A. Fiéis, and M. Lobo (2014). Input
variability and late acquisition: clitic
misplacement in European Portuguese. Lingua,
2191, pp. 1–17.
Duarte, M. E. L. (1995). A perda do princípio
“Evite Pronome” no português brasileiro.
Ph.D. dissertation, Universidade Estadual
de Campinas.
Fiéis, A. and A. Madeira (2014). Clíticos e Objetos
Nulos na Aquisição de Português L2. Paper
presented at XXIX Encontro Nacional da
Associação Portuguesa de Linguística,
Universidade de Coimbra.
Fiéis, A., A. Madeira, and M. F. Xavier (2013).
Clitic climbing in L2 Portuguese. In J. Cabrelli
Amaro, T. Judy, and D. Pascual y Cabo (eds.),
Proceedings of the 12th Generative Approaches to
Second Language Acquisition Conference (GASLA
2013). Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Proceedings
Project, pp. 39–49.
Goodin‐Mayeda, C. E. and J. Rothman (2007).
The acquisition of aspect in L2 Portuguese and
Spanish: exploring native/non‐native
performance differences. In S. Baauw,
F. Dirjkoningen, and M. Pinto (eds.), Romance
Languages and Linguistic Theory 2005.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins, pp. 131–148.
Hawkins, R. and C. Y.‐H. Chan (1997). The partial
availability of universal grammar in second
language acquisition: the “failed functional
features hypothesis.” Second Language Research,
13, pp. 187–226.
Iverson, M. and J. Rothman (2008). The
syntax–semantics interface in L2
acquisition: genericity and inflected
infinitive complements in non‐native
Portuguese. In J. Bruhn de Garavito and
E. Valenzuela (eds.), Selected Proceedings of
the 10th Hispanic Linguistics Symposium.
Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Proceedings
Project, pp. 78–92.
Lardiere, D. (2007). Ultimate Attainment in Second
Language Acquisition: A Case Study. Mahwah,
NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Second Language Acquisition  589
Madeira, A. and M. F. Xavier (2009). The
acquisition of clitic pronouns in L2 European
Portuguese. In A. Pires and J. Rothman (eds.),
Minimalist Inquiries into Child and Adult
Language Acquisition: Case Studies across
Portuguese. Berlin: de Gruyter, pp. 273–300.
Madeira, A. and M. F. Xavier (2012). The
acquisition of the inflected infinitive by
speakers of Chinese, Italian and Spanish.
Paper presented at the Workshop on
Crosslinguistic Influence in L2, Universidade
Nova de Lisboa.
Madeira, A., M. F. Xavier, and M. L. Crispim
(2009). A Aquisição de Sujeitos Nulos em
Português L2. Estudos da Língua(gem), 7 (2),
pp. 163–198.
Madeira, A., M. F. Xavier, and M. L. Crispim
(2012). Uso e interpretação de sujeitos
pronominais em português L2. In A. Costa,
C. Flores, and N. Alexandre (eds.), Textos
Selecionados do XXVII Encontro da Associação
Portuguesa de Linguística. Lisbon: Associação
Portuguesa de Linguística, pp. 376–397.
Mendes, C. (2007). ¿Acceso a la GU en la
Adquisición de L2? Cuando las L1 y L2
comparten el Mismo Parámetro (pro‐drop).
Master dissertation, Universidad Simón
Bolívar.
Molsing, K. (2011). Sobre a Aquisição de uma
Língua Semi‐Pro‐Drop como L2. Letras de Hoje,
46 (3), pp. 44–58.
Montrul, S., R. Dias, and A. Thomé‐Williams
(2009). Subject expression in the non‐native
acquisition of Brazilian Portuguese. In A. Pires
and J. Rothman (eds.), Minimalist Inquiries into
Child and Adult Language Acquisition: Case
Studies across Portuguese. Berlin: de Gruyter,
pp. 301–325.
Montrul, S. and C. Rodríguez Louro (2006).
Beyond the syntax of the null subject
parameter: a look at the discourse‐pragmatic
distribution of null and overt subjects by L2
learners of Spanish. In V. Torrens and L.
Escobar (eds.), The Acquisition of Syntax in
Romance Languages. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins, pp. 401–418.
Montrul, S. and R. Slabakova (2003). Competence
similarities between natives and near‐native
speakers: an investigation of the preterit/
imperfect contrast in Spanish. Studies in Second
Language Acquisition, 25, pp. 351–398.
Pires, A. and J. Rothman (2009). Acquisition of
Brazilian Portuguese in late childhood:
implications for syntactic theory and
language change In A. Pires and J. Rothman
(eds.), Minimalist Inquiries into Child and
Adult Language Acquisition: Case Studies
across Portuguese. Berlin: de Gruyter,
pp. 130–153.
Quicoli, C. (1988). Inflection and parametric
variation: Portuguese vs. Spanish. Manuscript,
University of California.
Raposo, E. (1987). Case theory and infl‐to‐comp:
the inflected infinitive in European
Portuguese. Linguistic Inquiry, 18, pp. 85–109.
Rothman, J. (2009). Knowledge of A/A’‐
dependencies on subject extraction with two
types of infinitives in non‐native Portuguese
adult bilingualism. International Journal of
Bilingualism, 13 (1), pp. 111–140.
Rothman, J. and M. Iverson (2007). To inflect
or not to inflect is the question indeed:
infinitives in second language (L2)
Portuguese. Journal of Portuguese Linguistics,
6 (2), pp. 3–28.
Rothman, J. and M. Iverson (2008). Poverty‐of‐
the‐stimulus and SLA epistemology:
considering L2 knowledge of aspectual phrasal
semantics. Language Acquisition, 15 (4), pp.
270–314.
Santos, A. L. (2009). Minimal Answers: Ellipsis,
Syntax and Discourse in the Acquisition of
European Portuguese. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Santos, A. L. and C. Flores (2013). Elipse do
SV e Distribuição de Advérbios em
Português Língua de Herança e L2. Textos
Selecionados do XXVIII Encontro Nacional da
Associação Portuguesa de Linguística. Coimbra:
Associação Portuguesa de Linguística,
pp. 563–584.
Schwartz, B. and R. Sprouse (1996). L2
cognitive states and the full transfer/full
access model. Second Language Research, 12,
pp. 40–72.
Schwartz, B. and R. Sprouse (2000). When
syntactic theories evolve: consequences for
L2 acquisition research. In J. Archibald
(ed.), Second Language Acquisition and
Linguistic Theory. Oxford: Blackwell, pp.
156–186.
Selinker, L. (1972). Interlanguage. International
Review of Applied Linguistics in Language
Teaching, 10, pp. 209–232.
Sorace, A. (2011). Pinning down the concept of
“interface” in bilingualism. Linguistic
Approaches to Bilingualism, 1, pp. 1–33.
Sorace, A. and F. Filiaci (2006). Anaphora
resolution in near‐native speakers of Italian.
Second Language Research, 22 (3), pp. 339–368.
590  Ana Madeira
Tsimpli, I. M. and M. Dimitrakopoulou (2007). The
interpretability hypothesis: evidence from wh‐
interrogatives in second language acquisition.
Second Language Research, 23, pp. 215–242.
Tsimpli, I. M. and A. Sorace (2006).
Differentiating interfaces: L2 performance in
syntax–semantics and syntax–discourse
phenomena. In D. Bamman, T. Magnitskaia,
and C. Zaller (eds.), Proceedings of the 30th
Annual Boston University Conference on
Language Development. Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla Press, pp. 653–664.
Vainikka, A. and M. Young‐Scholten (1996).
Gradual development of L2 phrase
structure. Second Language Research, 12,
pp. 7–39.
White, L. (2003). Second Language Acquisition and
Universal Grammar. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Xavier, G. (2006). Português Brasileiro como
Segunda Língua: Um Estudo sobre o Sujeito
Nulo. Ph.D. dissertation, Universidade
Estadual de Campinas.
The Handbook of Portuguese Linguistics, First Edition. Edited by W. Leo Wetzels, João Costa, and Sergio Menuzzi.
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
accusative  3, 17, 210–213, 222, 226, 228, 229, 231,
322, 324, 325, 335, 342, 479, 496, 538, 539,
541, 542, 569
acquisition  9, 17, 19, 21, 42, 45, 50, 53, 87, 137,
302, 422, 487, 495, 499, 515, 527, 545–558,
562–565, 568, 569, 571–573, 578–587
adjective  116, 128, 168, 169, 171, 177, 182, 183,
185, 188, 190, 254, 257–259, 261–265, 270–272,
289, 319–321, 334, 401, 415, 481, 573
evaluative  258, 261, 262, 264, 265, 271
qualifying  258, 261, 263, 264, 271
relational  257, 258, 261, 263–265, 270, 272
adverb  18, 19, 72, 175, 177, 185, 216, 218, 243,
259, 262, 272, 298, 312, 313, 315, 360, 415,
419, 425–428, 433, 442, 443, 454, 465, 467,
471, 490–493, 568, 571, 581, 583, 585–588
adverbial  72, 172, 218, 298, 312, 364, 426, 433,
443, 471, 585, 588
affricate  57, 460
African languages  8–10, 44, 113, 428, 501
agreement  10, 11, 27, 32, 36, 43–46, 48, 49, 51,
60, 109, 122, 151, 173, 183, 188, 189, 191,
206, 222, 235, 236, 248, 249, 255, 265, 266,
269, 271, 272, 287–290, 300, 318–323, 325,
328, 329, 334, 340, 430, 433, 443, 454, 476,
478, 480, 481, 483, 486, 495, 497–500, 526,
530, 531, 535, 550, 553, 554, 564, 565
allomorphy  6, 169, 178, 186, 189, 190, 206, 211,
212, 221, 222, 228, 229, 231
anaphor  271, 295, 298, 304, 306, 338, 339,
345–347, 350–353, 359, 361, 393, 404, 480,
498, 539, 541, 570–572
animacy  296, 301–304, 528, 531, 536–538, 541
assimilation  76–79, 126, 192, 194, 203, 459, 460,
465, 515
complete  77, 78, 459
coronal 193
voicing  96, 122
augmentative  186, 195, 231
Cape Verde  41, 44, 45
Cape Verdean creole  45, 46
Catalan  17–19, 164, 428, 434
Chinese  48, 49, 276, 294, 296, 298, 495, 581,
583, 586, 589
cleft  26, 31, 32, 34, 35, 37, 145, 245, 250, 275,
277–279, 286, 287, 289–291, 567
copula  26, 31–35, 277–279, 287–290, 329,
396, 397
coreference  339, 343, 348–352, 536–538
coronal  9, 57–61, 73–75, 82, 89, 91, 93, 94, 102,
104, 108, 193, 194, 201, 207, 208, 460, 468,
504, 507–512, 514–516, 520, 522, 546, 548,
549, 558
creole  41–50, 428, 438
dative  17, 24, 45, 46, 210–213, 222, 322, 324,
335, 496, 538–542
declarative  15, 16, 22, 33, 34, 142, 149, 151, 153,
155, 215, 234, 235, 238, 239, 247–249, 413,
426, 428, 493, 494, 582
degemination 227
syllable  126, 129, 138
vowel  129, 227
deictic  29, 350–352, 396, 474, 570
deixis 352
demonstrative  245, 256, 259, 465, 467
determiner  136, 188, 254, 256, 258–261, 263,
265–270, 272, 298, 356–362, 365, 367, 369,
481, 553, 564, 565, 573, 581
diminutive  114, 186, 195, 231, 548, 549,
567, 570
Index
592 Index
diphthong  1, 2, 5, 6, 51, 58, 60, 62, 64–66, 69,
79–83, 89, 90, 92–94, 105, 111, 112, 186,
190–194, 201, 202, 204, 206–208, 219–221,
463, 464, 468, 469, 507, 509, 522, 550, 551, 553
diphthongization  2, 204, 219, 220, 227
dislocation  23, 235, 236, 243, 246, 292, 298,
494, 499
ditransitive verbs  241, 244, 568
Dutch  93, 135, 338, 343, 353, 550, 551, 560
ellipsis  240, 266, 291, 294–296, 301, 304, 307,
308, 312–315, 429, 430, 562, 563, 573, 582,
585–587
emphatic  11, 25, 29, 121, 126, 131, 278, 353, 362,
370, 428, 429, 431, 447
enclisis  11, 17–20, 36, 224, 231, 309, 310, 316,
319, 322, 330, 334, 491–494, 500, 502, 570,
571, 581
English  16, 25, 30, 32, 36, 42, 43, 48, 50, 105, 113,
142, 145, 237, 246–248, 259, 276, 281, 289,
291, 298, 302, 304, 306, 308, 309, 313, 318,
337, 339, 345, 353, 354, 356, 361, 366, 367,
370–374, 378–380, 382, 383, 396, 405, 423,
425, 427, 429, 433–436, 438, 487, 494, 550,
551, 571, 577, 582, 583, 585
epenthesis  3, 89, 93, 95, 98, 100, 102, 105, 193,
204, 461, 462, 507, 508, 549, 550, 552, 555, 556
evaluative adjective see adjective, evaluative
exclamative  409, 418, 421
existential construction  10, 11, 250, 269, 271, 359,
365, 367, 372, 417
extrametricality  90, 113–116, 554, 557
F0 see fundamental frequency
faithfulness  101, 204, 469, 556
feedback 441
focus  25, 27, 29–33, 35, 134, 141, 144–152, 244,
277–279, 286–290, 309, 320, 325, 568
broad  144, 145, 151, 156
contrastive  15, 25, 29–31, 35, 37, 136, 144–148,
246, 467
information  25, 27, 29–31, 243, 244, 250, 325
narrow  27, 35, 143, 145–148, 155, 335
fragment  245, 250, 287, 288, 291
free inversion see inversion, free
French  2, 3, 17, 19, 30, 33, 35, 37, 43, 46, 113, 163,
167, 201, 207, 230, 232, 236, 237, 243, 248,
259, 296, 298, 309, 315, 344, 379, 399, 419,
429, 430, 432, 434, 435, 476, 479, 487, 498
fricative  3, 57–61, 80, 88, 89, 93, 94, 102, 104, 105,
119, 129, 179, 504, 507, 510, 513–518, 520,
522, 546, 547, 550–553, 558
fronting  38, 235, 243, 246, 494, 547
function word  121, 139, 219, 226, 227
fundamental frequency  109, 145–150, 152–159,
161, 162, 555
future  2, 35, 82, 95, 104, 109, 110, 116, 117, 197,
198, 206, 216, 221, 222, 329, 392–394, 403,
404, 408, 413–415, 417, 418, 420, 426, 437,
447, 453, 465, 472
Galician  36, 309, 457–459, 461–464, 467, 468, 520
geminate  58, 60, 119, 458, 459, 467
gender  6, 43, 45, 46, 49, 168, 172–174, 177,
182–184, 188–191, 194, 207, 210, 265, 268,
271, 273, 289, 290, 299, 319–321, 339, 341,
352, 369, 370, 453, 464–466, 476, 480, 481,
510, 515, 526, 528, 531, 541, 555, 557, 565, 573
genitive  242, 243, 390, 495
gerund  10, 11, 21, 48, 215, 216, 224, 313, 314, 392,
405, 472, 475
glide  57, 58, 62, 65–66, 81, 82, 88–90, 93–95, 97,
98, 101, 102, 104, 105, 126, 127, 186, 192, 194,
197, 207, 218, 219, 459, 461, 462, 464, 468,
507, 514, 515, 522, 550, 551
Government and Binding  299, 309, 353
grammaticalization  32, 42, 141, 163, 175, 315,
316, 432, 443, 457, 468, 471–481, 536, 538, 541
Greek  108, 111, 175, 180, 411
Guinea‐Bissau creole  45, 46
harmony  69, 423
vowel  61, 62, 76–79, 126, 138, 178, 199, 463
hiatus  3, 5, 58, 65, 88, 91, 126, 129, 132, 138, 178,
186, 191, 201, 204, 218, 459, 462, 463, 466, 468
illocutionary force  411
imperative  6, 17, 117, 141, 151, 155, 158, 195, 198,
199, 215, 223, 233, 405, 409, 421, 423, 459, 483
imperfect  2, 6, 109, 110, 115, 116, 195–197,
392–395, 402–406, 408, 413, 418, 419, 423,
427, 465, 483, 533, 553, 585–587
impersonal  11, 198, 318, 323–337, 479
inchoative  375, 378, 379, 382, 385–387, 390, 399
incorporation  51, 130, 250, 480
indefinite  3, 29, 236, 244, 256, 259, 260, 267, 268,
286, 292, 326, 327, 329, 336, 337, 356,
359–367, 370, 372, 397, 429, 433–435, 438,
479, 493, 497, 538, 540
indicative  2, 7, 78, 110, 111, 115–117, 183, 184,
195, 196, 198, 200–205, 221, 237, 392, 403,
406, 408–415, 418–423, 533, 534, 553
infinite phrase  416
infinitive  2, 7, 10, 20, 48, 79, 168, 198, 205, 206,
313, 392, 395, 403, 405, 409, 421–423, 435,
471, 472, 483, 484, 518, 580, 582, 583, 585–588
interrogative  215, 217, 234, 238, 241, 246, 247,
259, 260, 275, 277–279, 282, 289, 582
intonation of  16
inversion  26–29, 243
free  243, 247, 248
locative  28, 36, 242, 244, 247
Index  593
subject 29
subject‐verb  27, 28, 35, 248
word order  145
island  137, 240, 241, 276, 282, 286, 290, 291, 297,
299–301, 305–307, 312, 364, 497, 522, 569,
570, 582
isomorphism 176
Italian  2, 3, 17–19, 28, 29, 40, 59, 60, 120, 164,
167, 190, 207, 228, 230, 244, 259, 315, 340,
346, 361, 366, 367, 369, 371, 399, 430,
433–435, 512–515, 586, 589
language contact  21, 41–45, 53, 54, 499
lateral  57, 58, 65, 88, 104, 194, 207, 459, 468, 515,
518, 520, 550–553, 568
Latin  1–5, 10, 11, 90, 104, 107, 108, 111, 118,
122, 168, 175, 178, 180, 181, 186, 192,
194, 206, 207, 210, 345, 346, 396, 404, 451,
457–463, 465, 467, 469, 471, 472, 476, 479,
484, 533
left periphery  30, 246, 250, 272, 276, 289,
299, 335
lexicon  2, 48, 98, 108, 186, 208, 320, 343, 399,
549, 558, 585
liquid  57, 62, 65, 87–89, 93, 104, 460, 462, 469,
550–552, 558
literacy  44, 528
locality  352, 353
locative inversion see inversion, locative
markedness  100, 101, 437, 460, 550
matrix scope see scope, matrix
medioclisis 467
merger  3, 5, 6, 197, 290, 458, 465, 474
metathesis  36, 460–462, 469
metrical theory  141
minimal sonority distance see sonority, minimal
distance
Mirandese  51, 52, 469
modal base  415–417, 420, 421
mood  109, 155, 195, 198, 237, 248, 308, 392,
408–414, 419–423, 465, 533
morphophonemic alternation  464
multilingual 8
nasal  3, 5–7, 57, 63, 67, 69, 80, 97, 468, 548,
549, 551, 559
archiphoneme 92
consonants  57, 63, 65–67, 81, 88, 94, 98, 104,
192, 201, 207, 468, 505, 548, 549
constriction 80
diphthongs  5, 65, 66, 69, 79, 81–83, 92–94,
105, 190–193, 206, 207, 219–221, 463
glide  66, 81
mora  115, 559
vowel see vowel, nasal
nasalization  3, 58, 63, 69, 126, 192, 220, 461,
462, 468
neutralization  56, 69–76, 82, 83, 127, 138, 178,
193, 201, 207, 226, 227, 508, 512, 549
Noun Phrase Concord (NPC)  526
nucleus  77, 87–90, 93, 94, 98–100, 102, 105, 109,
151, 155, 156, 158, 160, 194, 202, 207, 461,
509, 515, 550, 551, 559
number  6, 43, 46, 117, 173, 183, 184, 188, 191,
194–197, 210, 212, 222, 235–237, 255, 258,
265, 267–269, 271, 272, 288, 299, 319–321,
339, 341, 369, 465, 466, 476, 480, 483, 495,
526, 541, 542, 573
obstruent  87–89, 93, 102, 458, 459, 546
Old Portuguese  3–6, 39, 487
omission  294, 306, 569, 571, 581, 582, 587
onset  7, 56–60, 63, 65, 66, 80, 81, 87–90, 93–95,
97–108, 119, 126, 184, 204, 459–462, 468, 504,
513–517, 522, 546, 547, 549–552, 558, 563–565
operator  275, 277, 278, 280–282, 291, 297–299,
303, 359–363, 370, 395, 409, 410, 419, 420, 441
orthography  59, 83, 168, 231, 334, 427, 452
palatalization  3, 51, 57, 93, 131, 459, 460, 468,
515, 520, 523
paradigm  5, 6, 79, 151, 184, 193, 195, 198, 206,
209, 210, 228, 229, 237, 238, 242, 276, 321,
328, 330, 332, 341, 352, 363, 392, 401, 448,
453, 474, 480, 483, 495, 496, 498, 533, 534,
536, 538, 541, 542, 559, 580
Paradigm Uniformity Constraint  554
participle  2, 6, 11, 21, 22, 167, 208, 215–217, 224,
312–315, 319, 320, 328, 335, 392, 395, 401,
483, 484
partitive  38, 363, 364
passive  22, 38, 45, 256, 305, 311–214, 318–330,
334, 345, 401, 484, 488, 497, 540, 565
perceptual prominence  80
perfective  50, 193, 277, 319, 334, 372, 403, 404,
406, 484
periphrasis  2, 5, 6, 11, 223, 392, 405, 471, 472
personal pronoun  3, 127, 130, 210, 246, 249, 250,
356, 479–481
pidgin  41–43, 47, 48, 50, 53
pitch  141, 145, 149, 151, 154, 155, 160, 163, 164
pitch accent  126, 128, 129, 132–134, 141,
142, 144, 145, 147, 149, 151–155, 160,
163, 164, 431
pitch range  135, 141, 145, 147, 149, 161, 164
pluperfect  2, 5, 6, 109, 110, 116, 195, 197, 392,
393, 416, 478, 479, 484
polarity  18, 309, 359, 361–363, 366, 370, 373,
410, 425, 427–429, 433, 437, 439, 490
politeness  154, 441, 482, 483
portmanteau forms  213, 222
594 Index
possessed  10, 382, 387, 388
possessive  11, 254, 258–261, 265, 266, 270–272,
285, 341, 349–351, 353–355, 479–481, 483,
496, 533
possessor  242, 272, 379, 381–383, 387–390
possessor raising see raising, possessor
present tense  61, 63, 111, 117, 288, 315, 367, 394,
403, 418, 465, 505, 524
proclisis  11, 17–19, 21, 36, 231, 246, 309, 314, 319,
320, 330–332, 334, 426, 467, 489–492, 499,
500, 571, 581
production  67, 206, 250, 548–552, 554, 555, 558,
562, 568–570, 581, 583–586
prominence  126, 127, 129, 132, 134, 136, 141,
144, 163, 379
discourse 499
nuclear  142, 145, 163
perceptual 80
prosodic  30, 89, 145
stress  554, 555
pronominal  11, 34, 45, 46, 51, 137, 210, 211, 214,
237, 239, 288, 291, 294, 302, 338, 340, 342,
345, 347–349, 352, 353, 361, 465, 471, 479,
480, 483, 493, 496, 498, 526, 531, 533, 535,
538, 541, 542, 567, 580, 586, 587
pronoun see pronominal
prosody  130, 136, 137, 160, 492, 494, 495
prosodic rules  135
prosodic word  22, 72, 119, 125, 126, 131, 132,
138, 142, 151, 163, 175, 176, 178, 181, 184,
214, 219, 220, 516
qualifying adjective see adjective, qualifying
quantifier  11, 19, 217, 263, 265, 270, 272, 350,
357, 359, 361–354, 367, 371, 373, 408, 416,
438, 467, 534, 581
existential  359, 364, 367
raising  71, 73, 77–79, 83, 178, 197, 198, 201, 235,
242, 243, 250, 280, 281, 286, 327, 328, 336,
380, 391, 459, 462, 464, 508, 512–515, 522,
523, 583, 586
hyper‐raising  235, 250, 498, 499
possessor raising  380
reflexive  36, 46, 210, 211, 242, 323–325, 332–346,
348–351, 353–378, 380, 390, 535, 538, 542,
570–572
relational adjective see adjective, relational
relative clause  280, 282, 291, 305, 365, 409,
424, 566, 567, 582
reportative  420, 421
resultative construction  478, 484
resyllabification  104, 127, 129, 135
retroflex  59, 60, 518
rhotic  49, 57, 59–61, 86, 93, 207, 461, 514, 515,
517–520, 523, 552
rhyme  58, 65, 69, 80, 87, 89–95, 99, 104, 112, 118,
119, 551, 558
rhythm  76, 86, 120–122, 164, 443, 553, 558
root
grammatical  18, 19, 22, 36, 78, 80, 82, 109, 110,
115–117, 133, 167–169, 171–176, 178–182,
185–187, 189, 191, 193–206, 223, 224, 234,
246–250, 303, 375–378, 396, 398, 415, 428,
489, 491, 554, 559, 569
node (phonology)  72–74, 104
scope  82, 215, 218, 229, 231, 297, 312, 351, 357,
359–367, 371, 409, 419, 423
matrix  279, 364
sonority  87–89, 95, 97, 100, 102, 104, 451, 458,
459, 468, 551
minimal distance  95, 100, 102
plateau  89, 93, 95, 102
scale  88, 89, 102, 104
Sonority Sequencing Principle (SSP)  87
speech act  450, 453
speech acts theory  411
standardization  171, 507
stop  9, 51, 57, 65, 80, 93, 94, 460, 514, 515,
546, 547
stress  1, 2, 9, 12, 22, 25, 26, 29, 30, 58, 62–64, 66,
67, 69–77, 79, 80, 82, 83, 87, 89–93, 95, 96,
104, 107–122, 126–138, 142, 144, 145, 147,
151–155, 157, 158, 160, 169, 172, 174–178,
181, 185, 186, 190–194, 197, 199–202, 204,
205, 208, 214, 226, 227, 230, 245, 287, 313,
433, 463, 464, 467, 468, 505–510, 512–514,
520, 523, 533, 548, 549, 552–559, 568
contrastive 230
emphatic  126, 131
harmonized 61
nuclear  25, 29, 30
paroxytonic  76, 108, 112, 556
proparoxytonic  75, 80, 107, 108, 112, 117–119,
173, 554
subjunctive  2, 109–111, 115–117, 195, 196, 198,
200–205, 286, 297, 308, 409–414, 419–423,
460, 462, 464, 483. 484. 553, 571
subordinate clause  18, 280, 393, 409, 423,
436, 489
subordination 409
superlative  186, 262, 435
suppletive 474
suprasegmental 132
syllable structure  9, 86–88, 95, 98, 99,
101–104, 122, 457, 459, 461, 467, 545,
551, 553, 558
Index  595
telicity  396–399, 474
tense
inflection  32, 35, 49, 109, 111, 117, 195, 197,
215, 217, 221, 237, 287, 288, 291, 305, 308,
311, 312, 314–315, 318, 329, 334, 340, 341,
344, 352, 366, 392–395, 398, 400–405, 408,
409, 415–417, 420–423, 465, 471, 472, 476,
478, 484, 487, 489, 493, 496, 498, 499, 528,
533, 554
as a vowel feature  57, 61–63, 67, 458
tense/mood/aspect (TMA)  46, 117, 195–198,
201, 205, 208
thematic vowel see theme vowel
theme vowel  6, 52, 61, 82, 109, 111, 116, 117,
168, 173, 185, 190, 195, 196, 198–206, 208,
505, 559
topicalization  38, 136, 214, 251, 298, 300, 316,
390, 488, 493, 494, 501, 567
total assimilation see assimilation, complete
transitive verbs  26, 28, 33, 183, 229, 242,
244, 247, 257, 284, 294, 313, 323, 328,
329, 335, 339, 344, 345, 352, 367, 379,
383, 497, 563, 570
transitivity  531, 541
UG see Universal Grammar
umlaut  194, 463
unaccusative verbs  26–28, 33, 235, 242–244,
247, 325, 329, 390, 476, 478, 541,
563, 565
unergative verb  33, 242, 244, 328, 334, 390,
497, 563
Universal Grammar  579
velar  3, 57, 62, 65, 86, 93, 176, 179, 458, 547
velarization  3, 58, 207, 462, 515, 518
verb classes  6, 342, 376, 378, 380–383, 387,
389–391, 563
voicing assimilation see assimilation, voicing
vowel  2, 3, 5, 6, 9, 12, 49, 51–, 52, 54, 57, 58,
60–83, 86–90, 92, 93, 95, 96, 98–105, 108, 109,
111, 112, 114, 116–120, 122, 126–129, 131, 138,
140, 155, 160, 168, 169, 172, 173, 176–179,
181, 182, 185–187, 190–196, 199–208, 219,
220, 222, 226, 227, 269, 457–459, 461–465,
467, 504–518, 522, 523, 546, 548–554, 557, 559
binding  181, 187
nasal  3, 49, 51, 58, 60, 63, 66, 69, 79, 80, 82, 92,
93, 104, 105, 177, 192, 207, 459, 463, 464, 559
oral  3, 52, 80, 82, 92, 207, 463, 522
stressed  58, 61, 63, 66, 72, 76, 116, 117, 127,
172, 177, 178, 190, 191, 505, 508, 514, 524
unstressed  9, 12, 58, 64, 70, 72–74, 82, 86, 96,
104, 160, 176, 177, 181, 186, 190, 191, 204,
464, 465, 508–510, 512, 513, 548, 560
vowel alternation  194, 204–206, 208, 269
vowel harmony  61, 62, 76, 126, 138, 178, 199, 463
vowel length  90, 118, 458, 459, 467
vowel quality  160, 176, 194, 458, 459
vowel system  2, 9, 12, 52, 62, 64, 69–71, 73, 76,
79, 82, 87, 185, 190, 209, 504–506, 508, 510,
512, 548, 560
word order  15–17, 19, 21, 25–27, 29, 32, 33,
35–37, 145, 244, 246, 258, 265, 275, 323, 334,
426, 434, 488, 491–493, 500, 567
word order inversion see inversion, word order
