60   Martin Haspelmath
an overview of the way in which different criteria have been applied by
nine different authors (or author teams) in such test batteries.
	 There is no doubt that the application of such test batteries yields
important insights into the structure of the languages, but it does not
provide solid evidence for a unitary word notion that can be applied across
languages and that gives us a reliable way of distinguishing between mor-
phology and syntax.
5.  The word as a language-specific concept
The difficulties with a universally applicable word concept have been
known for quite a while, and many linguists have concluded that the word
cannot be defined universally, but only in a language-specific way:
	 (38)	 a.	
Bazell (1958: 35): “Now there is perhaps no unit over which there
is less agreement than the word. If there is any agreement at all,
arrive at the conclusion that an element is either a clitic or an affix, certain criteria must be
assumed to be less crucial.” But if different authors assume that different criteria are ‘less
crucial’, no agreement can be reached.
Table 1.  Nine studies that examine wordhood using test batteries
Zwicky
&
Pullum
1983
Kanerva
1987
Bresnan
&
Mchombo
1995
Ackema
&
LeSourd
1997
Monachesi
1999
Harris
2000
Milićević
2005
Lieber
&
Scalise
2006
Bickel
et
al.
2007
Free occurrence + +
External mobility and internal fixedness + + + +
Uninterruptibility + +
Non-selectivity + + + + + +
Non-coordinatability + + + + + +
Anaphoric islandhood + +
Nonextractability + +
Morphophonological idiosyncrasies + + + + +
Deviations from biuniqueness +
The indeterminacy of word segmentation    61
it is that the word has to be differently defined for each language
analysed.”
b.	
Martinet (1960: 112): “Il serait vain de chercher à définir précisément
cette notion [i.e. la notion de mot] en linguistique générale. On
peut tenter de le faire dans le cadre d’une langue donné.” [‘It would
be futile to attempt to define this notion [i.e. the word notion] in
a precise way in general linguistics. One can try to do it within a
particular language.’]
c.	
Lyons (1968: 206): “It follows from these facts that what we call
‘words’ in one language may be units of a different kind from the
‘words’ in another language.”
d.	
Wurzel (1984: 35): “Was in einer Sprache ein morphologisches Wort
ist, wird durch die einzelsprachlichen morphologischen Regular-
itäten bestimmt.” [‘The language-specific morphological regularities
determine what is a word in a language.’]
e.	
Spencer (2006: 129): “There may be clear criteria for wordhood in
individual languages, but we have no clear-cut set of criteria that can
be applied to the totality of the world’s languages. . .”
On this view, there is thus no general word concept, and the term word
potentially has as many different meanings as there are languages. The
same should apply to the terms morphology and syntax, which cannot be
defined in any other way than in terms of some word concept.
	 On such a view, the claim that “all languages have words” (Radford
et al. 1999: 145) would be interpretable only in the weaker sense that
“all languages have a unit which falls between the minimal sign and the
phrase” (Bauer 2000: 255).21
But this claim is very weak indeed if it is not
specified what criteria can be used for identifying such a unit. In fact, given
the criteria in Section 3, it is clear that in most languages one could set
up a fairly large number of such intermediate units if one wanted. One
21 
Incidentally, another view for which the word notion ends up being non-universal is the
idea that the cross-linguistic word concept is not applicable to all languages. For example,
Hockett (1944: 255) claims that “there are no words in Chinese”, van Wyk (1968: 557) claims
that “French is an example of a language with fairly low overall word autonomy, whereas
the word autonomy of English, Dutch and German is comparatively high in general”, and
Mugdan (1994: 2552) says that “some languages evidently lack a word level altogether”
(cf. also Milewski 1951: 248–249). These authors thus seem to assume the word as a cross-
linguistically valid category, but as a category that not all languages need to instantiate. This
would entail that only some languages have a syntax–morphology distinction, while other
languages lack it. This idea is weaker than the widespread assumption criticized throughout
this article (that all languages have such a distinction), but to be viable, this approach would
still have to come up with a way of identifying words consistently across languages.
62   Martin Haspelmath
might posit units such as (complex) stems, words with level-I  affixes,
words-plus,22
words with type-III incorporation,23
clitic groups, tight com-
pounds, loose compounds, tightly knit phrases, configurational phrases,
non-configurational phrases, and many further units for which new terms
would have to be made up. Some of these will be very well motivated, some
less well. The basic problem remains the same: The units are defined in a
language-specific way and cannot be equated across languages, and there is
no reason to give special status to a unit called ‘word’. What we can assert
with great confidence is that all languages have different degrees of tight-
ness of minimal sign combinations. There is no language that is both thor-
oughly isolating and thoroughly non-configurational: isolating languages
tend to be highly configurational, and non-configurational languages tend
to be highly synthetic. This generalization is highly significant, as it is not
difficult to imagine a language in which all sign combinations are equally
tight. The organization of human languages in terms of different degrees of
tightness of sign combinations is quite possibly an innate design feature of
language. But this does not mean that ‘word’, ‘morphology’ and ‘syntax’ are
useful concepts for general linguistics.
6.  The word as a fuzzy concept
Another way of addressing the problems with defining the concept of
morphosyntactic word is to posit a fuzzy (or ‘prototypical’, or ‘canonical’)
concept of word. Something like this has been done implicitly by many
authors who have written on the issue. Already Sweet (1913) regarded the
English articles the and a as ‘half-words’, and Wurzel (1984: 36) revives
this under the heading of ‘semi-word’ (his examples are cases intermedi-
ate between traditional words and phrases, such as Icelandic hund-s-ins
[dog-GEN-DEF-GEN] ‘the dog’s’, with internal case agreement, or English
the Queen of England’s mother, with word-like edge-located inflection).
A few quotations that explicitly admit fuzzy boundaries between words
and phrases, or words (clitics) and affixes are given in (39).
	 (39)	 a.	
Bloomfield (1933: 181): “many forms lie on the border-line between
bound forms and words, or between words and phrases; it is impos-
sible to make a rigid distinction . . .”
22 
cf. Kageyama (2001).  23 
cf. Mithun (1984).
The indeterminacy of word segmentation    63
b.	
Lyons (1968: 204): “even if [the English article] is taken to be a word,
it is not so ‘fully’ a word as other elements to which all the relevant
criteria apply.”
c.	
Mel’čuk (1993: 183): “puisque le concept [vague] d’autonomie . . .
est sou-jacent au concept de mot-forme, nous pouvons en déduire
que ce dernier est vague lui aussi” [‘since the [vague] concept of
autonomy underlies the concept of word-form, we can deduce that
the latter is also vague’]
d.	
Mugdan (1994): “the differences [between clitic and affix] are
gradual and clear dividing lines are not easy to draw.”
e.	
Aikhenvald (2002: 43): “These parameters provide us with a scalar
definition of clitics: each prosodically deficient morpheme occupies
a particular place within a multidimensional continuum, from a
fully bound to a fully independent morpheme.”
If ‘word’ is a fuzzy concept, it might still be universal, i.e. the conclusions
drawn by the authors cited earlier in (38) might be premature. However, if
‘word’ is a fuzzy concept, the consequence is that the difference between
words and phrases cannot be modelled by positing two separate compo-
nents of grammar, morphology and syntax. One could continue using the
notions of morphology and syntax, but as fuzzy concepts.
	 In order to show that a fuzzy concept of word is theoretically significant,
one would have to demonstrate that grammatical units are not randomly
distributed over the continuum between fully bound and fully indepen-
dent units (cf. Aikhenvald’s conception in (39e)), but that they cluster
significantly. Figure 1 schematizes two different hypothetical situations that
are both compatible with a fuzzy word concept and a continuum view of
the morphology–syntax distinction.
	 In the first hypothetical situation (clustering distribution), there are
three clearly discernible clusters: If the dimension along which the units
differ (the boundness scale) can be quantified, the clustering can be dem-
onstrated by statistical techniques. There are intermediate cases between
the clusters of affixes, clitics, and independent words, but these are few and
are just exceptions to the rule.
	 In the second hypothetical situation (random distribution), the units
are randomly distributed over the boundness scale. One can arbitrarily
decide to call certain segments of the scale ‘affixes’, ‘clitics’ and ‘indepen-
dent words’ (cf. the vertical lines in Figure 1B), but since the units do not
cluster, such a subdivision would have no theoretical significance (it might
64   Martin Haspelmath
have practical significance, of course, e.g. for orthographic conventions).
One could just as easily subdivide the continuum into two, four, or five
named segments.
	 Both of the hypothetical distributions in Figure 1 could be described
as entailing a fuzzy word concept. The authors cited in (39) presumably
assumed the clustering distribution rather than the random distribution,
but we do not have the empirical evidence yet to show that a clustering
actually obtains in real languages. Our intuitions that tend to favour the
clustering distribution may well be coloured by the long tradition of look-
ing at language structure in terms of spelling-defined words and clauses.
	 So this is an open question, and systematic empirical research on the
basis of a diverse range of languages is needed before we can make a judge-
ment. We should also be open to the possibility that other kinds of clusters,
e.g. ‘affixoid’, ‘clitic group’, ‘tight phrases’, or ‘stems’ will turn out to be more
significant than the word clustering. This would have the consequence
that the primary division within morphosyntax would not be between
morphology and syntax, but along other lines. The question is an empirical
one, and should be approached in this way,24
rather than a priori.
24 
Unfortunately, an empirical test is difficult, because the nature of the population to be
sampled is not entirely clear, and it is not clear how the boundness scale should be quanti-
fied. The population from which we want to test a sample is the set of grammatical units
in the world’s languages, but this is of course an open-ended set. Single-morph affixes and
clitics are relatively straightforward (because they constitute a finite, relatively small set),
but we also need to compare these to larger units (word-level and phrase-level), and the
elements of these larger units are not a closed class. The boundness scale could be quantified
by applying some of the criteria of Section 3, but it is quite unclear how these criteria should
be weighted, whether all of them are relevant, and what other criteria might be important.
Different linguists will have very different views. Aikhenvald calls the continuum ‘multidi-
mensional’ (cf. 39e), and finding clusters in a multidimensional space is even more difficult.
A.  Clustering distribution
have to demonstrate that grammatical units are not randomly distributed over the
"continuum" between "fully bound" and "fully independent" units (cf. Aikhenvald's
conception in (39e)), but that they cluster significantly. Figure 1 schematizes two
different hypothetical situations that are both compatible with a fuzzy word concept
and a continuum view of the morphology-syntax distinction.
Figure 1: Clustering vs. random distribution of grammatical units
A. Clustering distribution
. . . . . . .............. . .. . . . . . . .. ............ .. . . . .. . . ...... ........... .. . . . .
affixes clitics independent words
B. Random distribution
. .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . ..
affixes | clitics | independent words
In the first hypothetical situation (clustering distribution), there are three clearly
discernible clusters: If the dimension along which the units differ (the boundness
scale) can be quantified, the clustering can be demonstrated by statistical techniques.
There are intermediate cases between the clusters of affixes, clitics, and independent
words, but these are few and are just exceptions to the rule.
In the second hypothetical situation (random distribution), the units are randomly
distributed over the boundness scale. One can arbitrarily decide to call certain segments
of the scale "affixes", "clitics" and "independent words" (cf. the vertical lines in Figure
1B), but since the units do not cluster, such a subdivision would have no theoretical
significance (it might have practical significance, of course, e.g. for orthographic
conventions). One could just as easily subdivide the continuum into two, four, or five
named segments.
Both of the hypothetical distributions in Figure 1 could be described as entailing a
fuzzy word concept. The authors cited in (39) presumably assumed the clustering
	 affixes		 clitics		 independent words
B.  Random distribution
"continuum" between "fully bound" and "fully independent" units (cf. Aikhenvald's
conception in (39e)), but that they cluster significantly. Figure 1 schematizes two
different hypothetical situations that are both compatible with a fuzzy word concept
and a continuum view of the morphology-syntax distinction.
Figure 1: Clustering vs. random distribution of grammatical units
A. Clustering distribution
. . . . . . .............. . .. . . . . . . .. ............ .. . . . .. . . ...... ........... .. . . . .
affixes clitics independent words
B. Random distribution
. .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . ..
affixes | clitics | independent words
In the first hypothetical situation (clustering distribution), there are three clearly
discernible clusters: If the dimension along which the units differ (the boundness
scale) can be quantified, the clustering can be demonstrated by statistical techniques.
There are intermediate cases between the clusters of affixes, clitics, and independent
words, but these are few and are just exceptions to the rule.
In the second hypothetical situation (random distribution), the units are randomly
distributed over the boundness scale. One can arbitrarily decide to call certain segments
of the scale "affixes", "clitics" and "independent words" (cf. the vertical lines in Figure
1B), but since the units do not cluster, such a subdivision would have no theoretical
significance (it might have practical significance, of course, e.g. for orthographic
conventions). One could just as easily subdivide the continuum into two, four, or five
named segments.
Both of the hypothetical distributions in Figure 1 could be described as entailing a
fuzzy word concept. The authors cited in (39) presumably assumed the clustering
	 affixes	 |	 clitics	 |	 independent words
Figure 1.  Clustering vs. random distribution of grammatical units
The indeterminacy of word segmentation    65
7.  Consequences of the indeterminacy of word segmentation
That the word is difficult to define has long been recognized; quotations
such as those in (40) abound in the literature.
	 (40)	 a.	
Jespersen (1924: 92): “What is a word? and what is one word? These
are very difficult problems. . .”
b.	 Langacker (1972: 37): “The word is a difficult notion to define.”
c.	
Matthews (1991: 208): “There have been many definitions of the
word, and if any had been successful I would have given it long ago,
instead of dodging the issue until now.”
However, linguists have generally shied away from the seemingly unavoid-
able conclusion:
	 (41)	
Linguists have no good basis for identifying words across languages,
and hence no good basis for a general distinction between syntax and
morphology as parts of the language system.
One occasionally finds statements such as Garvin’s “It is not so certain
that we know how to isolate words, and hence how to separate morphol-
ogy from syntax” (1954: 345), or Weber’s “morphology and syntax are not
distinct . . . word boundaries and morpheme boundaries should not be
distinguished” (1983: 178),25
but the vast majority of linguists have contin-
ued doing business as usual.26
	 I maintain that at least three practical consequences follow from the
recognition of the indeterminacy of word segmentation:
25 
Schwegler’s (1990: 45) negative conclusion is even more explicit, though he does not
mention the morphology–syntax division:
After generations of 19th- and 20th-century linguists had taken the ‘word’ largely for granted, struc-
turalists set out to define what in popular as well as in scientific circles was regarded as the basic unit
of speech . . . this lively discussion eventually led to the now generally accepted conclusion that (a) the
‘word’ cannot be defined by a single (or for that matter, multiple) common denominator, and (b) not
all segments of speech are ‘words’ in the proper sense of the term.
However, I do not think that this conclusion was ever ‘generally accepted’ (certainly not in
the 1980s).
26 
Jacobs (forthcoming) (whose paper came to my attention after this article had been com-
pleted) arrives at the same negative conclusion on the basis of German data, but at the end
of his paper, he notes that for many purposes, doing business as usual is not problematic.
I agree, but here I focus on those theoretical concerns for which the negative conclusions
do have significant repercussions.
66   Martin Haspelmath
	 (42)	 a.	
Linguists who believe that words exist as a cross-linguistically
identifiable category should try to find ways of identifying words
consistently.
b.	
Linguists who are not committed should stop worrying about the
morphology–syntax division.
c.	
Linguists of either category should be very careful with claims that
presuppose the word concept.
Inaddition,ofcourse,comparativelinguistsshouldtrytodetermineempiri-
cally whether the various word criteria yield a clustering distribution, as
discussed in Section 6, but this is not as urgent as (42a–c), because clusters
might be found in all kinds of places in languages where no traditional
notions lead us to suspect them. The really serious problem resulting from
the indeterminacy of word segmentation is that linguists often presuppose
the word concept and the morphology–syntax division, and even try to
use it for explanatory purposes. Some of the contexts in which the word
as a cross-linguistic category and/or the syntax–morphology division are
presupposed are listed in (43).
	 (43)	 a.	
the Lexical Integrity Hypothesis (e.g. Bresnan & Mchombo 1995; see
Section 8 below)
b.	
claims about the nature of creole languages (e.g. McWhorter 2001,
2005, referring to lack of inflectional morphology)
c.	
claims about variable complexity of language structure (e.g. Samp-
son 2009)
d.	
claims about an analyticity preference in Second Language Acquis-
tion (e.g. Klein & Perdue 1997: 311)
e.	
claims about morphological change driving syntactic change (e.g.
Lightfoot, ed. 2002)
f.	
claims about a general preference for suffixing over prefixing (e.g.
Greenberg 1957, Bybee et al. 1990)
g.	
typological claims about affixal vs. periphrastic marking in typology,
e.g. Dahl & Velupillai (2005, on inflectional future tense), Iggesen
(2005, on number of inflectional cases), Dryer (2005c, on pronom-
inal possessive affixes)
All of these claims are problematic as they can be tested only with a good
definition of morphosyntactic wordhood. Some of them may well turn out
to be correct in some version, once the nature of the claim has been clari-
fied, and others may turn out to be quite illusory. For example, Sampson
(2009: 3) cites the huge number of inflected verbal forms in Archi (about
1.5 million according to Kibrik 1998) as an evident example of ‘complex-
The indeterminacy of word segmentation    67
ity’, but he does not say that the vast majority of these inflected forms
are completely regular and predictable by rule. Any isolating language of
course has a vast number of possible constructs involving verbs and vari-
ous functional elements (negation, tense, aspect, mood, subject and object
pronouns, etc.), resulting in exactly the same complexity, differing primar-
ily in spelling. Speakers of contemporary Western European languages
traditionally find languages with rich morphology such as Latin difficult,
and languages with even longer words such as Turkish or Archi look even
more forbidding, but this impression should not be confused with the idea
that Turkish or Archi are in some general sense more complex than Span-
ish or Swedish. Similarly, creole languages are often thought of as lacking
inflectional morphology (McWhorter 2001, 2005), and it is clear that they
generally lack the inflectional affixes of their lexifiers. But creole verbs are
typically associated with preverbal tense-aspect, modality and polarity
markers (cf. (44) from Seychelles Creole; Susanne Michaelis, p.c.) which
might well be prefixes rather than separate words.
	(44)	 Nou pa ti pe manz.
we NEG PST PROG eat
‘We were not eating.’
8.  The notion of lexical integrity
In structuralist linguistics of the first half of the 20th century, the word
concept was downplayed by many theoretically oriented linguists (cf.
Schwegler 1990: 45, Albrecht 2002). In American structuralism, “the
traditional word was not part of the final formal analysis” (Robins 2002:
143), and the European structuralists Charles Bally and André Martinet
used the term ‘word’ only in inverted commas (Matthews 2002: 266).
This view was inherited by early generative grammar, which also made no
distinction between syntax and morphology. But since the 1970s, the idea
of a syntax–morphology distinction became prevalent again in generative
circles, under the heading of ‘lexicalism’ or ‘lexical integrity’. This was not
prompted by any progress in defining the word in universal terms; on the
contrary, such attempts were largely given up.27
But linguists now focused
27 
Characteristically, Langacker (1972) was the last prominent linguistics textbook that
included a substantial discussion of the word concept (pp. 36–55). Later textbooks of
68   Martin Haspelmath
on some of the differences in behaviour between word parts and phrasal
elements, and soon the idea that there is a principled distinction between
syntactic and morphological regularities was formulated and met with
widespread acceptance. The Lexical Integrity Hypothesis was variously
formulated as in (45).
	 (45)	 a.	 Lapointe (1980: 8; Generalized Lexicalist Hypothesis)
	 No syntactic rule can refer to elements of morphological structure.
b.	
Selkirk (1982: 70; Word Structure Autonomy Condition)
	
No deletion or movement transformation may involve categories of
both W[ord]-structure and S[entence]-structure.
c.	 Anderson (1992: 84; Lexicalist Hypothesis)
	
The syntax neither manipulates nor has access to the internal
structure of words.
The problem with such formulations is that in the absence of a full charac-
terization of syntax (or S-structure) and morphology (or word), they are
partly circular (cf. Sproat 1988: 298–299, Julien 2002: 28). If we found that
something that is written as one word has parts that can be manipulated in
the sense of being ellipted in coordination, fronted by topicalization rules,
extended by additional modifiers, etc., then we would probably conclude
that the item is not in fact one word. The claims in (45) thus come dan-
gerously close to saying that linguistic sign combinations that cannot be
manipulated by syntactic rules cannot be manipulated by syntactic rules.
In any event, the empirical import of such claims is not particularly clear.28
	 Another way of stating the notion of lexical integrity that avoids the
danger of circularity is the claim that “the principles that regulate the
internal structure of words are quite different from those that govern
sentence structure” (Katamba 1993: 217), or that “words are built out of dif-
ferent structural elements and by different principles of composition than
syntactic phrases” (Bresnan & Mchombo 1995: 181). But such claims are
very weak: While it may be that words and phrases are ‘different’ in some
general linguistics or of syntax simply presuppose that words exist as a universally valid
category (though morphology textbooks often include a discussion of the word concept).
28 
Moreover, there is a large amount of potential counterevidence to lexical integrity that
has been discussed in the literature; cf. Lieber & Scalise (2006) and Booij (2009) for recent
reviews from a sympathetic perspective, and Julien (2002: ch. 1) for a critical assessment
from a minimalist perspective. Booij (2009: 97) states that “the word remains an essential
unit for stating regularities” but does not try to argue for this position.
The indeterminacy of word segmentation    69
ways, they are also very similar in many ways, and there are also striking
differences between different kinds of words, as well as differences between
different kinds of phrases. That the distinction between words and phrases
should have a special status is not warranted by the evidence that has been
presented in favour of lexical integrity.
9.  What does this mean in practice?
Talking about words is deeply entrenched in linguists’ habits, and a fre-
quently asked question is: How do we go about our everyday grammatical
analysis (e.g. as field linguists, as computational linguists, as psycholin-
guists) if we cannot rely on theoretical morphologists and syntacticians
to provide us with a well-motivated universally applicable distinction
between morphology and syntax, between words and phrases?
	 There are two answers, a simpler one and a more complex, more
advanced one. The simpler answer is that nothing needs to change in our
way of talking about our entities, as long as we change our way of thinking
about them. We can simply continue calling an expression like book+s a
word, and expressions like the+book a phrase, as long as we do not thereby
imply that words and phrases necessarily have different properties (in
particular, fundamentally different properties). After all, we continue using
the usual spelling in many cases, simply because it is convenient, without
implying that the orthographic representation has any theoretical status.
A word would then simply be any linguistic expression that has a space
before it and after it and no space in the middle, either in the conventional
spelling or (for unwritten languages or languages with no spacing in the
spelling) in the linguist’s transcription. This would solve most of the prac-
tical problems of descriptive linguistics, because in the great majority of
concrete research contexts, the kinds of issues discussed in this article are
not relevant anyway.
	 But in cross-linguistic and general contexts (such as those of (43)),
the issues are relevant, and here we need a more complex and advanced
answer. I  propose that for the purposes of cross-linguistic comparison,
we limit ourselves to more primitive concepts that are readily definable in
cross-linguistic terms (i.e. to comparative concepts, cf. Haspelmath 2010),
such as those in (46).
70   Martin Haspelmath
	 (46)	 a.	 formative: 	
a minimal coherent set of phonological features
that plays a role in the language system (= a
minimal sign)
b.	 morph:	 a formative that biuniquely expresses a meaning
c.	 root:	 a morph with a concrete meaning
d.	 construct: 	
a set of formatives that together play a role in the
language system
e.	 bound construct: 	
a construct that cannot occur on its own as a
complete utterance
f.	 free construct:	
a construct that may occur on its own as a
complete utterance
Thus, all words and phrases are constructs that can be decomposed into
their component constructs until the level of formatives is reached. All
clitics and affixes are bound constructs, and all lexical items have citation
forms that are free constructs. Many more of these cross-linguistically
applicable comparative concepts can easily be created (separatable con-
structs, coordinatable constructs, etc.).
	 These definitions are not without problems either, of course, but they
do not appeal to language-specific properties, and they avoid the danger
of bias from our writing habits. Reformulating cross-linguistic generaliza-
tions in terms of truly comparative concepts such as those in (46) will not
be an easy task, but in view of the difficulties with the traditional word
concept, there is probably no alternative to it.
	 To conclude this section, let me illustrate the practical consequences by
answering four questions that one reviewer asked and that some readers
may wonder about:
	(47)	 Question:	
If there are no words, how can children have a one-word
stage in talking? (why not a one-stem stage?)
Answer:	
The ‘one-word stage’ is probably really a ‘one-root stage’, but
this probably differs from language to language, and even
from child to child.
	(48)	 Question:	
If there are no words, how can those languages which use an
orthography in which word-boundaries are marked agree on
where they belong?
Answer:	
‘Words’ as language-specific units are often unproblematic
(Section 5), but the criteria employed in different languages
are often very different. And the rules may be idiosyncratic,
without clear relation to the language system (Section 2.3).
The indeterminacy of word segmentation    71
	(49)	 Question:	 If there are no words, how come dictionaries are so useful?
Answer:	
Dictionaries generally list the roots and unpredictable morph
combinations of a language, i.e. words and many kinds of
phraseological units. The idea that dictionaries are just lists of
‘words’ is too simplistic anyway.
	(50)	 Question:	
If there are no words, what is a word-for-word translation?
Answer:	
Morpheme-by-morpheme translations and phrase-by-phrase
translations are also often practiced, and in many cases they
are more useful than word-for-word translations. Words do
not have special status in literal translations.
10. Conclusion
In the closing session of the 6th International Congress of Linguists, held in
Paris in 1948, congress president Joseph Vendryes remarked that modern
linguistics was in a crisis, and that linguists were not even in agreement on
what a word is, one of the fundamental concepts of their object of studies (cf.
Togeby 1949: 97). In this article, I do not offer a more optimistic conclusion
on the issue of defining the word, but I do not think that this is an expression
of a crisis of our field. On the contrary, as long as we are biased by writing
habits and by the structures of a few languages that happen to be very well
studied and widely known, our field is not fully mature. The very search
for a definition of the concept ‘word’ seems to be guided by the unstated
presupposition that something like the word must exist in languages, just
as it exists in alphabetic writing. But a scientific approach to language struc-
ture should imply that we do not take any traditional concept for granted,
and that we posit only those categories that we can argue for in describing
language structure. Moreover, we should describe each language in its own
terms, rather than assume aprioristically that a concept that has been found
useful for one language must also be applicable for another language.
	 I conclude from the arguments presented in this article that there is no
definition of ‘word’that can be applied to any language and that would yield
consistent results that are in accord with our writing habits. This is not a
problem for descriptive (i.e. language-specific) linguistics, because ad hoc
notions can be easily created for each particular language, and often it will
be possible to define ‘word in language X’ in such a way that the spelling is
predicted by the definition.
72   Martin Haspelmath
	 However, we also want to compare languages with respect to issues such
as analyticity and syntheticity, complexity, and types of morphological
marking (e.g. cumulative vs. separatist encoding, stem alternation vs. pure
concatenation). For such questions, we need comparative concepts that are
universally applicable (cf. Section 9). This is an important task for future
research.
	 The conclusion that we do not know what words are also means that
we have no good basis for a morphology–syntax distinction. The part of
(the study of) language structure that deals with sign combinations can
be called morphosyntax, and for theoretical purposes this is currently best
viewed as a unitary domain.
References
Ackerman, Farrell & LeSourd, Philip. 1997. Toward a lexical representation of
phrasal predicates. In Alex Alsina, Joan Bresnan & Peter Sells, eds. Complex
predicates. Stanford: CSLI, 67–106.
Aguado, Miquel & Grzegorz Dogil. 1989. Clitics in lexical phonology. Linguistische
Berichte 120: 99–116.
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y. 2002. Typological parameters of clitics, with special
reference to Tariana. In R. M. W. Dixon & Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald, eds. Word:
A cross-linguistic typology. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1–41.
Albrecht, Jörn. 2002. Das Wort im europäischen Strukturalismus. In D. Alan
Cruse, Franz Hundsnurscher, Michael Job & Peter Rolf Lutzeier, eds. Lexi-
cology: An international handbook on the nature and structure of words and
vocabularies, vol. I. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter, 138–143.
Anderson, Stephen. 1992. A-morphous morphology. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.
Anderson, Stephen R., Lea Brown, Alice Gaby & Jacqueline Lecarme. 2006. Life
on the edge: There’s morphology there after all. Lingue e Linguaggio 1: 1–16.
Aronoff, Mark. 1994. Morphology by itself. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Aronoff, Mark & Kirsten Fudeman. 2005. What is morphology? Oxford: Blackwell.
Atoyebi, Joseph Dele. 2010. A reference grammar of Oko. Cologne: Rüdiger Köppe
Verlag.
Aydemir, Yasemin. 2004. Are Turkish preverbal bare nouns syntactic arguments?
Linguistic Inquiry 35: 465–474.
Bally, Charles. 1913 [1965]. Le langage et la vie. Geneva: Droz.
Bauer, Laurie. 1988. Introducing linguistic morphology. Edinburgh: Edinburgh Uni-
versity Press.
The indeterminacy of word segmentation    73
Bauer, Laurie. 2000. Word. In Geert E. Booij, Christian Lehmann & Joachim
Mugdan, eds. Morphology: An international handbook on inflection and word-
formation, vol. 1, 247–257. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
Bauer, Laurie & Rodney Huddleston. 2002. Lexical word-formation. In Rodney
Huddleston & Geoffrey K. Pullum et al. The Cambridge grammar of the English
language. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1621–1721.
Bazell, C. E. 1958. Linguistic typology: An inaugural lecture delivered on 26 February
1958. London: School of Oriental and African Studies.
Bermúdez-Otero, Ricardo & John Payne. Forthcoming. There are no special
clitics. To appear in: Alexandra Galani, Glyn Hicks & George Tsoulas, eds.
Morphology and its interfaces. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Bickel, Balthasar, Goma Banjade, Martin Gaenszle, Elena Lieven, Netra Paudyal,
Ichchha Purna Rai, Manoj Rai, Novel Kishor Rai & Sabine Stoll. 2007. Free
prefix ordering in Chintang. Language 83: 43–73.
Bisetto, Antonietta & Sergio Scalise. 1999. Compounding: Morphology and/or
syntax? In Lunella Mereu, ed. 1999. Boundaries of morphology and syntax.
Amsterdam: Benjamins, 31–48.
Blevins, Juliette. 2001. Nhanda: An aboriginal language of Western Australia.
Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press.
Bloomfield, Leonard. 1933. Language. New York: Holt.
Boas, Franz. 1911. Introduction. In Franz Boas, ed. Handbook of American Indian
languages, part 1 (Bureau of American Ethnology, Bulletin 40). Washington:
Government Printing Office, 1–83.
Booij, Geert. 1985. Coordination reduction in complex words: A case for prosodic
phonology. In Harry van der Hulst & Norval Smith, eds. Advances in nonlinear
phonology, vol. 7. Dordrecht: Foris, 143–160.
Booij, Geert. 2009. Lexical integrity as a morphological universal: A construc-
tionist view. In Sergio Scalise, Elisabetta Magni & Antonietta Bisetto, eds.
Universals of language today. Berlin: Springer, 83–100.
Booij, Geert. 2010. Construction morphology. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Börjars, Kersti. 1998. Feature distribution in Swedish noun phrases. Oxford: Black-
well.
Bowe, Heather J. 1990. Categories, constituents, and constituent order in Pitjantjat-
jara: An aboriginal language of Australia. London: Routledge.
Bresnan, Joan. 1974. On the position of certain clause-particles in phrase structure.
Linguistic Inquiry 5, 614–619.
Bresnan, Joan & Sam M. Mchombo. 1995. The lexical integrity principle: Evidence
from Bantu. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 13: 181–254.
Broadwell, George Aaron. 2008. Turkish suspended affixation is lexical sharing. In
Miriam Butt & Tracy Holloway King, eds. Proceedings of the LFG08 Conference.
Stanford: CSLI Publications. http://www.csli-publications.stanford.edu/.
74   Martin Haspelmath
Bybee, Joan L., William Pagliuca & Revere D. Perkins. 1990. On the asymmetries
in the affixation of grammatical material. In William Croft, Keith Denning &
Suzanne Kemmer, eds. Studies in typology and diachrony: Papers presented to
Joseph H. Greenberg on his 75th Birthday, 1–42. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Chaves, Rui P. 2008. Linearization-based word-part ellipsis. Linguistics and Phi-
losophy 31: 261–307.
Coseriu, Eugenio. 1964. Pour une sémantique diachronique structurale. Travaux
de linguistique et de littérature 2: 139–186.
Dahl, Östen & Viveka Velupillai. 2005. The future tense. In Martin Haspelmath,
Matthew S. Dryer, David Gil & Bernard Comrie, eds. The world atlas of lan-
guage structures. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Di Sciullo, Anne Marie & Edwin Williams. 1987. On the definition of word. Cam-
bridge: MIT Press.
Dixon, R. M. W. 1977. Some phonological rules of Yidiɲ. Linguistic Inquiry 8: 1–34.
Dixon,R.M.W.&AlexandraY.Aikhenvald.2002.Word:Atypologicalframework.
In R. M. W. Dixon & Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald, eds. Word: A cross-linguistic
typology. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1–41.
Dryer, Matthew S. 2005a. Order of genitive and noun. In Martin Haspelmath,
Matthew S. Dryer, David Gil & Bernard Comrie, eds. The world atlas of lan-
guage structures. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 350–353.
Dryer, Matthew S. 2005b. Order of adposition and noun phrase. In Martin
Haspelmath, Matthew S. Dryer, David Gil & Bernard Comrie, eds. The world
atlas of language structures. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 346–349.
Dryer, Matthew S. 2005c. Position of pronominal possessive affixes. In Martin
Haspelmath, Matthew S. Dryer, David Gil & Bernard Comrie, eds. The world
atlas of language structures. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 234–237.
Erdal, Marcel. 2007. Group inflexion, morphological ellipsis, affix suspension,
clitic sharing. In M. M. Jocelyne Fernandez-Vest, ed. Combat pour les langues
du monde: hommage à Claude Hagège. Paris: L’Harmattan, 177–189.
Evans, Nicholas, Janet Fletcher & Belinda Ross. 2008. Big words, small phrases:
Mismatches between pause units and the polysynthetic word in Dalabon.
Linguistics 46: 89–129.
Faarlund, Jan Terje. 2009. On the history of definiteness marking in Scandinavian.
Journal of Linguistics 45: 617–639.
Fuhrhop, Nanna. 2007. Zwischen Wort und Syntagma: Zur grammatischen Fund-
ierung der Getrennt- und Zusammenschreibung. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Fukushima, Kazuhiko. 1999. Bound morphemes coordination and bracketing
paradox. Journal of Linguistics 35: 297–320.
Fulmer, S. Lee. 1990. Dual-position affixes from Afar: An argument for phono-
logically driven morphology. In Aaron I. Halpern, ed. WCCFL 9. Stanford:
CSLI, 189–203.
The indeterminacy of word segmentation    75
Garvin, Paul L. 1954. Delimitation of syntactic units. Language 30: 345–348.
Greenberg, Joseph H. 1957. Order of affixing: A study in general linguistics. In
Joseph Greenberg, ed. Essays in linguistics. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press, 86–94.
Gurevich, Olya. 2006. Constructional Morphology: The Georgian version. Berkeley:
Ph.D. dissertation.
Guthrie, Malcolm. 1948. Bantu word division: A new study of an old problem. (Inter-
nationalAfricanInstituteMemorandumXXII).Oxford:OxfordUniversityPress.
Haebler, Claus. 2002. Zur Etymologie von Benennungen für “Wort”: Beispiele aus
indogermanischen Sprachen Europas. In D. Alan Cruse, Franz Hundsnurscher,
Michael Job, Peter Rolf Lutzeier, eds. Lexicology: An international handbook on
the nature and structure of words and vocabularies, vol. I, Berlin: Walter de
Gruyter, 78–83.
Halpern, Aaron. 1995. On the placement and morphology of clitics. Stanford: CSLI
Publications.
Hankamer, Jorge. 1973. Unacceptable ambiguity. Linguistic Inquiry 4: 17–28.
Hankamer, Jorge. 1989. Morphological parsing and the lexicon. In William
Marslen-Wilson, ed. Lexical representation and process. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press, 392–408.
Harris, Alice C. 2000. Where in the word is the Udi clitic? Language 76: 593–616.
Harris, Alice C. 2006. Revisiting anaphoric islands. Language 82: 114–130.
Haspelmath, Martin. 1993. A grammar of Lezgian. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Haspelmath, Martin. 2000. Periphrasis. In Geert Booij, Christian Lehmann &
Joachim Mugdan, eds. Morphology: A handbook on inflection and word for-
mation, vol. 1. (Handbücher zur Sprach- und Kommunikationswissenschaft)
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 654–664.
Haspelmath, Martin. 2002. Understanding morphology. London: Arnold.
Haspelmath, Martin. 2010. Comparative concepts and descriptive categories in
crosslinguistic studies. Language 86: 663–687
Himmelmann, Nikolaus P. 2006. Prosody in language documentation. In Jost
Gippert, Nikolaus P. Himmelmann & Ulrike Mosel, eds. Essentials of language
documentation. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 163–181.
Hockett, Charles F. 1958. A course in modern linguistics. New York: MacMillan.
Hualde, José Ignacio & Jon Ortiz de Urbina, eds. 2003. A grammar of Basque
(Mouton Grammar Library). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Iggesen, Oliver. 2005. Number of cases. In Martin Haspelmath, Matthew S. Dryer,
David Gil & Bernard Comrie, eds. The world atlas of language structures.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 202–205.
Jacobs, Joachim. Forthcoming. Grammatik ohne Wörter? To appear in: Sprach-
liches Wissen zwischen Lexikon und Grammatik. (Jahrbuch des Instituts für
Deutsche Sprache). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
76   Martin Haspelmath
Jespersen, Otto. 1924. The philosophy of grammar. London: George Allen & Unwin
Ltd.
Juilland, Alphonse & Alexandra Roceric. 1972. The linguistic concept of word: Ana-
lytic bibliography. The Hague: Mouton.
Julien, Marit. 2002. Syntactic heads and word formation. New York: Oxford Uni-
versity Press.
Kabak, Barış & Irene Vogel. 2001. The phonological word and stress assignment in
Turkish. Phonology 18: 315–360.
Kabak, Barış. 2007. Turkish suspended affixation. Linguistics 45: 311–347.
Kageyama, Taro. 2001. Word plus: The intersection of words and phrases. In
Jeroen van de Weijer & Tetsuo Nishihara, eds. Issues in Japanese phonology and
morphology. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 245–276.
Kanerva, Jonni. 1987. Morphological integrity and syntax: The evidence from
Finnish possessive suffixes. Language 63: 498–521.
Katamba, Francis. 1993. Morphology. London: MacMillan.
Kenesei, István. 2007. Semiwords and affixoids: The territory between word and
affix. Acta Linguistica Hungarica 54: 263–293.
Kibrik, Aleksandr E. 1998. Archi (Caucasian-Daghestanian). In Andrew Spencer
& Arnold M. Zwicky, eds. The handbook of morphology. Oxford: Blackwell.
Klein, Wolfgang & Clive Perdue. 1997. The basic variety (or: Couldn’t natural lan-
guages be much simpler?) Second Language Research 13: 301–347.
Krámský, Jiří. 1969. The word as a linguistic unit. The Hague: Mouton.
Kroeger, Paul. 2005. Analyzing grammar: An introduction. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Langacker, Ronald W. 1972. Fundamentals of linguistic analysis. New York: Har-
court Brace Jovanovich.
Lapointe, Steven G. 1980. A theory of grammatical agreement. Amherst: Univer-
sity of Massachusetts Ph.D. dissertation.
Lapointe, Steven G. 1990. EDGE features in GPSG. Chicago Linguistic Society 26:
221–235.
Lewis, G. L. 1967. Turkish grammar. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Lieber, Rochelle & Sergio Scalise. 2006. The Lexical Integrity Hypothesis in a new
theoretical universe. Lingue e Linguaggio 6: 7–32.
Lightfoot, David W., ed. 2002. Syntactic effects of morphological change. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Luutonen, Jorma. 1997. The variation of morpheme order in Mari declension. Hel-
sinki: Suomalais-Ugrilainen Seura.
Lyons, John. 1968. An introduction to theoretical linguistics. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Martinet, André. 1960. Éléments de linguistique générale. Paris: Armand Colin.
Martinet, André. 1968. Mot et synthème. Lingua 21: 294–302.
Masini, Francesca. 2009. Phrasal lexemes, compounds and phrases: A construc-
The indeterminacy of word segmentation    77
tionist perspective. Word Structure 2: 254–271.
Mathieu-Colas, Michel 1996. Essai de typologie des noms composés français.
Cahiers de lexicologie 69: 71–125.
Matthews, Peter H. 2002. What can we conclude? In R.M.W. Dixon & Alexandra
Y. Aikhenvald eds. Word: A cross-linguistic typology. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 266–281.
Matthews, Peter H. 1972. Inflectional morphology. Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
Matthews, Peter H. 1974. Morphology. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Matthews, Peter H. 1991. Morphology. 2nd edition. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.
McWhorter, John H. 2001. The world’s simplest grammars are creole grammars.
Linguistic Typology 5: 125–166.
McWhorter, John H. 2005. Defining creole. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Meillet, Antoine. 1921 [1982]. Linguistique historique et linguistique générale.
Reprint, Paris: Champion, 1982.
Mel’čuk, Igor A. 1988. Syntactic, or lexical, zero. In Igor Mel’čuk, ed. Dependency
syntax: Theory and practice. Albany: State University of New York Press,
303–337.
Mel’čuk, Igor A. 1993. Cours de morphologie générale (théorique et descriptive).
Vol. I. Montréal: Presses de l’Université de Montréal.
Milewski, Tadeusz. The conception of the word in languages of North American
natives. Lingua Posnaniensis 3: 248–268.
Milićević, Jasmina. 2005. Clitics or affixes? On the morphological status of the
future tense markers in Serbian. In Wolfgang Dressler, Dieter Kastovsky, Oskar
E. Pfeiffer & Franz Rainer, eds. Morphology and its demarcations: Selected
papers from the 11th Morphology Meeting, Vienna, February 2004. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins, 39–52.
Miller, Philip H. 1992a. Clitics and constituents in phrase structure grammar. New
York: Garland.
Miller, Philip H. 1992b. Postlexical cliticization vs. affixation: Coordination crite-
ria. Chicago Linguistic Society 28: 382–396.
Mithun, Marianne. 1984. The evolution of noun incorporation. Language 60:
847–894.
Monachesi, Paola. 1999. A lexical approach to Italian cliticization. Stanford: CSLI
Publications.
Mugdan, Joachim. 1994. Morphological units. In R. E. Asher, ed. The encyclopedia
of language and linguistics. Oxford: Pergamon Press, 2543–2553.
Nespor, Marina & Irene Vogel. Prosodic phonology. Dordrecht: Foris.
Noyer, Rolf. 1994. Mobile affixes in Huave: Optimality and morphological well-
formedness. West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics 12: 67–82. Stanford:
CSLI.
78   Martin Haspelmath
O’Connor, Rob. 2002. Clitics and phrasal affixation in Constructive Morphology.
In Miriam Butt & Tracy Holloway King, eds. Proceedings of LFG02, National
Technical University of Athens. Stanford: CSLI Online Publications, 315–332
<http://csli-publications.stanford.edu/LFG/7/lfg02.html>.
Peterson, John. 2008. Kharia: A South Munda language. Vol. I: Grammatical analy-
sis. Osnabrück: University of Osnabrück habilitation thesis.
Pike, Kenneth L. 1967. Language in relation to a unified theory of human behavior
(Janua Linguarum, Series Maior 24). The Hague: Mouton.
Plank, Frans. 1994. Inflection and derivation. In R. E. Asher, ed. Encyclopedia of
language and linguistics. Oxford: Pergamon Press, 1671–1678.
Poser, William J. 1985. Cliticization to NP and Lexical Phonology. West Coast
Conference on Formal Linguistics 4: 262–272. Stanford: CSLI.
Postal, Paul. 1969. Anaphoric islands. Chicago Linguistic Society 5: 205–239.
Radford, Andrew, Martin Atkinson, David Britain, Harald Clahsen & Andrew
Spencer. 1999. Linguistics: An introduction. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Reichling, Anton. 1935. Het woord: Een studie omtrent de grondslag van taal en
taalgebruik. Nijmegen: Berkhout.
Robins, R. H. 2002. The word in American structuralism. In D. Alan Cruse, Franz
Hundsnurscher, Michael Job & Peter Rolf Lutzeier, eds. Lexicology: An inter-
national handbook on the nature and structure of words and vocabularies, vol. I.
Berlin: Walter de Gruyter, 138–143.
Sadock, Jerrold M. 1986. Some notes on noun incorporation. Language 62: 19–31.
Saenger, Paul. 1997. Space between words: The origins of silent reading. Stanford:
Stanford University Press.
Sampson, Geoffrey. 2009. A linguistic axiom challenged. In Geoffrey Sampson, ed.
Language complexity as an evolving variable. Oxford: Oxford University Press,
1–18.
Samvelian, Pollet. 2007. A (phrasal) affix analysis of the Persian Ezafe. Journal of
Linguistics 43: 605–645.
Sapir, Edward. 1921. Language: An introduction to the study of speech. New York:
Harcourt Brace.
Schachter, Paul & Fe T. Otanes. 1972. Tagalog reference grammar. Berkeley: Univer-
sity of California Press.
Schiering, René, Kristine A. Hildebrandt & Balthasar Bickel. 2010. The prosodic
word is not universal, but emergent. Journal of Linguistics 46: 537–771.
Schwegler, Armin. 1990. Analyticity and syntheticity: A diachronic perspective with
special reference to Romance languages. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Selkirk, Elisabeth O. 1982. The syntax of words. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Smith, George. 2000. Word remnants and coordination. In Rolf Thieroff, M. Tam-
rat, Nanna Fuhrhop & Oliver Teuber, eds. Deutsche Grammatik in Theorie und
The indeterminacy of word segmentation    79
Praxis. Tübingen: Niemeyer, 57–68.
Spencer, Andrew. 1991. Morphological theory: An introduction to word structure in
generative grammar. Oxford: Blackwell.
Spencer, Andrew. 2001. The paradigm-based model of morphosyntax. Transac-
tions of the Philological Society 99: 279–314.
Spencer, Andrew. 2004. Morphology: An overview of central concepts. In Louisa
Sadler & Andrew Spencer, eds. 2004. Projecting morphology. Stanford: CSLI
Publications, 67–109.
Spencer, Andrew. 2006. Morphological universals. In Ricardo Mairal & Juana Gil,
eds. Linguistic universals. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 101–129.
Sproat, Richard. 1988. On anaphoric islandhood. In Michael Hammond & Michael
Noonan, eds. Theoretical morphology. San Diego: Academic Press, 291–301.
Stevens, A. M. 1971. Fixed morpheme order. Linguistic Inquiry 2: 420–421.
Stump, Gregory T. 2001. Inflectional morphology: A theory of paradigm structure.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Sweet, Henry. 1913. Word, logic, and grammar. In Collected Papers of Henry Sweet.
Oxford: Clarendon, 1–33. First publ. 1875–76.
Tesnière, Lucien. 1932. Synthétisme et analytisme. In Charisteria G. Mathesio quin-
quagenario a discipulis et circuli linguistici Pragensis sodalibus oblata. Prague:
Cercle linguistique de Prague, 62–64.
Thráinsson, Höskuldur. 2007. The syntax of Icelandic. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.
Togeby, Knud. 1949 [1978]. Qu’est-ce qu’un mot? In Michael Herslund, ed. Knud
Togeby: Choix d’articles 1943–1974. Copenhagen: Akademiske Forlag, 51–65.
Trager, George L. & Henry L. Smith. 1951. An outline of English structure (Studies in
Linguistics Occasional Papers, 3). Norman, OK: Battenberg Press.
Tseng, Jesse. 2003. Phrasal affixes and French morphosyntax. In Gerhard Jäger,
Paola Monachesi, Gerald Penn & Shuly Wintner, eds. Proceedings of Formal
Grammar 2003. Vienna: Technische Universität Wien, 177–188.
van Wyk, E. B. 1968. Notes on word autonomy. Lingua 21: 543–557.
Wälchli, Bernhard. 2005. Co-compounds and natural coordination. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Ward, Gregory, Richard Sproat & Gail McKoon. 1991. A pragmatic analysis of so-
called anaphoric islands. Language 67: 439–474.
Weber, David J. 1983. The relationship of morphology and syntax: Evidence from
Quechua. Work Papers of the Summer Institute of Linguistics (University of
North Dakota) 27: 161–181.
Weinrich, Harald. 1963. Ist das Französische eine analytische oder synthetische
Sprache? Lebende Sprachen 8: 52–55.
Wurzel, Wolfgang Ullrich. 1984. Flexionsmorphologie und Natürlichkeit. Berlin:
Akademie Verlag.
80   Martin Haspelmath
Zedler, Johann Heinrich, ed. 1749. Grosses vollständiges Universal-Lexicon Aller
Wissenschafften und Künste, vol. 59: Wor–Wuq. Halle & Leipzig: Johann Hein-
rich Zedler.
Zwicky, Arnold M. 1987. Suppressing the Zs. Journal of Linguistics 23: 133–148.
Zwicky, Arnold M. 1992. Some choices in the theory of morphology. In Robert
D. Levine, ed. Formal grammar: Theory and implementation. Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 327–371.
Zwicky, Arnold M. & Geoffrey Pullum. 1983. Cliticization vs. inflection: English
n’t. Language 59: 502–513.
Author’s address:
Max-Planck-Institut für evolutionäre
Anthropologie
Deutscher Platz 6
D-04105 Leipzig, Germany
e-mail: haspelmath@eva.mpg.de
Received: 31 March 2010
Revision invited: 23 May 2010
Accepted: 25 June 2010
