CHAPTER 1
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS
1 Introduction
This chapter proposes an analysis of the syntax of a class of gerunds,1
re-
ferred to here as clausal gerunds, in which the subject can be either a PRO or
an overt DP Case-marked with accusative Case (acc-ing) (1) or with nomina-
tive Case.
(1) a. Susan worried about PRO being late for dinner.
b. Susan worried about John/him being late for dinner.
These structures yield problems for different approaches to Case and to
control, given that the position in which overt DPs can occur is taken to be
ruled out as a position where control null subjects (PRO in standard Principles
& Parameters approaches) are allowed. Conversely, the position where control
null subjects occur is ruled out by different theories as a possible position for
overt subjects. First, it is argued here that the alternation between overt and
null subjects exactly in the same context in Clausal gerunds (henceforth CGs)
can be successfully analyzed without the adoption of entirely independent
structures for the two types of CGs. This is supported by the fact that there are
no relevant empirical distinctions in their feature specification that can be
taken to be responsible for the distinction between CGs with control null
subjects vs. CGs with overt subjects.2
1
Gerunds themselves are part of a large set of structures with the morphological structure
V-ing (where V stands for a verb root) that include among others the progressive form (John is
sleeping), adjectival modifiers (an interesting person). These are outside the scope of this
book.
2
In chapter 2 I shall consider two other gerund structures: in one the subject must be PRO
(TP-defective gerunds) and in the other the subject must be lexical (gerunds as complements of
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
16
Furthermore, this analysis will account for a wide range of facts about the
distribution of CGs which have not been entirely addressed in the literature,
including for instance the fact that CGs are ungrammatical in the complement
position of passive (2a) and raising matrix verbs (see section 4). CGs are
grammatical in these clauses only if the embedded CG head moves to the
matrix subject position pied-piping the whole clause (2b):
(2) a. * John was preferred [reading a book].
b. [John reading a book] was preferred.
Three main environments in which clausal gerunds can occur will be used
for various tests of grammaticality (see e.g. Milsark 1988, Pires 1999, 2000,
2001a, Reuland 1983): complements to verbs (3a), complements to preposi-
tions (3b, c), and subject position (3d):3
(3) a. Mary favored [Bill taking care of her land].
b. Susan worried about [Mark being late for dinner].
c. Sylvia wants to find a new house without [Anna helping her].
d. [Sue showing up at the game] was a surprise to everybody.
Parallel to the CG cases I intend to consider here (1)-(3), gerunds also occur
as poss(essive)-ing constructions such as (4), where the lexical subject is
marked with genitive Case (see Chomsky 1970, Abney 1987 and references
therein):
(4) Mary’s winning the contest was a big surprise.
Although I compare CGs and poss-ing constructions below, the analysis of
poss-ing constructions is beyond the scope of this chapter, which considers
specially the CGs in (1)-(3) as empirical evidence, given the fact that they are
the only gerunds that allow an alternation between overt and null subjects.
This chapter argues that the complex alternations and restrictions on the
distribution of CGs results from the interaction between Case and Agreement
valuation, the limited possibility of A-movement out of a clausal gerund, and
convergence considerations resulting from the existence of distinct numera-
perception verbs/PVC gerunds), and there is no alternation between PRO and overt subjects in
either type of structure.
3
For some other relevant work on gerunds in English and in other languages see also Baker
1985, Battistella 1983, Borer 1990, Borgonovo 1994, Chierchia 1982, 1984, Kaiser 1999,
Munn 1991, Ross 1972, Yoon 1996.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 17
tions. Additionally, it discusses briefly the connection of the phenomena
analyzed here to possible cross-linguistic counterparts.
Section 2 discusses the structure of CGs, analyzed here as projecting a
TP/IP. This sections discusses the way in which CGs can be distinct from
poss-ing constructions (V-ing constructions whose subject is marked with
genitive Case), from regular DPs and from finite clauses. Section 3 analyzes
the behavior of null subjects in CGs (standardly analyzed as PRO). It presents
new problems for Tense/Null Case approaches to control and then proposes
that the null subject with obligatory control properties (OC) of CGs can be
effectively analyzed as the result of A-movement. As for CGs in subject
position, they show non-OC properties and their null subjects do not result
from movement. Section 4 lays out the detailed analysis that explains old and
new facts about the distribution of different CGs, showing among other cases
how their common features can account for the occurrence of either null or
overt subjects in their derivation.
2 The clause structure of Clausal Gerunds
CGs behave in most respects like clauses (see e.g. Horn 1975, Williams
1975, Reuland 1983, Kaiser 1999). Several properties distinguish CGs both
from regular DPs and from poss-ing constructions. Poss-ing constructions have
been shown to pattern with DPs in different respects (Chomsky 1970, Williams
1975, Abney 1987, Milsark 1988 among others). Abney (1987) argues that
gerunds should be re-categorized as DPs at some point in the derivation. For
the purposes of the analysis developed in sections 3 and 4, it will suffice to
treat CGs as projecting a TP in the derivation.
At least two properties apply to both CGs and poss-ing but distinguish them
from DPs, making them pattern with clauses: (i) both V-ing constructions, but
not DPs, can be modified by (VP)-adverbs (5); (ii) both V-ing constructions
can directly select for a complement (6a), which can satisfy a Case requirement
without need for of, which is required in an NP-complement (6b-c):
(5) a. [John’s/John quickly leaving] surprised everybody.
b. * [John’s quickly departure] surprised everybody.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
18
(6) a. [Mary’s/Mary revising the book] surprised everybody.
b. [Mary’s revision of the book] surprised everybody.
c. * [Mary’s revision the book] surprised everybody. 4
Despite these two properties common to both CGs and poss-ing, CGs are
different from poss-ing (and from regular DPs) but like regular clauses in
various other respects:5
(i) CGs accept certain sentential adverbs which poss-
ing and DPs do not (7); (ii) CG complements allow (long-distance) wh-
extraction, whereas poss-ing complements do not (8); (iii) the subject position
of CGs, but not that of poss-ing, can be filled with an expletive, as indicated by
the distribution of the pure expletive there (9); (iv) poss-ing are like DPs with
respect to Case assignment to their subjects, which are also assigned genitive
Case, a possibility that does not hold for CGs, in which the subject is assigned
accusative (10) or nominative Case:6
(7) Mary(*’s) probably being responsible for the accident was considered
by the DA.
(8) a. What did everyone imagine Fred(*’s) singing?
b. Who did you defend Bill(*’s) inviting?
(9) You may count on there(*’s) being a lot of trouble tonight.
4
Notice that in this respect, the V-ing constructions in (i) pattern with regular DPs, and cannot
be collapsed with CGs or with poss-ing constructions (see Chomsky 1970, Abney 1987). In
addition, contrary to CGs and poss-ing, a VP-adverbial is not possible in (ic):
(i) a. Mary’s revising of the book.
b. Mary’s quick revising of the book.
. c. * Mary’s quickly revising of the book.
5
The tests in this section are illustrated with the distinction between CGs and poss-ing, but
DPs and poss-ing pattern together regarding these tests, and differently from CGs.
6
I return in section 5 to the CGs that may license a nominative subject.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 19
(10) Mary worries about him being tired of the trip.7
Regarding (9), in many recent approaches it has been assumed that the
functional element Tense (T) needs to have its specifier position (Spec, TP)
filled by a lexical item (the Extended Projection Principle/EPP). Some
proposals (see e.g. Chomsky 1995a, 2000, 2001 and references therein)
attribute this requirement to the presence of a feature (EPP-feature) in T, which
needs to be satisfied by an element in Spec, TP. 8
If CGs are TPs, an appropri-
ate expression needs to occur in their [Spec, TP] to satisfy the EPP requirement
of their T0
.9
7
Although Abney proposes an external DP treatment for acc-ing (CGs with an accusative
overt-subject), he points out a host of other properties that distinguish acc-ing from regular
DPs and from poss-ing (which he also treats as DPs). This includes the impossibility with CGs
(but not with poss-ing/DP) of plural agreement (examples (ia-c) from Abney 1987:175):
(i) a. That John came and that Mary left bothers/ (* bother) me.
b. John coming (so often) and Mary leaving (so often) bothers/(* bother) me.
c. John’s coming and Mary’s leaving bother me.
d. Bill’s arrival and Mary’s departure bother me.
Such differences further support the structural treatment of CGs as distinct from both poss-ing
and regular DPs.
8
The EPP-feature is an attempt to make the Extended Projection Principle (Spec, TP must be
obligatorily filled) compatible with a Minimalist approach. Chomsky (2000:102, 109)
proposes that an EPP feature needs to be satisfied by merge of an XP in Spec, TP, and that it
may be present in Spec, vP and Spec, CP as well. Chomsky treats the EPP as an uninter-
pretable feature, but then apparently refers only to EPP satisfaction, instead of
checking/valuation. I use the term ‘EPP satisfaction’ simply as a neutral alternative. The
distinction between an EPP-feature and other features may become more obvious if one
considers that it can be satisfied under lexical insertion (pure merge, Chomsky 2000:103) that
does not result from movement, different from Case and φ-feature checking/valuation (but
similar to what may need to be adopted for θ-roles, if they are also treated as features, as I will
consider in section 4.1 — see other relevant references there). Much debate has taken place in
Minimalism regarding the appropriate approach to the EPP, including its potential elimination
(see fn. 9).
9
Consider also cases with expletive it, in which a contrast similar to (9) holds:
(i) I wouldn't count on it (* 's) raining tomorrow.
In different approaches that appeal to EPP requirements, besides lexical DPs and overt
expletives, empty categories such as control PRO and arbitrary control PRO can also satisfy
the EPP requirement (ii). Given this, it seems clear that the EPP is not a requirement for
phonological realization of a category in Spec, TP, although the hypothesis that it has to trigger
overt movement of a DP in the absence of an expletive (Chomsky 2000, 2001) indicates that
its satisfaction has to take place before Spell-out.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
20
In sum, CGs share several properties with regular clauses that distinguish
them from DPs and, in most cases, from poss-ing as well.10
This indicates that
they cannot be analyzed as regular DPs. Given the evidence that CGs behave
as clauses, they will be analyzed here as projecting at least up to a TP.
However, there is one general fact about the distribution of CGs that raises
a problem for a characterization of CGs as other types of clauses. Different
from regular declarative clauses but similarly to DPs and poss-ing, the CGs
under consideration here have to appear in a Case position in the course of the
derivation. This is supported by three kinds of evidence. First, the CGs I
analyze in detail in this chapter occur in Case positions, as indicated by (3)
repeated as (11) below:
(11) a. Mary favored [ Bill taking care of her land ].
b. Susan worried about [ Mark being late for dinner ].
c. Sylvia wants to find a new house without [ Anna helping her ].11
d. [ Sue showing up at the game ] was a surprise to everybody.
Second, these CGs are ungrammatical in positions that are standardly
treated as Case-less positions, such as passive clause complements (12), a
position in which only other clause types are possible (13).12
CGs are other-
wise allowed in the subject position of passive clauses and in the complement
(ii) a. Youi may count on PROi winning the game tonight.
b. PROArb arriving on time is what matters now.
See, however, Bošković 2002, Castillo, Drury & Grohmann 1999; Epstein, Pires & Seely
2005; Epstein & Seely 2006, Grohmann, Castillo & Drury 2000, Martin 1999, and references
therein for attempts to derive EPP effects from other properties of the grammar.
10
Other less marked syntactic restrictions seem to apply to the subject of a DP and the subject
of a poss-ing, but not to CGs. As the examples below indicate, CGs (ic-iic) are unlike regular
DPs (ia-iia) and poss-ing (ib-iib), in that only CGs freely allow complex subjects which have
PPs or full relative clauses as complements:
(i) a. ? The woman at the door’s books were found.
b. ? John counted on the woman at the door’s reading the instructions.
c. John counted on the woman at the door reading the instructions.
(ii) a. ? The player who struck out’s bat was found.
b. ? The fans counted on the player who struck out’s returning to the field.
c. The fans counted on the player who struck out returning to the field.
11
I address in this book only some of the properties of CGs as PP adjuncts and as absolute
clauses, although I assume they behave in major respects like CGs in verb complement
positions. See section 5 of this chapter for specific discussion about Absolute CGs.
12
Section 4 will analyze in detail the derivation of different cases that are ungrammatical due
to absence of a source of Case for the clausal gerunds.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 21
of the corresponding active sentences (14), which are taken to be standard Case
positions:
(12) a. * It was expected [Frank reading this novel].
b. * Frank was expected [ reading this novel].
(13) a. It was expected [that Frank would read this novel].
b. John was expected [ to read this novel].
(14) a. [Frank reading this book] was preferred.
b. I prefer [Frank reading the book].
Third, taking CGs to carry a Case requirement can also account for why
CGs can occur as complements to prepositions (15b), unlike finite and
infinitive clauses (15a). In this respect, CGs behave like poss-ing and DPs
(15c):
(15) a. * Mary talked about [(that) John moved out/ John to move out].
b. Mary talked about [John moving out].
c. Mary talked about [John’s moving out/ John’s move].13
There is one other context in which a distinction between CGs and finite
clauses may ultimately be the result of the Case dependency found in CGs.
This is the case of it-extraposition (i.e. extraposition in association with
expletive it). Reuland (1983) suggests that expressions that require Case
marking cannot undergo it-extraposition in English. If this is so, no expression
that needs to be assigned Case should be allowed in such contexts. Crucially,
this is born out by the fact that besides CGs, neither DPs nor poss-ing can be
it-extraposed, arguably because they are obligatorily Case marked. Along these
lines, it-extraposition is possible with finite clauses (16a), but impossible with
CGs (16b), with poss-ing (16c) and with regular DPs (16d):14
13
Notice that embedded indirect questions behave similarly to CGs and different from regular
clauses in this respect:
(i) Mary talked about [why John moved out].
14
This does not explain why it-extraposition should be impossible for Case-marked expres-
sions. Reuland (1983) proposes a possible Government & Binding account which awaits
detailed re-evaluation in the context of the Minimalist Program. An alternative account is that
the expletive it also independently needs to have a Case feature valued (see also fn. 61), and
there is no other source for Case valuation of the extraposed phrase in the relevant examples.
However, this is complicated by the fact that the restriction on it-extraposition of DPs does not
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
22
(16) a. It was tragic that Paul lost the elections.
b. *? It was tragic Paul losing the elections.
c. * It surprised me Mary’s leaving town. (Williams 1975 (76)).
d. * It surprised me Paul’s loss.
A similar pattern holds for the contrast between CGs and infinitive clauses,
since the latter are allowed in the it-extraposition context (17a), presumably
also due to the fact they do not need to satisfy a Case requirement, contrary to
CGs:
(17) a. It is impossible [ to read this book.].
b. * It is impossible [ reading this book.]. 15
extend to heavy-NP shift, raising a question whether the two are closely related phenomena. In
addition, the contrast in the text regarding it-extraposition does not extend to other construc-
tions that are distinct by the presence of an intonation break, that are more akin to
topicalization, and which are acceptable both with CGs and with regular DPs:
(i) a. It was tragic, Paul losing the elections.
b. It surprised me, Paul’s loss.
If these cases are indeed akin to topicalization, the reason why CGs are licensed here should
follow from the fact that Case-valued phrases (including CGs and regular DPs) can occur in a
topicalized position, even if it is not clear how the treatment of Case assignment/valuation
under topicalization (and in the absence of movement) can be reconciled with structural Case
valuation by a Case-valuing head.
15
Consider two further positions where the occurrence of CGs and poss-ing (together with
DPs) is accepted by most speakers, but where finite and infinitive clauses are not accepted:
subject position of interrogative questions (i) vs. (ii), and cleft focus position, (iii) vs. (iv):
(i) a. Did [Dan kissing Mary] bother her parents?
b. Did [Dan’s kissing Mary]/[the kiss] bother her parents?
(ii) a. * Did [(that) Dan kissed Mary] bother her parents?
b. * Did [(for Dan) to kiss Mary] bother her parents?
(iii) a. It was [Mary leaving town] that surprised me.
b. It was [Mary’s leaving town]/[Mary’s departure] that surprised me.
(iv) a. * It was Mary to leave town that surprised me.
b. * It was that Mary left town that surprised me.
There may be a straightforward account for why CGs, poss-ing and DPs pattern together in
these respects, and differently from finite and infinitive clauses, if only Case-marked
expressions (arguably CGs, poss-ing, DPs) can occur in the subject position of interrogative
questions and in a cleft focus position. However, further investigation is necessary regarding
this empirical restriction, also considering that the subject position of declarative clauses never
imposes a similar restriction on finite and infinitive clauses:
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 23
The Case dependency of CGs will be accounted for here by assigning to
them a Case feature that needs to be valued in the course of the derivation (or
valued, under Chomsky’s 2000, 2001 approach). However, given the empirical
difficulties summarized before for collapsing CGs with regular DPs, this book
will adopt the position that CGs with null and with overt subjects should not be
analyzed as also projecting a root DP projection, in order to explain the
complex distribution of CGs analyzed in sections 3 and 4.
Different generative accounts of CGs have assumed that they share with
finite clauses at least part of their structure. On the one hand, Abney (1987),
Milsark (1988) and Kaiser (1999) argue that these constructions project as VPs
or IPs and are (re)-categorized into an NP or a DP in the syntax, by a process
of syntactic affixation, in which -ing is affixed or adjoined to the IP/VP
projection converting it into a DP. Abney and Milsark argue that the –ing
projection is underspecified for morphological or syntactic features, and that
allows the re-categorization to take place. However, the various differences
between CGs on the one hand and DPs and poss-ing on the other hand raise
complications for a re-categorization of CGs as DPs. Furthermore, it is unclear
how a process of conversion of a syntactic projection from category X to
category Y can take place in narrow syntax, if one wants to distinguish
derivational processes of the kind found in derivational morphology (as
opposed to inflectional morphology) from operations that apply in narrow
syntax (see e.g. Chomsky 1970 for seminal discussion).16
Reuland (1983) and
(i) a. [That Dan kissed Mary] bothered her parents.
b. [(For John) to leave] is unacceptable.
16
In Abney’s (1987:223, 226) analysis, -ing in acc-ing constructions is affixed to an IP to
project a DP, but crucially for Abney, there is no D-head in acc-ing cases. Abney does not
clarify how this can be compatible with the X-bar Theory approach he adopts, based on
endocentricity of X-bar projections (Stowell 1981). Abney argues that this lack of a D head is
necessary to explain why poss-ing (a DP in his analysis) only triggers plural agreement in
coordinated structures (ii), whereas acc-ing triggers singular agreement (ia) (see also fn. 7). For
This is arguably because the latter (like finite clauses (ib)) does not carry a D-head that has the
relevant φ-features to trigger plural agreement.
(i) a. Bill arriving and Mary leaving bothers/(* bother) me.
b. That Bill arrived and that Mary left bothers/(*bother) me.
(ii) Bill’s arriving and Mary’s leaving (* bothers)/bother me.
Schueler (2004) proposed a DP-analysis of gerunds that is similar to Abney’s, but which
avoids the endocentricity violation, adopting the view that gerunds are nominalizations at
different {F}(shell) levels (Grimshaw 2000). Schueler argues that plural agreement is also
possible with CGs if there are different events at play (as opposed to a single collective event).
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
24
Johnson (1988) each present an account that dispenses with the process of
syntactic re-categorization/affixation of CGs into DPs (although these two
analyses rely heavily on the properties of Government in order to account for
the behavior of CGs, an aspect that does not come into play in the analysis I
lay out in this book). What is common to different analyses is the empirical
evidence showing that CGs always project as clauses (TPs here). Abney
(1987:173) argues that the only property acc-ing (the overt subject CGs
considered here) and noun phrases have in common is their external distribu-
tion. I take this distributional property of CGs to be dependent specifically on
their Case requirement (see also Reuland 1983), and instead of postulating a
DP projection as the root of each CG, I take their Case requirement to be
associated directly with a Case feature carried by the top projection of the CG.
What is crucial for the analysis developed in this chapter is that CGs with
overt and null-subjects display common internal syntactic properties (for
instance, they cannot be distinguished on the basis of tense, as will be seen in
section 3.1), and this is instrumental in supporting a related analysis for both.
In order to proceed with the derivation of CGs, we need to consider a possi-
ble hypothesis regarding the feature specification of their heads, argued here to
be at least T(ense).17
Some relevant background is in order. Here are some
properties of an account of certain CGs proposed by Reuland (1983):
A DP-analysis of CGs would not be necessarily incompatible with the main tenets of the
analysis of CGs with null subjects and with overt subjects that I focus on in this book,
provided a revised DP-analysis of overt-subject CGs can be compatible with the analysis of
null-subject CGs as well (1a).
17
T0
will be taken to carry any tense or inflectional features that the CG may have, given the
simplified approach adopted here, in which no separate AgrP is assumed below or above TP to
account for the empirical facts dealt with in this book (see also Chomsky 1995a: chapter 4,
2000).
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 25
(18) a. There are 2 kinds of clauses: tensed or infinitival, with a distinctive
marking for each realized on an inflectional head.
b. Tensedness and finiteness are separate parameters.18
c. Finiteness is realized by AGR − the agreement marker − which is
syntactically present in the Infl of a finite clause and instrumental
in the assignment of Case to the subject.
d. AGR is nominal (its feature matrix is simply [N]).
e. CGs are taken by Reuland to be tenseless finite clauses, thus
[–TENSE, +AGR].19
f. The element -ing in CGs is a nominal agreement marker appearing
in Infl that realizes the properties usually associated with AGR.
For Reuland, AGR assigns Case by transmission. This means that AGR
itself does not inherently have the property that allows it to assign Case, but it
can receive this property from another element and as a consequence is able to
assign Case. In tensed clauses the presence of a [+tense] feature causes AGR
to be assigned Case (given AGR’s nominal behavior); this Case can then be
transmitted to the subject.20
Reuland then argues that clausal gerunds are
tenseless, and that there is no [+tense] feature in them to assign Case to AGR.
However, there is one crucial problem specifically with this approach to
tense in Reuland’s analysis. Contrary to what Reuland argues, CGs are in fact
[+tense], as clearly shown by their ability to license a temporal interpretation
that is independent from the matrix clause (19) (as I initially proposed in Pires
2001c). To avoid this problem, I argue that the mechanism by which clausal
gerunds depend on an outside functional head to license an overt subject is not
determined by their being [−tense], which they are not.
(19) a. Mary worried yesterday about [Paul coming to dinner tonight].
b. Mary worried yesterday about [ coming to dinner tonight].21
18
The idea of tensedness and finiteness as separate parameters goes back to George & Kornfilt
1981, Rouveret 1979 and Zubizarreta 1980.
19
Except for while -ing clauses, as argued by Reuland (1983). Notice that Reuland proposes
that CGs are identical to inflected infinitives in Portuguese, given their [+AGR] specification
(see Raposo 1987, Pires 2001a, c). However, see problems below for his treatment of CGs as
[–tense].
20
Reuland’s (1983) structural relations were also defined primarily in terms of Government. I
put aside the evaluation of this aspect of his proposal in the analysis developed in this book,
given that the evaluation of many relevant issues regarding Government has been taken up in
much research within the Minimalist Program.
21
But see section 3.1, example (26) for a type of gerunds, TP-defective gerunds, that behaves
differently from CGs in this respect, by showing a [−tense] specification, as proposed
originally by Stowell (1982). TP-defective gerunds are analyzed in detail in chapter 2.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
26
Given that a [±tense] distinction cannot account for the distinct properties of
finite clauses and CGs (they are both [+tense]), it is necessary to account for
the special properties and distribution of clausal gerunds in a different way,
dispensing with the need to rely on a [tense] distinction to account for Case
checking/valuation in these cases.22
This is in line with recent Minimalist
proposals regarding Case checking/valuation of overt DPs (Chomsky 1995a,
2000, 2001) which are primarily dependent on the φ-feature specification of
the Case checking/valuing head. Therefore, it is not possible to adopt the
[−tense] approach to CGs proposed by Reuland, given that CGs are in fact
[+tense]. The main aspect of Reuland’s analysis that will be directly retained in
the analysis implemented here is the idea that the head of a CG (I0
for Reuland,
T0
here) is instrumental in the assignment of Case to the CG’s subject DP, as it
is assumed in most approaches to structural Case assignment to non-ECM
subjects (see section 4.1 for evidence that CGs are not ECM/Exceptional Case
marking complements).
One final point is that given the analysis of CGs as projecting a [+tense]
Tense Phrase, one might expect them to project a CP as well. However, two
important pieces of evidence indicate that there is no CP projection available in
CGs. First, they do not allow the occurrence of complementizers, as in (20b)
and (21b), differently from to-infinitive clauses (20a) and from finite clauses
(21a) (see Stowell 1982):
(20) a. Ann wants very much [for Mike to work at home].
b. Ann wants very much [(*for) Mike working at home].
(21) a. Mark prefers [ that Mary travel with him].
b. Mark prefers [(*that) Mary traveling with him].
Second, CGs can never occur as indirect questions; that is, partial
wh-movement, which is possible with infinitives (22b), is always excluded
with CGs (23b, d). If the argument is right that CGs never project an independ-
ent CP, there is no intermediate CP position in (23b, d) in which a wh-feature
can be checked/valued, explaining why partial wh-movement is impossible
with CG complements.
22
There is one other important empirical advantage of this account, in the treatment of control
clauses with gerunds, since [tense] distinctions are also not helpful there, in the way they are
used in the Null Case approach to control (see section 3.1 for detailed discussion of some
relevant problems for this approach).
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 27
(22) a. Jeff didn’t remember [ to buy groceries].
b. Jeff didn’t remember [what to buy t ].
(23) a. Sue didn’t remember [ buying groceries].
b. * Sue didn’t remember [what buying t ].
c. Joan didn’t remember [ visiting her relatives two years ago].
d. * Joan didn’t remember [when visiting her relatives t ].
However, as seen before, long wh-movement applies freely out of CGs,
either from subject or object position (24) (see also (8)):
(24) a. This project is what we’d favor [her working on t].
b. The only one who we’d favor [t writing this screenplay] is Sue.
c. The winter is when Sue prefers [staying at home t].
d. Where do you defend [Bill moving to t]?
e. What would you remember [buying t]?
If there were a need for an intermediate [Spec, CP] for successive cyclic
wh-movement to take place, there would be no way to derive the long-distance
wh-movement cases out of CGs in (8) and (24), given the analysis of CGs as
bare TPs. Nevertheless, it is possible to argue that the moved wh-phrase in
these cases raises directly from its base position inside the CG to the [Spec,
CP] of the higher clause. That is consistent with the conception of phases in
Chomsky 2000, 2001. If the root TP of CGs were a phase, the wh-element
would need to move to the edge of that phase in order to be able to move later
to [Spec, CP] of the higher clause. However, TPs are not considered to be
phases (see Chomsky 2000, 2001 and references therein), thus a wh-phrase
internal to a CG is accessible for movement without needing to move to the
edge of the CG.23
This can account for why long-distance wh-movement can
apply freely in (8) and (24), since no intermediate CP projection is required for
this movement to take place, whereas partial wh-movement out of CGs is
blocked, because there is no intermediate CP position in the embedded clause
in (23b-d) where a wh-feature can be checked/valued.24
23
Although intermediate wh-movement to the edge of the first available (strong) phase (in this
case, matrix vP) may be required in the course of long-distance wh-movement.
24
One could consider a more flexible approach to syntactic structure, in which structure is
built from the bottom up, but using only the material needed for convergence. Under this view,
since no empirical evidence is found for the projection of a CP-level, the null position is also
that CGs lack CP. However, under this view that structure should be projected as needed for
convergence, it would be difficult to explain why (23b, d) are ungrammatical, given that an
intermediate CP could in principle be projected because it is needed for convergence (in order
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
28
3 Null subjects in Clausal Gerunds
In this section I address the licensing of null subjects in the subject position
of clausal gerunds. First, I show that null subject CGs split into constructions
that only license obligatory control (OC) null subjects and constructions that
license non-obligatory control (NOC) null subjects. I provide empirical
evidence supporting an A-movement analysis of control null subjects in CGs. I
develop that analysis in section 4, to account for both new and previously
known facts about the complex distribution of CGs with null and overt
subjects, by proposing a unified structure for both types of CGs.
3.1 Problems for a Null Case/Tense approach to control in gerunds
In different Minimalist accounts of control (e.g. Chomsky & Lasnik 1993,
Martin 1996, 2001, Bošković 1997), PRO is an independent element in the
lexicon and in the numeration, and is also argued that PRO can only be
licensed by being assigned null Case in a [+tense] non-finite domain (Martin
1996, 2001; Bošković 1995, 1997). However, I present below empirical
evidence from gerunds against a [+tense]/Null Case theory of control. Chom-
sky and Lasnik (1993) proposed that null Case licenses PRO, stipulating that
both are absent in raising and ECM. Martin (1996, 2001) attempted to provide
a more principled approach for this distinction, by arguing instead that control
infinitives are [+ tense] (Stowell 1982), which licenses null Case PRO (25a),
whereas raising (25b) and ECM infinitives (25c) are [−tense], so preclude null
Case PRO.
(25) a. John decided [PRO to leave].
b. Ann seemed [t /*PRO to be interested in the new job].
c. Bill believed Mary [ t to be a good friend]./
*Bill believed [PRO to be a good friend].
However, contrary to what is argued by Martin, I show that there is no one-
to-one correspondence between null Case/PRO and a [+tense] interpretation.
First, there is a class of gerunds, which I refer to as TP-defective gerunds, that
is related to CGs but can be distinguished from them by several properties,
including the fact that they only license a control null subject (PRO). Crucially,
different from CGs, TP-defective gerunds only allow a [–tense] interpretation
(26a-b) (see Stowell 1982, who first discusses the existence of a [–tense] type
to check/value the wh-feature of the partially moved wh-phrase). Crucially, the view that
structure can be projected as needed for convergence would overgenerate different construc-
tions.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 29
of gerund). 25
This is shown by the fact that TP-defective gerunds cannot have
a tense specification distinct from the matrix clause (26a-b), as shown by the
ungrammatical use with these gerunds of time adverbials indicating a distinct
time from the matrix clause (the examples are otherwise grammatical without
the temporal adverbials), different for example from certain infinitives (27).
However, TP-defective gerunds still license PRO, as I will further discuss in
chapter 2, which argues against Martin's hypothesis that only [+tense] heads
license PRO/null Case.
(26) a. * Bill tried today [talking to his boss tomorrow].
b. * Philip avoided last night [driving in the freeway this morning].
(27) Mark decided today [to leave to Rome tomorrow].
Second, in approaches to control such as the null Case approach it is re-
quired that the Spec, TP position that licenses null Case and PRO be specified
so that only PRO is allowed in this position, and not overt subjects. However,
the systematic alternation between overt and null subjects in CGs presents
another serious problem for such approaches to control. More specifically, the
CG that licenses an overt subject and its counterpart with a null subject are not
distinguishable in terms of properties such as tense, as shown by the alternation
in (28), in which both CGs carry a [+tense] interpretation.26
The [+tense]
interpretation in both cases is again shown by the independent temporal
modification from the matrix clause. Here there is no direct correlation
between the tense specification of the two CGs and the occurrence of either a
null or an overt subject in either case. More importantly, aside from the
occurrence of an overt DP in (28a), there is no other syntactic property that
distinguishes this case from (28b).
(28) a. Sue favored (yesterday) [ Anna moving to Chicago (today)].
b. Sue favored (last week) [ moving to Chicago (today)].
Third, in an attempt to provide further empirical motivation for his ap-
proach to control, Martin (1996, 2001) assumes that event-denoting predicates
25
In chapter 2 I analyze the properties that distinguish the TP-defective gerunds in (26a-b)
from clausal gerunds (for instance, CGs are different regarding their tense specification, in that
they are [+ tense]; see examples (19) and (28)).
26
Furthermore, they cannot be distinguished regarding the possible projection of a CP (taken
to be a distinguishing element between control and non-control infinitive clauses in early
P&P/Principles & Parameters approaches), given that a CP is absent in CGs in general (see
arguments in section 2).
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
30
contain an event variable that needs to be bound by [+tense] or some other
operator - e.g. auxiliary be/have (Enç 1990). Given Martin’s attempt to argue
that control complements are [+tense], his prediction is that they have to allow
an individuated event interpretation (as in (25a)), in which the leaving event
can be identified as needing to occur once at a specific point in time. This is
contrary to [−tense] clauses, which for Martin can only allow a stative or
habitual interpretation in the absence of tense or some other operator (as he
argues for [−tense] raising/ECM predicates such as (25b-c)).
However, both correlations fail regarding gerunds that allow control null
subjects, which I will discuss in more detail in chapter 2. First, the [−tense]
control gerunds of (26) are expected by Martin to block an individuated event
interpretation, but they allow that interpretation without any problems, as
shown in (29). Second, given Martin’s prediction that control complements
have to allow an individuated-event interpretation, it is unexpected to find a
subset of gerunds that do not allow that interpretation. But contrary to what is
predicted by Martin’s analysis, control complements such as (30) can only
allow a habitual, generic interpretation, when they are embedded under a
present tense.27
(29) Sue tried [leaving at 10am].
(30) Mark hates/loves [talking to Mary (in the morning)].
These three sets of facts indicate that distinctive properties of control and
non-control structures postulated in null Case/tense approaches to control
theories face significant empirical difficulties in the domain of gerunds.
Similar problems can be pointed out for that analysis in the case of ECM
and raising complements. Recall that ECM/raising complements are taken by
Martin (1996, 2001) to allow only [−tense] and [−eventive]. Unfortunately,
neither requirement of the theory is born out by certain empirical data,
regarding either ECM or raising. Consider raising first. As Martin (1996:102)
27
One might take the habitual, generic interpretation to be the case because of the use of the
present tense in the matrix clause. However, this explanation cannot be adopted under Martin’s
analysis, because for him the feature specification of a control clause has to be sufficient to
force the individuated event reading, and should not be dependent on the tense specification of
the matrix clause, contrary to what (30) shows. Crucially, other examples with present tense
matrix verbs that take control CGs as complements such as (i) do not block the individuated-
event interpretation, even in the absence of overt event binding operators.
(i) a. I remember [dreaming of sirens (soon after midnight yesterday)].
b. I count on [leaving tomorrow at 10am].
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 31
himself points out, when seem/appear are in the past tense, they can license an
event predicate in their infinitival complement with the presence of an
independent temporal operator (that is, these complements are [+eventive] in
cases such as (31)). However, this is incompatible with Martin’s argument that
raising complements need to be [−eventive] in order to block control PRO:
(31) a. Flávio seemed to pass the ball right then.(Martin 1996:102)
b. Kim appeared to kiss someone right in front of me.
Martin goes on to attempt to show that the complements in (31) are actually
ambiguous between control and raising. However, he leaves unexplained why
this possibility (which would lead to a [+eventive] interpretation of the
infinitival complement), does not allow similar [+eventive] examples in which
the matrix raising verb appears in the present tense:
(32) a. * Flávio seems to pass the ball right now. (Martin 1996: 101)
b. * Kim appears to kiss someone right now.
Martin claims that in these cases the “eventive predicates are not licensed
with present tense in English, unless they receive a generic or habitual
interpretation.” (Martin 1996:103). However, there are numerous examples of
individuated event predicates embedded under present tense, in actual cases of
control, as shown in (33), and in all of them the sentences remain grammati-
cal:28
(33) a. Franks wants to graduate (on April 30th
).
b. John intends to call Sue (at 10am tomorrow).
c. It is important (for us) to leave in that plane to Rio (tomorrow
before dawn).
Notice that in (33) the control infinitive embedded under the present tense
has exactly the same irrealis interpretation (see Stowell 1982, Martin 1996)
that is observed when the matrix verb appears in the past tense. In sum, this
indicates that the present tense in the matrix clause does not block the possibil-
ity of an individuated event in the embedded clause.
28
In chapter 2, section 3.1, I present similar problems for the tense/eventive approach
involving control with gerunds. Hornstein (2003), also building on arguments against the null
Case/tense approach made in Pires (2001a), presents other supporting evidence for problems of
the null Case approach, using idiom interpretation and voice transparency as additional
diagnostics for the lack of control in the complement of seem/appear.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
32
Turning to ECM infinitives, Collins (2001:128-9), cites a list of verbs that
have been shown by Abusch (2000, published as Abusch 2004) to take a
future-oriented infinitival complement: verbs of the class of W-verbs (want
type verbs, see Postal 1974:176): expect, intend, mean, plan, and verbs of the
class of B-verbs (believe type verbs): anticipate, forecast, predict, and project.
The latter do not take control, but they have both a [+eventive] and [+tense]
interpretation, which is again incompatible with the predictions made by the
null Case/Tense approaches.
Given these and other problems that I present in this book for the
tense/eventive approach to control vs. rasing/ECM, the analysis I propose in
section 4.1 will attempt to provide a different approach to the control phenom-
ena regarding gerunds, aiming at explaining why CGs license either an overt or
a null subject, and without appealing to a tense distinction within CGs, given
that both types of clausal gerunds display a [+tense] interpretation.
3.2 Obligatory control in Clausal Gerunds
Concerning null-subject CGs such as (28b), an alternative account to the
Null Case theory of control is to take obligatory control (OC) PRO to be a
copy resulting from the movement of the controller DP (an account proposed
for infinitives by Hornstein 1999, 2001, but also instantiated in independent
approaches by O’Neil 1995 and by Manzini & Roussou 2000).29
Considering
the empirical problems for the application of the null Case theory to gerunds,
as I showed above, I instead apply the movement approach to PRO in CGs,
arguing that the null subject of certain types of CGs is the residue of
A-movement. Crucially, relevant advantages of adopting this approach to null
subjects in CGs include: (i) avoiding the problem resulting from the attempt to
link a tense distinction to the alternation between PRO and overt subjects in
CGs such as (28), given that the movement analysis postulated in this chapter
hinges on φ-feature and Case-feature specification, and not simply on tense
distinctions; (ii) paving the way for a related treatment of overt-subject and
null-subject CGs (28), especially given that they do not display syntactic
distinctions aside from the possible occurrence of the embedded overt DP in
cases such as (28a).
29
Alternative approaches to control have more recently been the object of significant debate in
the literature. Some relevant references representing different perspectives include Culicover
& Jackendoff 2001, Polinsky & Potsdam 2002, 2003, Jackendoff & Culicover 2003, Landau
2003, 2004, Hornstein 2003, Kapetangianni & Seely 2003, Monahan 2003, Barrie 2004,
Boeckx and Hornstein 2004, Davies & Dubinsky 2004, San Martin 2004, Rodrigues 2004 and
references therein). In chapter 3 I will review briefly a few proposals that bear on empirical
phenomena partially related to the ones investigated in this book, in particular Terzi 1997,
Mensching 2000, Kapetangianni & Seely 2003 and Landau 2004.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 33
CGs in general license null subjects, which have been standardly analyzed
as PRO. By applying the following seven diagnostics, I show below that three
of the four instances of CGs considered in detail in this chapter (3a-d) consis-
tently display properties of obligatory control (OC), as illustrated in (34) to
(41): (i) in the complement position of a verb (examples (b) in (34) to (41));
(ii) in the complement of a subcategorized preposition (examples (c) below);
(iii) in adjuncts introduced by a preposition (d). The examples (a) in (34) to
(41) show similar instances of OC PRO with to-infinitives.30
The various
structural and interpretive restrictions applying in (34)-(41) can be effectively
accounted for as resulting from the application of A-movement, as it will be
formalized as part of the unified analysis of these CGs in section 4. For
instance, in (34) to (36), PRO requires a local, c-commanding antecedent
because these are restrictions imposed on the application of A-movement to the
controller.
i. OC PRO must have an antecedent:
(34) a. * It was expected PRO to shave himself.
b. * It was never liked PRO staying up late.
c. * It was aimed at PRO hurting himself.
d. * It wasn’t expected PRO to start the play without PRO turning the
lights off.
ii. The antecedent of OC PRO must be local:
(35) a. * Johnj thinks that it was expected PROj to shave himself.
b. * Paulj thinks that Mary enjoyed/preferred PROj shaving himself.
c. * Peterj thinks that Mary counted on PROj shaving himself.
d. * Peterj thought that Mary would leave without PROj shaving
himself.
iii. The antecedent must c-command PRO:
(36) a. * Johnj’s campaign expects PROj to shave himself.
b. * Johnj’s mother favored PROj shaving himself.
c. * Peterj’s girlfriend worried about PROj hurting himself.
d. * Billj’s sister left without PROj having shaved himself.
30
Tests (i-v) were originally presented in Lebeaux (1985). Infinitive examples (a) are from
Hornstein (1999).
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
34
iv. OC PRO only permits a sloppy interpretation under ellipsis: In (37), the
DP that is interpreted as part of ellipsis gap has to be interpreted as be-
ing coreferent with the closest antecedent c-commanding the site of the
gap, and this is the same structural relation found between the antece-
dent and the gap in cases of A-movement, as shown in (38):
(37) a. John expects PRO to win and Bill does too (= Bill win).
b. John hates PRO losing and Bill does too. (= Bill lose/*= Bill hates
John losing).
c. John worried about losing and Bill did too. (= Bill lose/*= Bill
worried about John losing)
d. Peter left the party after kissing Mary and Bill did too. (= Bill
kissed Mary)31
(38) Peter is likely to kiss Mary and Bill is too (= Bill is likely to kiss
Mary).
v. OC PRO cannot have split antecedents: If OC PRO results from A-
movement, the impossibility of split antecedents can be explained by
the fact that two different DPs in the clause cannot have both moved
from the same base position:32
(39) a. * Johni proposed to Maryj PROi+j to wash themselves/each other.
b. * Billi knew that Maryj hated PROi+j hurting themselves/each
other.
c. * Billi talked to Maryj about PROi+j hurting themselves/each other.
d. * Peteri talked to Susanj without PROi+j confusing themselves/each
other.
vi. OC PRO only has a de se interpretation (cf. e.g. Higginbotham 1992:
86-90). For instance, given the specific scenario proposed by
Higginbotham, (40b) is false in a situation in which the unfortunate is
someone who lost his memory of getting a medal but then reads about
the medal award, does not recognize himself as the medal recipient, but
31
Notice that in the relevant interpretation the CG needs to be construed as part of the ellipsis
material.
32
Landau (2003) argues that split antecedents are actually possible with cases of obligatory
control. Zwart (p.c. 2005) suggests that there is a similar effect with cases of obligatory control
in Dutch. However, the informants I have interviewed do not consider this possible in the CG
cases I investigate here.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 35
is still pleased because that person (himself, who he does not recog-
nize!) received the medal:33
(40) a. # The unfortunate expects PRO to get a medal.
b. # The unfortunate liked PRO getting a medal.
c. # The unfortunate worried about PRO getting a medal.34
vii. Only NP constructions (Fodor 1975). In (41), the binder of PRO must
be the expression formed by only + NP. Take for instance (41c), which
cannot be paraphrased with the interpretation in (41c’’). It can only be
interpreted as in (41c’), under which only Columbus could be proud
that he himself discovered the West Indies (i.e. the expression only Co-
lumbus and not just Columbus is in fact the controller of PRO). This
follows in a straightforward way from an A-movement approach if the
whole phrase only Columbus is base-generated in the embedded clause
33
The de se interpretation requires a propositional attitude construction amenable to an
analysis as below, where (ib) is a predication that ascribes a reflexive property to the subject,
the unfortunate. This forces x to correspond to a single referent in different contexts. However,
it is only by means of the complete identity between the different occurrences of the variable x
that the non de se interpretation is blocked in OC PRO cases. This complete identity can
arguably be obtained from A-movement, rather than mere coreference (see also fn. 34).
(i) a. The unfortunate likes PRO playing games.
b. The unfortunate λx[x likes x play].
Adjuncts introduced by a preposition might not be taken to be amenable to tests for the de se
interpretation. Consider, however, a case that may show the relevant distinction:
(ii) a. #The unfortunatek was pleased after [ ek getting a medal].
b. The unfortunatek was pleased after [hek got a medal].
In an interpretation in which there is a causal relation between the embedded clause (to get a
medal) and the matrix clause (being pleased), the de se interpretation is in fact obligatory in
(iia), in the same scenario considered in the main text.
34
Jan-Wouter Zwart (p.c. 2005) brings up the idea that reference is not to a real world entity,
but to a concept (see e.g. Jackendoff 1983, 2002). He then suggests that in the relevant case
(the non de se reading resulting from the amnesia scenario in the text), the real world entity
referred to by the antecedent and PRO would be the same, but the concept would not. Under
this approach, PRO should arguably be restricted in its reference by not being able to refer to a
concept different from its antecedent. Under the movement approach presented later (see also
fn. 33) this restriction in the reference of PRO can arguably be accounted for in a straightfor-
ward way, if the movement of a DP does not allow its semantic interpretation to be modified.
However, the issue is not completely clear here, given that one needs to make explicit the
precise definition of the terms ‘reference’ and ‘concept’.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
36
and moves to the matrix clause. The same interpretive restriction ap-
plies to (41a-b, d):
(41) a. Only Mary remembered PRO to return the book to the library.
b. Only Churchill remembers PRO giving the BST speech.
(Hornstein 1999:(4g)).
c. Only Columbusj was proud of PROj, *k discovering the West
Indies.
c’. Only Columbus was proud of himself discovering the West Indies.
c’’ # Only Columbusj was proud that hej, k discovered the West
Indies.
d. Only Churchillj was congratulated after PROj, *k giving the BST
speech.
d’. Only Churchill was congratulated after himself giving the BST
speech.
d’’ # Only Churchillj was congratulated after hej, k gave the BST
speech.
These different tests show that CGs display a number of core properties that
are better subsumed under an A-movement approach. In the analysis developed
in section 4 I show how the control null subject of these CGs can be analyzed
as the residue of movement of an overt DP to a higher domain, in order to
check/value a Case feature. Crucially, I will show there how this analysis can
be compatible with the alternative licensing of overt DPs in the subject
position of CGs, a possibility that cannot be easily accounted for in other
accounts to control such as a Null Case/tense approach, given problems such as
the ones I discussed in section 3.1.
3.3 Non-Obligatory control in Clausal Gerunds
CGs in subject position are the only instances of CGs where non-obligatory
control (NOC) PRO properties systematically hold, as illustrated in (42): NOC
PRO does not require an antecedent (42a); if it has an antecedent, the antece-
dent does not need to be local (42b); the antecedent does not need to c-
command NOC PRO (42c); a strict reading of the elided VP is possible in
(42d); NOC PRO allows for split antecedents (42e); a non-de se interpretation
is available for NOC PRO with respect to the matrix subject (42f); and finally,
the binder of NOC PRO does not need to be interpreted as the only + NP
expression available in the matrix sentence in (42g), since George Bush didn’t
win the Second World War:
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 37
(42) a. It was believed that shaving was important.
b. John thinks that it is believed that PRO shaving himself is
important.
c. Clinton’s campaign believes that PRO keeping his sex life under
control is necessary for electoral success.
d. John thinks that PRO getting his resume in order is crucial and Bill
does too. (= Bill thinks that John getting his resume in order is
crucial, strict reading).
e. Johnj told Maryk that PROj+k washing themselves/each other would
be fun.
f. The unfortunate believes that PRO getting a medal would be
boring.
g. Only George Bush remembers that PRO winning the Second
World War was crucial.
Hornstein (1999) argues that instances of NOC PRO are distinct from OC
PRO in that they cannot be analyzed as the residue of A-movement. He
assumes that they are instances of pro, which allows him to eliminate PRO as
an element of the grammar. On this view, standard instances of PRO are then
reanalyzed as either copies left behind by A-movement (OC PRO) or instances
of pro (NOC PRO). If that is the case, what distinguishes pro-drop from non-
pro-drop languages is not the absence of pro in the latter, but rather that,
although pro is present universally across languages, its occurrence is much
more widespread in standard pro-drop languages. I put aside here further
consideration of gerunds with NOC subjects, and in the next section focus
especially on CGs with control null subjects and with overt subjects. 35
4 The syntax of Clausal Gerunds
In this section I propose an analysis of the syntax of CGs that attempts to
account for five core syntactic properties of clausal gerunds, regarding
especially their distribution and licensing of subjects. The current analysis
explores an approach to Case checking/valuation that is related to agreement
(φ-feature) checking/valuation in the Minimalist program (Chomsky 2000,
2001 and references therein). The current analysis attempts to explain, in a
unified approach, the following empirical facts about the behavior of CGs:
35
Kiguchi (2002) analyzes a subset of gerunds in subject position that actually display
obligatory control properties. He also proposes an analysis of OC PRO in those constructions
as the result of A-movement.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
38
i. The subject of a CG may be an empty category (standardly analyzed as
a PRO) or an overt DP:
(43) a. The manager preferred [PRO being considered for the position in
the downtown office].
b. The manager preferred [Mary being considered for the position in
the downtown office].
ii. CGs need to satisfy a Case requirement (as argued in detail in section
2):
(44) a. * It is expected [John reading the book]. (cf. (44d-e))
b. * John is preferred reading the book.
c. * John is impossible reading the book.
d. [John reading the book] was preferred.
e. I prefer [John reading the book].
iii. CGs do not behave as Exceptional Case Marking (ECM) complements
such as (45a), which is indicated by the fact that they do not occur as
complements of ECM verbs like believe (45b-c) nor allow raising of
their subjects to the subject position of any passive structure (with
ECM (45c) and non-ECM predicates (46b)) (for seminal discussion
about ECM verbs see e.g. Chomsky 1981, 1986, Postal 1974 and refer-
ences therein):
(45) a. Mary believes [ Paul to be smart].
b. * Mary believes [John being smart].
c.. * John is believed [ being smart].
(46) a. Mary prefers [Paul swimming in the morning].
b. * Paul is preferred [ swimming in the morning].
iv. CGs can never occur as complements of subject raising verbs (47a-c),
although they can occur as a single constituent in the subject position of
raising predicates (47d):
(47) a. * There seems [being a man in the room].
b. * John appears [ liking Mary].
c. * It appears [John liking Mary].
d. [(John) talking to Mary] seems impossible.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 39
v. The subject position of a CG must be filled in the course of derivation,
either by a lexical DP (46a) that may further move, as I will argue hap-
pens in (48), or by a pure expletive (49). Within recent Minimalist
approaches (see Chomsky 2000, 2001 and references therein) the re-
quirement for a subject in the clause has been instantiated as the need to
have an EPP feature checked (or valued) in [Spec, TP]: 36
(48) Paul prefers [Paul swimming in the morning].
(49) Bill enjoys [there being many people at the party.]
4.1 The derivation of Clausal Gerunds
In order to explain the properties of CGs above, my analysis combines three
hypotheses regarding the properties of CGs:
(50) a. The inflectional head corresponding to –ing in CGs carries a
feature specification that forces the occurrence of CGs in positions
accessible to Case valuation (section 2);
b. in the derivation of a CG, the Case feature of its external argument
DP can be valued within the CG itself, in examples such as (51a);
or
c. the external argument DP can move out of the CG before the CG
can value the Case feature of this DP. This yields a null-subject
CG (a CG with a control PRO subject, in standard terms), as in
(51b).
(51) a. Sue prefers [John/him swimming].
b. John prefers [ swimming].
One possibility is that the hypotheses (50b) and (50c) should be treated as
resulting from two completely different structures, but one would have to find
empirical motivation showing that the syntactic structure of the CGs in (51a)
and (51b) is clearly distinct. However, there are no syntactic feature distinc-
tions between the CGs with an overt vs. a null subject (as in (51)); see for
instance arguments in section 2 for lack of tense distinctions between these two
CGs). The lack of feature distinctions between both types of CGs raises
problems for different P&P approaches to overt and null subjects, for two
major reasons. First, the syntactic properties that license an overt subject block
the occurrence of PRO (consider e.g. Case Theory in the Government &
36
See also (9) and fn. 9.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
40
Binding framework; Chomsky 1986 and references therein). Conversely, the
syntactic conditions that determine where PRO is possible block the occur-
rence of an overt subject. So, most P&P approaches induce complementary
distribution of PRO and overt subjects across different domains, but CGs
indicate that across-the-board complementarity is factually incorrect. The
analysis below attempts to reconcile the treatment of these two problems
regarding CGs, together with the treatment of the other complex facts about the
distribution of CGs presented in section 4 above.
In order to account for (50a) it is proposed here that not only the external
argument DP of a CG, but also its root node (a Tense head in the analysis
below), carry an uninterpretable Case feature that needs to be valued.37
Under
this approach, the head T of the CG itself will be a goal for Case valuation.38
37
Notice that an alternative treatment of CGs in which they would have a DP as their root
projection and the head D itself would need to check/value a Case feature is not necessarily
incompatible with the derivational approach adopted here, provided the same DP-treatment can
be extended to both types of CGs in (51), as supported by their empirical similarity. Different
complications arise for a DP-alternative, involving for instance why the Case assigned in acc-
ing cannot be Genitive, if there is a DP-projection as postulated in the DP analysis. I put aside
in this book this and other problems I discussed in section 2.
38
The approach to overt syntax adopted here explores certain core aspects of the architecture
proposed in Chomsky 2000, 2001 regarding phrase structure, Case, φ-features and A-
movement to subject position. The basic syntactic building operation is Merge:
(i) Merge takes the syntactic objects (α , β) and forms K (α , β) from them.
In this sense, Merge is a concatenating operation that builds binary trees in the syntax, adding
one new lexical item at a time (except for initial merge, when two lexical items need to be
inserted in the derivation for Merge to apply).
Case and φ-feature valuation are taken to apply as a consequence of the operation Agree:
(ii) Agree “establishes a relation (agreement, Case checking) between an LI [lexical item]
α and a Feature F in a search space (its [the LI’s] domain)” (Chomsky 2000: 102).
The LI α is referred to as the Probe, and the LI that carries the Feature F (or the Feature F
itself, which is not entirely clear) is referred to as the Goal. In addition, as a requirement for
Agree to apply, two other conditions need to be satisfied:
(iii) Match: Probe and Goal need to have a subset of their features in common (φ-features,
in the cases that are relevant here).
(iv) The Activation Condition:
Both the Probe and the Goal need to be active, that is, they carry an uninterpretable
feature (which needs to be valued in order to be eliminated by LF).
In a standard case of nominative Case assignment such as (v), once T is merged in (va) it
becomes the Probe. T is active at this point by carrying uninterpretable φ-features (and also an
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 41
As I explain in detail below, if the DP subject can move out of the CG before
the Case feature of the T head of the CG is valued (and the latter must happen
by the end of the derivation), a standard OC PRO construction is generated,
yielding (51b). The Case requirement on CGs is formalized in (52i). Further-
more, I propose that a condition which blocks feature valuation applies during
Agree (52ii), preventing valuation from happening for as long as both Probe
and Goal carry an uninterpretable instance of the same feature:
(52) i. The Tense (T0
) head of a CG carries an uninterpretable Case
feature that needs to be valued.
ii. A probe cannot value an uninterpretable/unvalued feature of its
goal while the probe itself has an uninterpretable/unvalued feature
of the same kind.
Property (52i) is a direct formalization of (50a), discussed in detail in sec-
tion 2. Property (52ii) is instantiated in this analysis by the fact that the T of a
CG can value the Case feature of a DP only after its own (unvalued) Case
feature has been valued by an appropriate probe (e.g. a matrix v or T).39
In
what follows it is shown how the complex distribution of CGs (broadly
summarized in section 4 above) follows from the interaction between these two
properties and from the general architecture of feature checking/valuation in
recent approaches to the Minimalist Program (e.g. Chomsky 2000, 2001).40
uninterpretable EPP-feature). The DP Frank is targeted as the Goal for T (carrying interpret-
able φ-features and an uninterpretable nominative Case feature). They Match in φ-features and
Agree can apply, allowing valuation of the φ-features of T and the Case feature of the DP
Frank. In addition, the EPP-feature on T triggers overt movement of the DP Frank to Spec TP,
yielding (vb):
(v) a. [ TP T [vP Frank annoyed the leviathan].
b. [ TP Frank T [vP Frank annoyed the leviathan].
Both Match and Agree are established under c-command of the Goal by its Probe, and
intervention effects are also relevant (in the standard cases, no other element that could match
in features with the Probe can c-command the Goal and be c-commanded by the Probe).
39
This is reminiscent of the mechanism of N-feature checking proposed in Zwart 1996:262. It
also relates to the mechanism of Case transmission/percolation proposed for Basque in Ortiz
de Urbina 1989.
40
One might raise the question whether there is independent evidence for the properties in
(52). First, to my knowledge, there is no analysis of CGs that has been able to dispense entirely
with the need to instantiate these two properties by means of some special mechanism (for
instance, Reuland’s insightful analysis instantiates both properties by other mechanisms, but
proposes a significantly complex architecture especially to deal with certain CGs, with
additional empirical complications such as the ones regarding the treatment of tense, as I
discussed in section 2). I discussed an alternative to (52i) in section 2, by reviewing briefly the
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
42
Given this architecture, the head of a CG (its Tense head) is taken to display
three other properties that are equivalent to the ones that apply for instance to
feature checking/valuation in to-infinitives (see Chomsky 2000, 2001):
(53) i It has an EPP feature that needs to be checked.41
ii. It enters the numeration as φ-defective.
iii.When the Tense (T) head of the CG (a probe) Matches/Agrees
with the embedded subject DP (a goal), the DP merges in [Spec,
TP] of the CG to check EPP and checks/values the φ-features of T.
In the approach to feature valuation adopted here (which follows in most
respects Chomsky 2001), the functional heads v and T in finite and non-finite
clauses carry uninterpretable/unvalued φ-features. Both v and T can probe the
derivation for matching, active goals that can check/value the uninter-
pretable/unvalued φ-features of v and T. A DP has interpretable φ-features and
enters the derivation with an uninterpretable/unvalued Case feature that makes
it active to induce Agree with a probe. The Case feature of the DP is valued
after that DP enters into Match/Agree with a functional head that is φ-
complete. Both the head (probe) and the matching DP (goal) have to be active
in order to enter into a Match/Agree relation. Only uninterpretable/unvalued
features (e.g. uninterpretable, unvalued φ-features and Case) activate a probe
and a goal, thus inducing Match/Agree. Once the functional head T0
(the
probe) of a finite clause and the subject DP (the goal) enter into Match/Agree,
the uninterpretable Case feature of the goal DP and the uninterpretable φ-
alternative of adding a DP projection above TP, although I pointed out different problems in
treating CGs as DPs. Given those complications, I won’t consider this alternative in the
derivations that follow. Pesetsky & Torrego (2001) propose a widespread connection between
Case and tense features, by suggesting that nominative Case is in fact an uninterpretable T
feature on D. This connection between Case and an uninterpretable T feature may bear on the
approach I adopt, although I don’t explore the possible connections here. Regarding (52ii), it
may not be restricted to CGs and may have some cross-linguistic correlates. Section 7 will
discuss examples of non-finite constructions in several different languages which may
instantiate a similar mechanism to the one explored here, by which a certain inflectional head
can value the Case of a DP only if this inflectional head itself appears in the domain of a Case-
valuing probe.
The advantage of the approach I propose in section 4 is that, by appealing to these two
properties of CGs in interaction with a general architecture of feature valuation, this approach
may effectively account for a host of facts in the complex distribution of CGs that so far have
not been entirely analyzed.
41
Chomsky (1995a:232) proposes that the EPP corresponds to a strong D-feature of I. In
Chomsky (2001:7) EPP is treated as an uninterpretable selectional feature of a syntactic object
(of T and v, in the alternative he explores in detail). I do not focus here on evaluating different
alternatives to deal with EPP requirements; see also in this respect fn. 9).
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 43
features of T are valued.42
Overt movement to [Spec, TP] is necessary to
satisfy an EPP-requirement. In the case of clausal gerunds, T0
is φ-defective,
but it can still attract its subject DP in order to satisfy its EPP requirement, as
in instances of Tdef (φ-defective T, see Chomsky 2000, 2001) in infinitives.43
Consider how this architecture can account for the core properties of clausal
gerunds in the derivations that follow. I represent the head (T, as referred
above) of the embedded CG as AGR, to make its status clear in the different
derivations.
First, consider in detail the core case of a null-subject CG as in (54). It is
proposed here that the null subject in such cases results from A-movement of
the embedded CG subject to the matrix clause, as supported by the different A-
movement diagnostics presented in detail in section 3.2. Crucially, since I
analyze instances of OC PRO in CGs (51b) as the result of A-movement, I
assume that θ-roles can be assigned through movement and not only by first
merge (cf. Bošković 1994; Lasnik 1995; Bošković and Takahashi 1998;
Hornstein 1999, 2001). The idea is that θ-roles can also be assigned in the
course of the derivation, and are satisfied not in a configuration, but in a set of
configurations (i.e. transformationally).
In (54) the head AGR of the CG starts as φ-defective and with an uninter-
pretable Case feature CAGR. Recall that the uninterpretable Case feature on
AGR corresponds to the Case requirement of the different CGs analyzed here,
as stated in (52i), and is responsible for their restriction to Case positions
(section 2).44
As John enters into Match/Agree with AGR in (54b), John values
42
This complexity arises in a system where φ-features are the attractors (Chomsky 2000) or the
lexical item that makes the probe active for Match/Agree (Chomsky 2001). In a symmetric
approach to Case checking such as in Chomsky 1995a, where Case features are checked by
Case features, a functional head carrying a Case feature checks the corresponding Case feature
of a DP. In such a system, the T head of clausal gerunds would be able to attract the subject DP
by virtue of the EPP, but would not be able to check the Case on the DP because its own Case
feature had not been checked yet in the derivation (see derivation of (54) below). However, the
symmetric approach is not considered here: Chomsky (2000:23) for instance discusses
examples of super-raising that present problems for this approach to Case.
43
The fact that T is φ-defective does not prevent Match with the full φ-set of DP from
applying. Although Chomsky (2001:4) considers identity to be the optimal candidate for
Match, he argues that Match is not strictly speaking identity, but non-distinctness. For Match
to occur, probe and goal must share the same features, independent of value. In this case, the φ-
features of T on a clausal gerund are simply unvalued when DP-movement takes place to
satisfy the EPP. That is, they are non-distinct from the ones on the DP, as in other instances of
Tdef, thus Match between the φ-defective T and the DP can apply.
44
Notice that under the approach adopted here φ-features and Case features exist independ-
ently, even though, as proposed by Chomsky 2000, 2001, Case feature valuation is dependent
on Match/Agree of φ-features.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
44
the φ-set of AGR by Agree and moves to Spec TP1 for EPP satisfaction.45
Crucially, valuation of the φ-set of AGR by the DP eliminates its defective-
ness.46
However, since AGR still has an uninterpretable Case feature at the
point in (54b), Case valuation of the embedded subject DP cannot yet take
place. This is the instantiation of (52ii), by which a probe that carries an
uninterpretable Case feature cannot value the Case of its goal until its own
Case feature has been valued.
As the matrix V is inserted in the derivation, the embedded CG is assigned
the propositional internal θ-role of the matrix verb (54c). When matrix v enters
the derivation, it attracts the embedded DP John and assigns an experiencer θ-
role to it.47
The matrix v then Matches/Agrees in φ-features with the embedded
AGR in CG and values the uninterpretable Case feature (CAGR) that AGR still
45
However, given the phase approach of Chomsky 2001, I assume that the uninterpretable
φ-features of AGR are not deleted immediately after being valued. I take this not to be
inconsistent with the idea that uninterpretable features must be deleted. This will be more
especially relevant in the derivation of (55), in which the uninterpretable φ-features and Case
feature of AGR as well as the Case feature of the CG subject will be deleted only at the end of
the first available strong phase (the matrix vP) . I assume this is compatible with the phase
approach in Chomsky 2001: valued uninterpretable features do not need to be deleted before
the end of their strong phase. Alternatively, uninterpretable features that have been valued
remain active until the phase is no longer available for further computation (however, cf.
Epstein & Seely 2002 for possible problems regarding the approach to feature deletion at the
phase-level in Chomsky’s 2000, 2001 approach.)
46
A question arises why this elimination of the defectiveness of φ-set of a CG does not occur
in other instances of Match/Agree, such as with infinitives. Crucially, infinitive T in English
does not allow overt subjects unless their Case is valued by a higher inflectional head (e.g.
under ECM). This follows from the fact that the infinitives are consistently φ-defective.
Contrary to this, it is plausible that AGR (the T0
of a CG) gets its φ-set to become non-
defective after Match/Agree with the DP in its Spec because of the nominal character of AGR,
formalized here by the fact that it also carries an uninterpretable Case feature that needs to be
checked/valued (52i) (see discussion regarding the latter in section 2).
An alternative is to take the φ-set of a CG T head to be lexically specified as always
φ-complete, in which case the only reason why it does not always value the Case of the
embedded CG subject would hinge entirely on the fact that the CG needs to have its own
uninterpretable Case feature valued, as shown in the derivation of (54). The precise distinction
in φ-feature specification is hard to pin down here, given that CGs share properties with both
infinitives (the possibility of null subjects) and with finite clauses (the possibility of overt
subjects) at the same time, and for this reason cannot be identical to either one regarding Case
valuation.
47
There are two possible ways to motivate the overt movement of the embedded DP John to
Spec, vP of the matrix clause. One possibility is to take θ-role assignment to require merge in
the thematic position, ruling out thematic assignment by Match/Agree, which would argue
against the view that θ-roles are features similar to Case or φ-features. The other possibility is
that vP has an EPP requirement that can be satisfied by an external argument merging in Spec,
vP.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 45
carries (54c). Finally, John moves from matrix [Spec, vP] to [Spec, TP2] to
check/value its own uninterpretable Case feature and the EPP and φ-features
on T2 (54d). 48
(54) John prefers swimming. = (51b)
a. [T’ AGR [vP John swimming]]
[φ /CaseAGR θ/Case ]]
b. [TP1 John [T’ AGR [vP John swimming]]]
[ EPP/ φ /CaseAGR [ θ/Case ]]]
c. [vP John [v’ prefers [TP1 John [T’ AGR [vP John swimming]...
[2θ/Case [ CaseAGR [ EPP /φ [ θ ]...
d. [TP2 John [T’ [vP John [v’ prefers [TP1 [T’ AGR [vP swimming]…
[φ/Case/ EPP [ 2θ [ CaseAGR [ EPP /φ [ ]...
e. TP2
2
John T’
2
vP
2
John v’
2
prefers VP
2
prefers TP1
2
John T’
2
AGR vP
2
John swimming
48
This analysis represents movement by generating additional copies which are deleted in the
derivation (see Chomsky 1995a, Nunes 2004 for approaches along these lines), but no
significant aspect of the analysis hinges on this approach to movement; an approach in terms
of Remerge is in principle also compatible with the analysis adopted here (see e.g. Epstein et
al. 1998 for a seminal proposal for Remerge).
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
46
The analysis outlined above gives us the means to explain the grammatical-
ity and ungrammaticality of a host of other cases involving the distribution of
CGs. Before we proceed to them, there are a couple of important considera-
tions I would like to discuss regarding the steps in the derivation in (54). First,
when the matrix v is inserted in the derivation (54c), it carries an external
θ-role and uninterpretable φ-features which allow it to enter into the
Match/Agree operation that will value the case of the embedded CG.49
The
sequence in which θ-role assignment and Case valuation take place is entirely
restricted by the fact that this is the only possible convergent derivation of (54)
(this will be shown in further detail in the discussion of how an ungrammatical
derivation of the same example crashes, as in (54’) below). Crucially, the
ordering of steps in the derivation (54) is also fully compatible with cyclicity,
as defined in Chomsky (1995a:233),50
which is satisfied at all points. More
specifically, at the point in which matrix v is inserted in the derivation (54c), v
assigns a thematic role to the embedded DP, which moves to the matrix vP
external argument position. Before the derivation leaves the matrix-vP cycle,
the matrix v values its uninterpretable φ-features and the Case feature of the
embedded CG as well. Furthermore, the embedded DP and the embedded AGR
are equidistant from the probing matrix v, if one adopts the idea that they are in
the same minimal domain in the embedded clause (the domain of the embed-
ded T itself, see Chomsky 1995), being both accessible to the operations that
take place at the point matrix v is inserted in (54c).51
Also, AGR, the embedded
DP and the matrix v are all available within the same strong phase represented
by the matrix vP.
Second, the existence of multiple features that need to be checked/ valued in
the derivation of (54) raises questions as to whether the derivation could
proceed otherwise. However, Minimalist approaches determine that different
49
Presumably the matrix v has an internal θ-role as well, which is assigned to the embedded
CG, although this is not shown in the derivation.
50
As Chomsky (1995a:233) proposes “[A strong feature] induces cyclicity: [it] cannot be
“passed” by α that would satisfy it, and later checked by β; that would permit Relativized
Minimality violations (wh-island, super-raising).” (putting aside complications that should not
come into play here regarding overt and covert syntax, a strong feature corresponds in the
present analysis to an uninterpretable, unvalued feature).
Specifically at the point in (54c), the Case feature of the embedded subject John has to
“wait” to be valued only after it moves to the matrix clause because until the point John raises
to the matrix vP there is no more local probe that can value its Case in the derivation (given
that the CG head T cannot value Case while it still carries an uninterpretable Case feature of its
own — see also (54c’) for why an alternative derivation with different order of steps is
ungrammatical).
51
However, see in fn. 58 an alternative approach to the issue of locality and equidistance in
such cases.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 47
restrictions block the possibility of alternative derivations for the same
numeration, and such restrictions also come into play in the derivation of
different CGs, including (54). One important restriction that blocks alternative
derivations is the need for convergence at the interfaces. Consider one
alternative derivation of (54) (also compatible with cyclicity) that is in fact
blocked because it would yield a syntactic object whose features cannot all be
interpreted at the interface. If the matrix v (prefer + v) in (54c) valued the Case
of AGR before John moved out of [Spec, TP1], this would also allow AGR to
value the Case feature of John in [Spec, TP1] (given that AGR would now no
longer have an uninterpretable Case feature (see (52ii)), as illustrated in (54c’)
below. After having its Case valued John would effectively be prevented from
raising to the matrix clause. However, the matrix subject θ-role and the EPP
feature in [Spec, TP2] would end up not being satisfied in (54d’), because John
would now be inactive for further Match/Agree relations, and would no longer
be able to move out of the embedded clause. Given the absence of other DPs in
the numeration of (54) that could satisfy the EPP requirement in [Spec, TP2],
this yields a crash in the derivation ending in (54d’) below, further motivating
(54) as the only possible derivation of the null subject CG case in (51b).52
In sum, despite the impression that the derivation up to the insertion of the
matrix v (54c) could allow an alternative path starting in (54c’), this path in
fact leads to a non-convergent derivation. The question of optionality of
derivations will come up again in connection with the derivation of the overt
subject case in (51a), as analyzed in (55). I will show that there is no optional-
ity applying there either. This is consistent with the minimalist hypothesis that
optionality is restricted in the grammar, because apparently alternative
derivations are in fact not alternative, due to their distinct numerations (as
shown by the contrast between (54) and (55)), or due to the fact that only one
of them is convergent (as illustrated with (54) vs. (54’)). 53, 54
52
Notice that there is no problem for different cases with a numeration containing an
additional DP, such as Sue in (55) (Sue prefers John swimming), corresponding to a CG with
an overt subject, which I explain in detail later.
53
In addition, a derivation along the lines of (54’), but in which an expletive is merged in the
matrix [Spec, TP] (i) would also crash, possibly because expletive there cannot be inserted in a
thematic position, or it is blocked from taking the CG as an associate, which is explained in the
current analysis because the CG is not a DP, and does not carry the properties restricted to
indefinite DPs required in existential-there structures. Crucially, the matrix T cannot directly
probe the indefinite DP a man as its goal, because this would prevent the CG itself from
having its own Case feature valued, yielding a non-convergent derivation.
(i) * There prefers [a man swimming]
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
48
(54’) *prefers [John swimming]
c’. [vP [v’ prefers [TP1 John [T’ AGR [vP John swimming]]..
[ CaseAGR [ Case/EPP/φ [ θ ]]..
d’. [TP2 [T’ [vP [v’ prefers [TP1 John [T’ AGR [vP John swimming]]..
[φ?/EPP?θ? [ [ CaseAGR [ Case/ EPP/φ [ θ ]]..
e’. TP2
2
T’
2
vP
2
v’
2
prefers VP
2
prefers TP1
2
John T’
2
AGR vP
2
John swimming
The restriction on there-expletives with CGs as in (i) lends support to the view that there
expletives are only allowed in a subset of structural Case checking/valuation configurations
and are not allowed in all contexts in which EPP and structural Case checking/valuation come
into play. This is consistent with the fact that besides (i), neither case in (ii) is possible, despite
the fact that the expletive there can satisfy any EPP requirement whereas the associate-DP (a
man, two kids) could be generated in its base thematic position and have its Case valued by
Match/Agree (Chomsky 2000, 2001, Lasnik 1999, Lasnik 2001a,b and references therein; see
Chomsky 1995a for earlier analyses involving a there-associate relation):
(ii) a. * [TP There [vP a man danced]].
b. * [TP I [vP expected [TP there to [vP two kids enjoy the movie]]]].
54
(54’) and (i) in fn. 53 may support the view that there is an additional restriction on θ-role
assignment, especially in cases of multiple θ-role assignment (Bošković 1994; Lasnik 1995;
Bošković and Takahashi 1998; Hornstein 1999, 2001). In both cases it is not enough for the
matrix clause to have an additional thematic role available to be assigned to the embedded
argument DP, since that argument needs to move overtly to the matrix clause, in a way similar
to what one observes with the EPP-requirement. See an additional application of such an
alternative in fn. 47.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 49
Consider now the core case involving an overt subject within the CG (55).
The derivation of (55) initially proceeds in the same way as (54), but the
similarity stops after the step in (55b). When the matrix vP is generated in
(55c), the derivation proceeds differently from (54), clearly because at this
point (step c), Sue is still available in the numeration, whereas the numeration
of (54) did not have this additional DP. Crucially, the existence of two
different numerations rules out any consideration of (54) and (55) as compet-
ing derivations, given that they do not share the same numeration.55
Besides
this difference, there is in fact only one path that can lead to convergence in the
derivation of (55), as I will show in the next steps. Matrix v matches/agrees
with AGR (the Tense head of the CG), valuing the Case feature of AGR in
(55c). At this point, the Case feature of the embedded DP John can also be
checked/ valued, and this is done by AGR of the CG, with which the DP John
has already established an Agree relation. Case valuation of the DP John is
possible only at this point because this is when the restriction in (52ii) is finally
eliminated (that is, the Case of the CG itself has been valued).
Notice furthermore that there is no violation of cyclicity regarding Case
valuation: it is only when matrix v is merged that both the Case feature of the
CG and the Case feature of the embedded subject John can be valued, and both
instances of valuation take place in this order at this point in (55c), as deter-
mined by the features at play here56
(compare this later with (56), in which a
different path for Case valuation here would yield a non-convergent deriva-
tion). Finally, in (55d) the matrix subject Sue merges in [Spec, vP] where it is
assigned the matrix external θ-role, and raises to [Spec, TP2] in order to check
its Case feature and the EPP and φ-features of matrix T.
55
This is similar to the rationale adopted in the derivation of existential clauses such as (i),
which have been the focus of significant attention in the P&P literature. Both cases have a
common derivation only up to the point at which the embedded T is inserted. Given the
existence of there in the numeration of (ia), it does not compete with (ib), which takes place
independently (see e.g. Chomsky 1995a, 2000, 2001). This is like the contrast between (54)
and (55): there is no issue of optionality in the steps of each derivation in either pair of cases.
(i) a. There seems [ there to be a man outside].
b. A man seems [a man to be a man outside].
56
see fn. 45 regarding deletion of valued features (in this case φ-features) only at the (strong)
phase-level. See fn. 58 regarding why no locality violations arise in the choice of either the
embedded subject DP or the embedded T head as accessible goals for Match/Agree.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
50
(55) Sue prefers [John swimming]. = (51a).
a. [T’ AGR [vP John swimming]]
[CaseAGR [ θ/Case ]]
b. [TP1 John [T’ AGR [vP John swimming]]]
[ Case/EPP/φ [ θ/Case ]]]
c. [v’ prefers [TP1 John [T’ AGR [vP John swimming]...
[ CaseAGR [ Case/EPP/φ [ θ ]...
d. [TP2 Sue [vP Sue[v’ prefers [TP1 John [T’ AGR [vP John swimming]…
[Case/ EPP/φ θ [ CaseAGR [ Case/EPP/φ [ θ ]...
e. TP2
2
Sue T’
2
vP
2
Sue v’
2
prefers VP
2
prefers TP1
2
John T’
2
AGR vP
2
John swimming
Again, the need for the derivation to converge imposes a restriction on the
possibility of movement of the embedded subject, as I show through this
section. What determines how the Case feature of the embedded subject DP is
going to be valued are the steps that can yield a convergent derivation, as
shown in the contrast between (54) and (55). In different cases there is no issue
of optionality at play, because in examples such as (54) and (55) there are in
fact different numerations under consideration. In one case, the embedded
subject moves out in case the host CG has not yet checked/valued its own
features (yielding a CG with a null subject and OC properties, as in (54)). In
the other case, after the CG has already valued its own Case feature, the
embedded subject (given that it has not moved out of the embedded clause) can
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 51
only check/value its features internally to the CG, and freezes in its embedded
position, yielding a CG with a lexical subject, as in (55). But for the latter to
yield a convergent derivation, an additional argument DP needs to be available
in the numeration, as happens in (55), in which the additional DP Sue is in the
numeration. In sum, there is no issue of optionality involving a comparison of
the derivations of (54) and (55) because the two cases correspond to different
numerations.
Furthermore, there is no issue of optionality within the individual deriva-
tions of (54) and (55), because each one is the only path that will ultimately
converge in each case. The latter has been shown in the comparison between
(54) and (54’), but the question also arises why (55) does not allow the
alternative derivation shown in (56), within which the embedded John subject
would value its Case by ECM, a possibility that does not hold in general for
CGs, as I showed in section 4, property (iii). Here is an analysis showing why
ECM is unavailable with CGs, ruling out a derivation of (51a) as ECM (56):
(56) Sue prefers John-*ECM swimming.
a. [TP Sue [vP Sue [vP John [v' prefers [TP John [T’ AGR [vP John
swimming ]…
b. [Case/ EPP [ θ [ Case [ [ EPP *CaseAGR [ θ ...
At the point at which matrix v enters the derivation, one possibility would
be for the subject John of the CG to enter into Match/Agree directly with
matrix v to value its own Case (different from (55) and as in ECM construc-
tions), but this derivation is ruled out straightforwardly because the Case
feature on AGR (the head of the CG) would end up unvalued, yielding a crash
at the interfaces. 57
Consider now a derivation in which the whole CG moves to the subject
position of the matrix clause, when it is generated as the complement of a verb
57
This would be the analysis of this case under the Probe-goal approach proposed by Chomsky
(2000, 2001), and also applicable to ECM cases, with the only difference that in the derivation
represented in (56) John raises overtly to the accusative Case position in the matrix vP (see, in
this respect, Lasnik 1999), a possibility that is not crucial to determine the unavailability of an
ECM analysis for (56). Both the analysis with overt movement of the DP John to matrix Spec,
vP and the one without such movement hold several aspects in common with ECM analyses
adopted in the Government & Binding framework (Chomsky 1981, 1986 and references
therein): in all three possible analyses the embedded subject DP John receives an (external)
thematic role in the embedded clause, moves at least up to the embedded Spec, TP (IP in GB),
and has its Case assigned (in GB) or checked/valued (in Minimalism) by a matrix head that
assigns or checks/values accusative Case. Under any of these three analyses the derivation of
(56) would be ruled out, given that the head (AGR) of the embedded CG would end up not
satisfying its Case requirement.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
52
that cannot value the (accusative) Case of an internal argument. As predicted
by the analysis of CGs developed here, this is possible only in certain cases in
which there is not an accusative Case available in the matrix clause.
The first case is when a CG is generated as the complement of a passive
verb, as shown in the derivation of (57). According to the most widely adopted
analysis of passives, the passive morphology eliminates the matrix external θ-
role and the accusative Case position in the matrix clause [Spec, vP]. T2
(matrix T) matches/agrees with AGR, and AGR raises, pied-piping the whole
clause (TP1) to [Spec, TP2], in order to check the EPP feature in [Spec, TP2]
of the matrix clause. In [Spec, TP2] AGR (the T head of the CG) has its own
Case valued and is now able to value the Case of its subject Bill, with which it
has already established a Match/Agree relation in the course of the deriva-
tion.58
58
One issue arises in this case involving pied-piping of the whole CG to the subject position of
the matrix clause. What prevents the matrix T from probing only the embedded subject DP Bill
as its goal? Under a representational view, Bill c-commands AGR (the head T of CG), and
AGR does not c-command Bill, so in terms of c-command Bill should be closest for
Match/Agree with matrix T. So, the Match/Agree between matrix T and the embedded DP Bill
would be expected, but in fact it would yield a non-convergent derivation corresponding to
(60), which will be analyzed in detail later. But the question remains why both Bill and the
embedded AGR of CG are accessible goals for the matrix probe T, so that the convergent
derivation in (57) is in fact possible, under which it is the embedded AGR that works as the
goal for matrix T. There are two alternative solutions for this problem. First, it is possible to
adopt a derivational c-command approach (Epstein et al. 1998) to the relation between Bill and
AGR of CG, by which they mutually c-command each other, given that at an earlier point in
the derivation T c-commanded Bill. Second, it is possible to adopt an approach by which the
matrix probe T in fact attracts a feature of the whole embedded TP of CG, and not just of its
head independently. This is the approach to attract adopted for instance by Pesetsky & Torrego
(2001:363 (13)), as their Head Movement Generalization. Under this approach, given that
matrix T is in fact targeting either the embedded DP Bill or the embedded TP of CG, the two
goals are equidistant to matrix T, if closeness is still subsumed under c-command, and not
under domination (that is, neither Bill nor the embedded TP c-command each other in (57),
because the TP dominates Bill; therefore, both are equidistant to the matrix probe). Either the
Derivational C-command approach or the Head Movement Generalization approach can help
explain why the derivation of (55) does not induce a locality violation in the application of
Match/Agree.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 53
(57) Bill swimming was preferred.
a. [TP2 [TP1 Bill swimming][T’ [vP was preferred [TP1 Bill swimming]…
[ Case/ EPP /CaseAGR [ [ [ EPP θ ]…
b. TP2
2
TP1 T’
Bill swimming 2
VP
2
V’
2
was preferred TP1
2
Bill T’
2
AGR vP
2
Bill swimming
Other instances of CGs in subject position can be handled along the same
lines, including CGs as complements of raising verbs:
(58) [Bill swimming here] seems/is [[Bill swimming] impossible].
One important point shown by this and other remaining cases is that raising
the whole CG to the matrix [Spec, TP] is the only way in which both the Case
feature of the CG subject and the Case feature of the CG itself can be valued in
examples in which the CG is generated as complement of a passive verb or a
raising verb (cf. later the ungrammatical (60)-(62a)).59
In a certain sense, since
59
Notice, however, that cases such as (i) are impossible. I take the restriction here not to be
related to the properties of CGs alone, but to the general impossibility to raise the whole
embedded clause to the subject position of the bare raising verb seem, as seen also with
infinitive (ii) and finite clauses (iii):
(i) * [Bill swimming well] seems [Bill swimming here].
(ii) a. * [(For Bill) to swim well] seems [(for Bill) to swim well].
b. Bill seems [Bill to swim well].
(iii) a. * [That Bill swims well] seems [that Bill swims well].
b. It seems [that Bill swims well].
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
54
there is only one source of Case valuation in the matrix clause (the matrix T
head), that head has to value Case within the embedded CG in such a way that
both the embedded CG and the embedded subject DP can have their Case
feature valued.
The fact that a to-infinitive does not carry a Case feature, different from a
CG, explains why the same pied-piping process is not possible with infinitives,
because it does not allow subsequent Case valuation in the matrix [Spec, TP2]
of an overt subject DP (Bill in (59)) with to-infinitives. Despite its pied piping
to the matrix [Spec, TP] the infinitival clause does not have the necessary
feature specification to value Case of its own overt subject in (59a,b). Consider
the contrast with (59c), in which there is no embedded overt subject DP that
needs to have its Case valued, hence the derivation is grammatical with the
embedded infinitival:
(59) a. * [TP2 [TP1 Bill to swim here] is preferred].
b. * [TP2 [TP1 Bill to swim here] is/seems impossible].
c. [TP2 [TP1 to swim here] is/seems impossible].
Notice that clausal pied-piping involving all three types of clauses (CG, infinitive and finite
clauses) is grammatical with raising adjectival predicates such as seem impossible:
(iv) a. [Bill swimming here] seems impossible. (see (58)).
b. [(For Bill) to swim here] seems impossible.
c. [That Bill swims here] seems impossible.
This recurrent contrast shows that there are independent syntactic distinctions between bare
raising verbs such as seem and appear and raising predicates such as seems/appears impossi-
ble, is/seems (very) likely. However, the two sets of cases are still amenable to a common
analysis, if in the case of adjectival raising predicates like (iv) the embedded subject clause in
fact raises from inside a small clause headed by the adjectival predicate:
(v) a. [Bill swimming here] seems [[Bill swimming here] impossible]. (see (58)).
b. [(For Bill) to swim here] seems [[ (For Bill) to swim here] impossible].
Given this analysis, the restriction on pied-piping of the whole embedded clause can then be
shown to hold across the two different types of raising cases, since it would also apply to the
small clauses in (iv)-(v), as shown in (vi):
(vi) a. * [[Bill swimming here] impossible] seems [[Bill swimming here] impossible].
b. * [[(For Bill) to swim here] impossible] seems [ [(For Bill) to swim here]
impossible].
I put aside here further discussion about the motivation for this general restriction on clausal
pied-piping with raising predicates.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 55
Since a to-infinitive cannot be assigned Case, it cannot further value the
Case of its embedded subject (John) in (59a-b), and the derivation crashes.60
Consider now other derivations in which each type of CG (with a null or an
overt subject) is base generated as the complement of a matrix passive verb.
Given the absence of an accusative Case feature on the matrix VP, the CG fails
to have its Case valued, and instances such as (60) and (61) are always
ungrammatical. Consider the explanation for why (60) is ungrammatical
despite the fact that the DP subject Bill can have its Case valued in [Spec, TP2]
(matrix clause). The DP Bill is base generated as the external argument of the
CG, and moves to the matrix clause where it has its Case valued as nominative
Case. Given this, why should the sentence then be ungrammatical? Under the
analysis proposed here, there is only one Case checking/valuing head in the
matrix clause (T), as it is standardly assumed for the passive of transitive
verbs, and if this T head values the Case of Bill, this prevents the Case feature
(CAGR) of the CG from being checked/valued.
60
However, English has alternative cases (i) in which for can value the Case of the embedded
subject of infinitives in the same position as (59):
(i) [For Bill to swim] is/seems impossible.
Assuming that for is generated as a complementizer, it is possible to explain why this
alternative is not available for CGs in positions in which they would not otherwise have their
Case valued, given the fact that they do not project a CP (see section 2):
(ii) a. * It was impossible/preferred [for Bill swimming]. (see also (61)).
b. * Bill was preferred [for swimming]. (see also (60)).
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
56
(60) * Bill was preferred swimming.
[TP2 Bill [vP was preferred [TP1 Bill [T’ AGR [vP Bill swimming]]]...
[ φ/Case/EPP [EPP /*CaseAGR [ θ ]]]…
(61) * It was preferred [Bill swimming].61
The existence of these ungrammatical cases provides further support for
why T0
of CG itself needs to enter into Agree with the T head of the matrix
clause, pied-piping the whole clausal gerund as in (57) to satisfy the EPP.
Since there is only one Case position available in the matrix clause, it has to
value the Case feature of the CG, which can in turn value the Case feature of
its subject DP.62
The required pied-piping of the CG for satisfaction of the
matrix clause EPP, as in (57) and (58), allows the valuation of both Case
features in the clausal gerund (i.e. the one in the head T0
of CG and the one in
its DP subject).
61
In (61), it is also assumed that Agree and Case valuation cannot occur in instances in which
the category that needs to value its Case does not move overtly, when an expletive it could be
inserted in Spec, TP of the higher clause. One possible solution to this problem is to assume
that, under an Agree approach to expletive-associate structures, expletive it is assigned Case
and the extraposed clause remains caseless. This provides an explanation for why it-
extraposition is impossible with CGs (see section 2). The same kind of approach may be
necessary to rule out cases such as (i), in which one possibility is that the DP a man would not
have its Case valued, given that the matrix T can have its feature requirements satisfied and
become inactive by insertion of the expletive it, which also values its Case in the matrix [Spec,
TP]
(i) * It seems [to be a man in the yard].
However, this approach may require more complex mechanisms in order to be compatible with
recent analyses of there-existential constructions, in which the reason why there is licensed in
there-associate constructions is not taken to be dependent on Case, and the matrix T in there-
existentials is taken to be available to value Case of the associate DP (see e.g. Chomsky 2000,
2001 and Lasnik 1999, 2001a,b), yielding the grammatical (i) (see fn. 9 for references to
alternative approaches attempting to derive the EPP from independent mechanisms, see also
fn. 63):
(i) There seems [to be a man outside].
62
The approach to deletion of valued features adopted here is similar to the one in Chomsky
(2001:12). Features valued during a cycle remain active for further computation at least until
the strong phase level. That is, even though the φ-features of AGR (the T of CG) are valued,
they can remain active for further computation until the end of their strong phase, correspond-
ing either to matrix v (as in the case of (55)) or to matrix C (as in the case of matrix passive
and raising verbs ((57) and (58)).
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 57
A derivation along the same lines of (60) can account for the ungrammati-
cality of raising constructions with CGs, if it is assumed that the DP Bill in
(62a) is also base generated as an argument of the CG and raises to the matrix
clause for Case valuation, using up the only available Case feature in the
matrix clause. This in turn prevents the CG itself from satisfying its Case
requirement (for the alternative grammatical derivation in which the whole CG
raises to matrix [Spec, TP] see (57)-(58)). As is well-known, ungrammaticality
does not arise with standard raising-infinitive constructions when the embed-
ded subject raises out of the embedded clause for Case valuation, as in (62b).
This is due to the fact that infinitives, different from CGs, do not carry a Case
feature, under the analysis developed here, and only the embedded DP Bill
needs to have a Case feature valued in (62b). In this respect, compare examples
in which the whole infinitive would raise, yielding an ungrammatical deriva-
tion (59a, b), for the same reasons.
(62) a. * Bill seems [Bill swimming well]. 63
b. Bill seems [Bill to swim well].
In sum, the restrictive, unified analysis of CGs proposed for the different
cases above has the advantage of accounting for a large number of apparently
complex restrictions on the distribution of CGs in different syntactic contexts,
representing a significant improvement over previous approaches, which did
not consider the whole range of distinct cases analyzed here. Second, the
complex phenomena analyzed here are reduced to individual feature properties
of lexical heads in the derivation. Finally, this approach avoids an appeal to
unmotivated tense distinctions in the analysis of CGs, as discussed in section 3.
63
The restrictions on expletive constructions with CGs (see fn. 61) also extend to raising
constructions with CGs, presumably for the same reasons associated with the impossibility of
expletives in other cases: Expletive it needs to have its Case valued (i), and once that happens
in matrix [Spec, TP] of raising constructions, there is no other head that can value the Case
feature of the embedded CG. In the case of there expletives, if the Case valuation mechanism
underlying the there-associate DP interaction involves the need for an indefinite DP such as
the there-associate, (cf. (iii) below), this would explain why the whole CG clause cannot occur
in there-existentials (ii). That is, the CG itself does not have the semantic properties that
indefinite DPs have which allow them to be possible in there-existential constructions. This is
captured straightforwardly in the current analysis, under which CGs are not even analyzed as
DPs:
(i) * It seems [a man swimming well].
(ii) * There seems [a man swimming well].
(iii) * There seems [(Sue) to be (Sue) outside].
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
58
5 Overt Case marking and default Case?
One question I have not addressed so far is why the morphological realiza-
tion of Case of the embedded subject in (55) is apparently accusative (in the
case of a pronoun), despite the fact that it does not involve ECM. Consider one
possible account of this problem involving an appeal to default Case to account
for the morphological form of certain DPs. In this context, any discussion
about the issue of the morphological realization of Case in CGs benefits from a
contrast between gerunds and infinitives. First, one could suggest that CGs
allow overt subject DPs because these subjects receive default Case. However,
this raises significant problems regarding how a theory of default Case can be
restrictive enough to license DPs only in some contexts (e.g. gerunds), but not
in others (e.g. infinitives). One of the approaches to default case that is worked
out in more detail, Schütze (2001:208-9), argues that “restrictions on the
surface position of DPs, usually treated under the Case Filter (Chomsky 1981,
following unpublished work by Jean-Roger Vergnaud), cannot be implemented
by the same features that underlie case morphology, because morphological
case and abstract Case behave as separate systems.” Schütze goes on to refer to
abstract Case as structural licensing, and further argues that: “Default Case can
never “save” an otherwise invalid syntactic structure.” For him, “there are no
default case features in the syntax. If there were, they would render the Case
Filter vacuous.” Given this, Schütze argues that the possibility of overt subjects
of nonfinite clauses in certain languages [among which I include the English
CGs above] cannot be attributed to the availability of default Case. For Schütze
(2001:210) default case marking can arise only when other mechanisms of
Case marking do not apply, including abstract Case (structural licensing in
Schütze’s terms) that is assigned by a syntactic head — e.g. a verb or Infl
(following Chomsky 1995a). Although there are some unclear aspects
regarding the interaction between Case theory and Schütze’s proposal that
there is default morphological case, the satisfaction of Case requirements in
CGs has relevant properties that fall within the domain of (syntactic) abstract
Case, given that the syntactic structure directly determines that CGs (with and
without overt DP subjects) are excluded from caseless positions (see more
clearly, in section 4, the analysis of ungrammatical examples resulting from the
lack of Case valuation in different CGs).
A remaining question is whether the overt subject of CGs can receive only
accusative Case (51), identified by Schütze as the morphological default case
in English. First, clausal gerunds may at least for some speakers allow limited
alternation between an accusative-like form and a nominative form for their
overt subjects. Second, more importantly, a specific sub-class of clauses –
Absolute CGs, which I discuss next – in fact requires overt subjects marked as
nominative, for most speakers I tested. This raises problems for a default Case
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 59
approach, and indicates that the determination of specific Case morphology of
DP subjects in CGs involves more complex mechanisms than a single default
case. One of these possible mechanisms may involve the precise φ-
feature/agreement status of the head T of CG (see fn. 46 regarding φ-feature
specification of CGs).
CGs that occur as adjunct absolute clauses (63a) have different properties
regarding how they satisfy a Case requirement. In these instances the Case
marking on the clausal gerund is not clearly dependent on subcategorization of
the CG by a Case checking/valuing head. However, a similar possibility also
exists for certain topic DPs, which are not realized in a standard structural Case
position, as in (63b):
(63) a. Mike expected to win the game, he/him being the best athlete in
the school.
b. Mike/him, I never met.
However, in all other respects that I considered, Absolute CGs share proper-
ties with other CGs. More specifically, when they display a null subject they
consistently display properties of obligatory control. As I showed in section
3.2 for other CGs, in Absolute CGs the null subject is OC PRO. As evidence
for this, it must have an antecedent (64a). The antecedent of OC PRO must be
local (64b) and must c-command PRO (64c). OC PRO only permits a sloppy
interpretation under ellipsis (64d) and cannot have split antecedents (64e).
Finally, in cases involving only NP constructions (Fodor 1975), the binder of
PRO must be the expression formed by only + NP (64f).
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
60
(64) a. * It was expected to start the concert soon, PRO having turned the
lights off.
b. Johnj told Peterk that Marym would arrive on time, PRO?j/*k/m being
responsible for starting the conference.64
c. Peterk’s daughterj went on to college, PROj/*k being the best
student in the class.
d. Having kissed Mary at the door, Peter left the party with some
friends, and Bill did too.(= Bill kissed Mary and left).
e. PRO*j+k understanding the importance of a good education, Peterj
expected his sonk to go to a good college.
f. PROj,*k Having given the BST speech, [only Churchill]j was
congratulated by everybody.
Absolute CGs may also be taken to behave like other CGs regarding their
Binding Theory properties, which I discuss next, supporting the view that they
should be analyzed in a similar way. In different respects, the fact that
Absolute CGs display nominative Case on their overt subjects further indicates
that a default Case approach to case marking in CGs is not sufficient to explain
the complex Case properties of CGs.
6 Binding and Clausal Gerunds
In this section I propose additional empirical support that the distinction
between obligatory control CGs and non-obligatory control CGs correlates
with distinctions in the binding properties of the two classes of gerunds. In
general, I show that in all the cases of OC CGs, the matrix clause behaves as
the binding domain for the embedded CG. This includes CGs in the comple-
ment position of a verb (65a), in the complement position of subcategorized
preposition (65b); in adjuncts PPs, as the complement of a preposition (65c),
and in absolute constructions (65d). Consider first cases of pronoun binding by
a referential expression in the matrix clause:65
64
The fact that John in the higher matrix clause is marginally licensed as antecedent of the
embedded null subject is related to the fact that the adjunct Absolute CG can attach as an
adjunct either to the higher finite clause or to the intermediate one.
65
Reuland (1983) argues that CGs in PP adjuncts (65c) and Absolute CGs (65d) do not pattern
with CGs in V or P complement positions (65a/b) with respect to binding. I show here that all
these cases have a common behavior with respect to binding. Still, there is a significant
amount of variation among speakers regarding their judgments on binding involving CGs. The
judgments I report here correspond to the ones I obtained from the majority of the speakers I
tested.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 61
(65) a. The architectsj favored [them*j being placed upon the
investigations committee]. (Reuland 1983: (28a)).
b. Johnj counted on [him*j being elected] (Reuland 1983: (74a)).
c. Johnj left [without him*j having finished the report].
d. [Mike and Paul]*j called for assistance, them*j being unable to fix
the computer.66
The examples above indicate that the subject pronoun in the embedded CG
cannot be bound by the subject of the matrix clause. The four cases of CGs
above are exactly the ones that display the interpretive properties of OC PRO,
when the CG displays a null subject, and which I argued in section 4 to be the
result of A-movement. Recall that the main motivation for A-movement of the
embedded subject in the OC PRO cases is the need for the embedded DP
subject to check its uninterpretable Case feature in the domain of the matrix
clause. In that respect, there is a correlation between movement and binding,
since the matrix clause is not only the Case domain for the embedded CG
subject, but also its binding domain.
Assuming that cases of OC PRO result from NP movement, the fact that
only OC PRO gerunds take the matrix clause as their binding domain supports
an approach in which the same domain in which A-movement out of the
embedded gerund is possible is also the domain in which a pronoun cannot be
bound.67
This is similar to what one observes in standard cases of A-
movement, such as raising (66). The same correlation will be seen below with
anaphor binding:
66
However, notice that many speakers allow coreference between an embedded pronoun and
the matrix subject in certain instances of absolute constructions as (i) below:
(i) Mikek expected to win the game, hek being the best athlete in the school.
It is not clear why absolute constructions allow this possibility for certain speakers (especially
with a nominative subject pronoun), but I assume that specific facts about absolute construc-
tions in general may play a role here. One possibility is that absolute constructions may have a
status similar to focalized constituents, allowing their subject pronouns to avoid the restriction
on coreference imposed by Binding principles. As I will show in (69e), this distinctive
behavior of absolute constructions with respect to Binding Principle B goes away in cases of
pronoun binding by a quantifier, indicating that the correlation between pronoun binding and
the NP-movement of CG null subjects holds for Absolute CGs as well.
67
I attempt here to make a connection between the binding properties of gerunds and the
possibility that their subject moves to the matrix clause. I attempt to relate these facts to a
movement approach to the OC subjects of clausal gerunds.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
62
(66) Frank*k seems [Frank to Frank like himj/*k.]
In fact, Hornstein and San Martin (2000) argue for a more direct correlation
between the possibility of movement and the impossibility of coreference
between a pronoun in an embedded non-finite clause and a matrix DP. When
there is a derivation where movement of an embedded subject DP is possible
(e.g. yielding a null subject), inserting a pronoun in the position of that DP is
more costly. The only way for the derivation to take place with a pronoun is if
the pronoun is disjoint in reference from the potential antecedent in the matrix
clause. The CGs discussed here provide direct evidence for that proposal,
given that they allow either a null category (as the result of movement) or a
pronoun in the subject position. Since movement is an option, an overt
pronoun can only be licensed if it is disjoint in reference from a potential
antecedent in the matrix clause. Interestingly, this explains why coreference is
allowed in (67). Since adjuncts introduced by with require an overt subject,
there is no requirement for him to be disjoint in reference from James:
(67) Jamesi got beaten at the game, with himi stupidly letting his rivals
score several times. (Adapted from Reuland 1983: (69a)).
Consider now pronoun binding with subject CGs, the only case of CGs that
displays the interpretive properties of NOC PRO, which I analyze as not
involving A-movement. Crucially, CGs in subject position (68), differently
from the other types of CGs in (65), allow for coreference between the
embedded subject pronoun and a matrix DP. That indicates that CGs in subject
position are the only ones that function as a binding domain independent from
the matrix clause, which is again consistent with the movement analysis, since
A-movement from these CGs to the matrix clause is not allowed (see also
section 3.3):
(68) a. [Johnj getting good results at work] encouraged himj to stay in the
company.
b. [Himj getting good results at work] encouraged Johnj to stay in the
company.
Facts involving pronoun binding by a quantifier are stronger support for this
correlation, as shown below. A universally quantified DP in the matrix clause
cannot bind the embedded subject of any CG analyzed here as allowing A-
movement:
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 63
(69) a. Every playerk favored himj/*k playing in the finals.
b. Every employeek counted on himj/*k being chosen as the new
manager.
c. Every studentk left without himj/*k finishing the report.
d. He/himj/*k being a good actor, every studentk wanted to be in the
play.
e. Every studentk wanted to be in the play, he/himj/*k being a good
actor.
Embedded subject CGs as in (70a,b) pattern similarly to embedded finite
clauses (70c) in that they allow the quantifier in the matrix clause to bind the
embedded subject, because subject CGs function as independent domains for
binding, similarly to finite clauses and differently from other CGs:
(70) a. [Himj/?k winning the game] was important for every playerk
b. Every playerk said that [himj/?k winning the game was important].
c. Every studentk said [that hej/k studied for the exam].68
Consider now the licensing of anaphors as subjects of CGs. Consistent with
the facts involving pronoun binding, anaphors (reciprocals) are licensed in at
least three types of CGs that are also analyzed here as allowing A-movement,
namely, in verb complement position (71a); in the complement of a subcatego-
rized preposition (71b); and as the complement of PP adjuncts (71c):
(71) a. The architectsi favored [each otheri being placed upon the
investigations committee] (Reuland 1983, (29)).
b. The architectsi counted on [each otheri being placed upon the
investigations committee].
c. Theyi both disagreed with Bill [without each otheri noticing it].69
In the cases above, the binding domain for the anaphor is the matrix clause,
which suggests once more that there is a direct correlation between the
possibility of A-movement out of a CG and the fact that the matrix clause is
the binding domain in such cases. This is again supported by what one finds in
a standard case of A-movement:
68
Binding of the subject pronoun by a matrix DP may not be entirely perfect, but what is
crucial is that only subject CGs allow their pronoun subject to be bound by a universal
quantifier in the matrix clause, whereas other CGs do not allow this at all.
69
Reuland suggests that anaphors in the subject position of PP adjunct CGs are in general bad.
Although examples such as (71c) are difficult to come up with, they are considered good by
most speakers.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
64
(72) The kidsj seemed [ ___ to like each otherj]
Before I discuss Absolute CGs, consider anaphor binding in subject CGs.
The examples below show that an anaphor is not licensed in the subject
position of a CG that occurs in a subject position. This may be taken as one
more piece of evidence for the correlation between binding domains and the
analysis of control proposed here. Since subject CGs are cases of NOC, their
subject is not the result of A-movement to the matrix clause. Since the
embedded CG should be an independent domain for binding, an anaphor
cannot be licensed by a DP in the matrix clause, in such cases:
(73) a. * [Himself getting good results at work] encouraged John to stay in
the company.
b. * [Each other having to sing the solo] frightened the boys in the
extreme. (Reuland 1983:125).
Finally, let us discuss the only case of binding with CGs which does not
seem to fit in the picture presented above. Absolute CGs do not license
anaphors in their subject position, contrary to what might be expected.
However, if there is a consistent correlation between binding domains and the
OC/NOC distinction in CGs, Absolute CGs should allow anaphors in their
subject position, since they display OC PRO properties. However, that
prediction is not borne out:
(74) * They both disagreed with Bill, each other having already noticed
(it).
However, a possible explanation for the unexpected behavior of Absolute
CGs in this respect is the fact that anaphors are not licensed at all in the subject
position of Absolute CGs, independently from the fact that the matrix clause
functions as the binding domain for them. This constraint may be related to the
Anaphor Agreement Effect proposed by Rizzi (1990):
(75) Anaphor Agreement Effect
Anaphors do not occur in syntactic positions construed with
agreement.
Given the effect above, Woolford (1999) claims that the impossibility of
anaphors in certain positions may be used at least as weak evidence for the
presence of covert agreement. That suggests that what may rule out the
occurrence of anaphors in Absolute CGs is actually the fact that covert
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 65
agreement may occur with their subject position, differently from other CGs.
As I suggested in the analysis of the case properties of CGs in section 4, there
may be a reason to believe that this is possible, given that Case assignment to
the lexical subject of an Absolute CG might occur independently from the
matrix clause, differently from other types of CGs, and that may be related to a
covert agreement property that only shows up in Absolute CGs and maybe in
subject CGs,70
providing a different reason for why anaphors are not licensed
with subject CGs either, besides the fact that they should behave as independ-
ent domains for binding. However, notice that this is still not without
problems, and it does not warrant collapsing Absolute CGs and CGs in subject
position, given their differences in other respects. First, CGs in subject position
display NOC PRO as subject (section 3.2) and Absolute CGs show OC PRO
properties (section 5). Second, the contrast between Absolute CGs (see (65d)
and (69e)) and subject CGs (see (68) and (70)) regarding pronoun binding still
stands as evidence for their otherwise different behavior regarding binding.71
7 Case and agreement in non-finite domains
Before concluding this chapter, I discuss briefly some cross-linguistic data
that illustrate phenomena similar to CGs. In different respects, CGs behave like
a restricted set of non-finite clauses that occur in other languages, including
Basque, Portuguese and possibly Quechua. Basque has a set of non-finite
clauses that require overt morphological Case corresponding to the structural
position in which these complements occur, including the complement position
of a matrix verb and of a preposition. These clauses do not display distinctions
in inflection aside from Case, but a subset of them can license either overt
subjects or null subjects with control properties, as in the embedded clause in
70
If agreement features indeed come into play regarding Absolute CGs, their analysis may
then bear more similarities to Reuland 1983. Cf. Schütze 1997, 2001 for a less constrained
view on the licensing of overt subjects in non-finite domains in general (see section 5).
71
One might consider that the Anaphor Agreement Effect as proposed by Rizzi may be too
strict, if we consider NP-traces as a type of anaphor, under the approach to empty categories in
terms of (Binding Theory) functional determination (Chomsky 1982). Given this view, as also
pointed out by Jan-Wouter Zwart (p.c. 2005), one potential empirical problem for (75) has to
do with NP-movement in the presence of past participle agreement, which would generate an
NP-trace. This problem arises more clearly in a GB approach to movement, in which traces are
generated as the result of movement. Under Minimalism traces are banned because they do not
result directly from lexical insertion, giving place to approaches such as the Copy Theory of
Movement (Chomsky 1995a, Nunes 2004) and especially Remerge (Epstein et al. 1998), under
which no empty category is generated in the departure site of movement.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
66
(76) (see Ortiz de Urbina 1989:166-8).72
In fact, non-finite clauses that license
a lexical DP as their subjects in Basque have to be structurally Case-marked
themselves. These properties correspond exactly to the properties I argued here
to hold for CGs, with the only difference that in Basque the abstract Case
marking on the head of the clause also has an overt morphological counterpart.
Ortiz de Urbina argues that some of these Case-marked non-finite clauses in
Basque have an INFL affix -t(z)e that is attached to V, as in (76), in which the
embedded non-finite clause receives absolutive (A) Case marking:73
(76) [ __ / Rampalek flauta jotze]-a asko gustatzen zaio Jon-i.
ec / Rampal flute play-A much like aux John-D
‘John likes ( himself /Rampal) playing flute very much.’
Ortiz de Urbina also points out the difficulty of proposing an appropriate
analysis of non-finite clauses that can license either an overt or a control null
subject, given that different theories of Case and control argue that overt
subjects have to be excluded in positions in which control null subjects are
possible, and vice-versa. If an analysis for this kind of alternation along the
lines of the one developed in this chapter (see previous section) is on the right
track, it may also be considered for Basque. Embedded -t(z)e clauses such as
(76) carry a Case feature that needs to be valued, and once this Case valuation
takes place, the embedded -t(z)e clause could presumably also value the Case
of its own subject.74
Quechua displays non-finite clauses that arguably are also overtly Case
marked by a case-ending, represented by -paq ‘for’ (they also show overt
realization of person and number φ-features). Crucially, these Quechua clauses
allow overt subjects. (Ortiz de Urbina 1989:168(55)):
(77) t’anta-ta apamurqan [wawaykuna mikhu-na-nku-paq]
Bread-ACC brought my children eat-NOM-3PL-for
‘He brought bread so that my children eat.’
72
See also Zabala & Odriozola 1996, San Martin 2004 and references therein.
73
Ortiz de Urbina (1989: 171-3) argues that –t(z)e non-finite clauses have properties that are
specific to clauses and different from nominals, and provides empirical evidence similar to
what I showed for CGs in section 2. For instance, the arguments of –t(z)e clauses cannot occur
in the genitive case, different from subjects of noun phrases. Also, –t(z)e clauses accept
adverbial, but not adjectival modification, contrary to DPs.
74
Embedded subjects of non-finite -t(z)e clauses display the same morphological case marking
as subjects of tensed clauses and do not present, in this respect, the same problem that arises in
the arguably corresponding English CG clauses, in which the embedded subjects are marked
either as accusative or, less often, as nominative case (see section 5).
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 67
Portuguese displays non-finite clauses that can have either an overt or a null
subject. An inflected counterpart of these infinitives displays overt person and
number agreement, so it can license overt subjects (78). Crucially, as Raposo
(1987) argues, inflected infinitives can appear only in those contexts where the
infinitival clause (analyzed as IP by Raposo), is assigned Case by an external
Case assigner (although Portuguese does not display overt Case marking, aside
from the pronominal system, similar to English). The non-inflected infinitives
lack overt agreement morphology and as I will argue in chapter 3 license only
null subjects with obligatory control/OC properties (analyzed as PRO in the
standard approach to control in infinitives).75
(78) Nós lamentamos [ eles ter-em recebido pouco dinheiro].
We regret they have-INF-3P received little money
‘We regret them having received little money.’
Together with English CGs, the structures above correspond in general to
non-finite clauses that have to occur in Case positions, arguably because they
need to value their own Case feature (in which case they may display overt
Case morphology at least in Basque and possibly in Quechua). Furthermore,
these Case-marked structures can value the Case of an embedded overt subject,
but may also allow the occurrence of a null subject. The Case requirement on
the whole clause may constitute a requirement for the possible occurrence of a
lexical subject. These properties suggest that CGs licenses lexical subjects in a
way similar to Basque infinitives, and possibly similarly to Portuguese and
Quechua infinitives as well. The relevant non-finite structures in these
languages would then behave similarly in their syntax, and differ only as to
whether they display overt morphological marking for Case and/or overt φ-
feature distinctions.76
75
In different respects, Portuguese inflected infinitives also behave like clauses, and not like
DPs, as observed for English CGs and for Basque -t(z)e non-finite clauses. However, assuming
that the distinction in the overt realization of agreement features in inflected and non-inflected
infinitives requires a parallel distinction in the feature specification of their Tense head, then
Portuguese cannot be entirely collapsed with English (and possibly Basque) regarding the
possibility explored in this chapter that a Tense head with a single specification for agreement
and Case yields the derivation of non-finite clauses with both overt and OC null subjects. See
chapter 3 for an independent analysis of the two types of Portuguese infinitives.
76
It is not clear whether Quechua clearly allows the alternation between null and overt subjects
found in the corresponding non-finite clauses in the other languages. Notice also that the
Quechua example in (77) may in fact find a correspondent in English for-infinitival clauses,
which, different from the non-finite clauses discussed here, does not display the possibility of
an alternation between an overt and null subject (i). However, notice that such an alternation
may be found in Belfast English (see Henry 1992), in a way that is at least partially similar to
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
68
In such languages the problem is how to distinguish the feature properties
of a non-finite clause with a null subject from the corresponding clause with a
lexically overt subject, especially if they are morphologically identical and in
general have the same distribution, as it is the case with English CGs and
Basque non-finite –t(z)e clauses.77
In this chapter, I proposed an analysis that
eliminates the need to distinguish the internal structure of the two types of
clauses in English, especially given the absence of empirical distinctions in the
feature specification of CGs that allow the alternation between overt and with
null subjects.
8 Conclusion
This chapter analyzed the special properties of clausal gerunds (CGs) in
English and proposed an analysis that attempted to explain a host of restric-
tions in their distribution, which had not all been previously analyzed.
The analysis developed here accounts in a unified way for why CGs can
license both overt and null subjects, despite the lack of syntactic feature
distinctions between both instances. The existence of structures such as CGs
which license overt subjects or control null subjects exactly in the same
context raises significant problems for theories of Case and of control. The
chapter presents in detail empirical problems raised by CGs for null
Case/tense-based approaches to control. It addresses these problems by
proposing an analysis in which the possibility of the two types of subjects in
CGs results from the interaction of the same grammatical mechanisms, the
ones involved in Case and agreement valuation. The proposed analysis adopts
what I discussed here for CGs. Standard English allows this alternation in a much more limited
way with to-infinitives, in complement position of verbs such as want (see e.g. Pesetsky
1991:18, Bošković 1997).
(i) [For Bill/ (*e) to leave the room] would require calling security.
77
San Martin (2004) investigates the properties of control clauses in Basque, by also arguing
against the null Case approach. However, she adopts the view that control corresponds only to
[+tense] clauses whereas raising corresponds to [–tense], a view that I argue is empirically
insufficient, as I argued in section 3.1 and also in chapters 2 and 3. Kapetangianni & Seely
(2003) propose a movement analysis for OC PRO in na-clauses in Greek, which can display
both OC and NOC properties, despite their lack of morphological distinction in terms of
agreement features (cf. Philippaki-Warburton 1987, Terzi 1992, 1997, Iatridou 1988/1993,
Varlokosta 1994, Philippaki-Warburton & Catsimali 1999, and references therein). I return to
these issues in chapter 3.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF CLAUSAL GERUNDS 69
an A-movement analysis of control CGs without appealing to distinctions in
the feature specification of the two types of CG.
CHAPTER 2
CLAUSAL VERSUS TP-DEFECTIVE GERUNDS:
CONTROL WITHOUT TENSE
In this chapter I explore the idea that there is a class of complement gerunds
that do not project a TP, contrary to the clausal gerunds analyzed in chapter 1. I
address the consequences of this hypothesis for an approach to restructuring
predicates and for theories of control.
1 A Class of Gerunds without a TP
The gerund complements of aspectual verbs (e.g. start, finish, continue as in
(1)) and of verbs such as try and avoid (2) seem to belong to a class of gerunds
that is distinct from the clausal gerunds found as complements of other verbs.
Furthermore, as I will show in section 6, these complement gerunds, which I
call TP-defective gerunds from now on, cannot be collapsed with gerunds that
are complements to perception verbs.
(1) Mary started/finished/continued reading the newspaper.
(2) a. Billj tried [ej talking to his boss].
b. Philipj avoids [ej driving on the freeway].
I present two empirical arguments that support the view that TP-defective
gerunds are distinct from clausal gerunds in that they have a defective
T(ense)P. I assume here a non-split TP, given that a more fine-grained, split
inflectional phrase structure will not bear directly on the points I want to make.
I will address the consequences of two alternative analyses of TP-defective
gerunds. First, I consider the possibility, which I refer to as the weak hypothe-
sis, that TP-defective gerunds do project a TP, but the head of their TP is
specified as [−Tense], in the sense of Stowell (1982). Second, I consider a
CLAUSAL VERSUS TP-DEFECTIVE GERUNDS 71
strong hypothesis, that TP-defective gerunds do not project a TP at all.1
In
addition, I address the consequences of both alternatives for an analysis of
control.
1.1 No independence in terms of tense and aspect specification
The first argument supporting the existence of a distinct class of
TP-defective gerunds is the fact that they do not have a tense and aspect
specification independent from the matrix clause. First, they do not allow the
occurrence of embedded temporal adverbials distinct from the matrix clause
(3), a possibility that exists with clausal gerunds (4):
(3) a. * Billj tried today [ej talking to his boss tomorrow].
b. * Philipj avoided last night [ej driving on the freeway this
morning].
(4) Maryj worried (yesterday) about Paul/him/ej coming to dinner
(tonight).
The impossibility of independent temporal adverbials with TP-defective
gerunds can be explained if temporal adverbials adjoin to TP or are licensed by
TP2
– that is, they still need to have a TP dominate them. If these gerunds do
not project a TP, there is no position where a temporal adverbial independent
from the matrix clause can be attached.
Second, TP-defective gerunds do not easily allow for perfective morphol-
ogy (5), differently from clausal gerunds (6)-(7).
(5) a. * Mark tried [having convinced his friends].
b. * John will avoid [having talked to Mary].
(6) a. Mark counted on [having convinced his friends].
b. John will remember [having talked to Mary].
(7) a. Ann counts on [John having finished the exam by now].
b. Paul remembers [having been to Chicago].
1
Chierchia (1984) entertained a more radical version of the latter hypothesis in a different
framework, by attempting to account for the properties of TP-defective gerunds in terms of a
syntactic-semantic distinction. I put aside here certain aspects of the semantic distinction and
focus on a syntactic account of their defectiveness.
2
But see Cinque 1999 for a more complex view regarding the projection of adverbials.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
72
1.2 No projection of a lexical subject
The second argument supporting the view that TP-defective gerunds do not
project a TP is the fact that they do not allow an overt subject, either a regular
DP or an expletive there (8), which are both possible with clausal gerunds (9).
(8) a. * Clark tried [Mary taking care of the finances].
b. * Mary avoided [there being too many people in the party].
(9) a. David prefers [Mary taking care of the finances].
b. Paul insists on [there being many people interested in his
inventions].
Consider the two hypotheses I propose here to interpret this fact. Under the
weak hypothesis, TP-defective gerunds have a [Spec, TP] position, but it does
not license structural Case for an overt DP. That hypothesis accounts for the
distinction between TP-defective and clausal gerunds in terms of their
structural Case licensing properties. Note that this still argues in favor of some
sort of deficiency of the TP projection in a TP-defective gerund. By the strong
hypothesis, the impossibility of an overt lexical subject in TP-defective
gerunds is the result of their lacking a TP projection altogether, eliminating the
position within the TP-defective gerund where Case can be assigned to a
subject.
2 Restructuring Gerunds?
Given the facts above, one could take TP-defective gerunds to be a class of
restructuring predicates (RPs). This is consistent with the fact that the proper-
ties of TP-defective gerunds extend to gerunds in the complement position of
aspectual verbs (10), a class of verbs usually analyzed as selecting restructur-
ing predicates.
(10) Mary started/finished/continued reading the newspaper.
There are many different approaches to restructuring predicates in the litera-
ture. I consider here the one proposed by Wurmbrand (2001) to restructuring
infinitives (RI). Wurmbrand characterizes restructuring infinitives in terms of a
cluster of properties. Let us consider them in turn and see whether they extend
to TP-defective gerunds.
First, restructuring infinitives lack complementizer properties. This property
seems to extend to gerunds in general, and not only to TP-defective gerunds. (I
argued for that regarding clausal gerunds in chapter 1). Two pieces of evidence
CLAUSAL VERSUS TP-DEFECTIVE GERUNDS 73
indicate that there is no CP projection available in CGs. That evidence extends
to TP-defective gerunds. First, they do not allow the occurrence of comple-
mentizers (11a), unlike to−infinitives and finite clauses (11b-c):
(11) a. Ann avoided (*for/*that) working at home.
b. Ann wants very much for Mike to work at home.
c. Mark prefers that Mary travel with him.
Second, TP-defective gerunds can never occur as indirect questions; that is,
short wh-movement is always excluded (12b), similarly to clausal gerunds
(13b) and contrary to to-infinitives (14b).
(12) a. John didn’t avoid [buying groceries].
b. * John didn’t avoid what [buying t].
(13) a. John didn’t remember [buying groceries].
b. * John didn’t remember what [buying t].
(14) a. John didn’t remember [to buy groceries].
b. John didn’t remember [what to buy t].
Consider now an apparent problem for the argument that gerunds do not
project a CP. Long wh-movement applies freely out of TP-defective gerunds
(15) (see Reuland 1983 for clausal gerunds (16)).
(15) What did you try [reading t yesterday]?
(16) a. What do you prefer [studying t]?
b. Who do you want [t taking care of the company]?
Given that gerunds lack a CP projection, the moved constituent in (15)-(16)
raises directly from its base position inside the embedded gerund to the [Spec,
CP] of the higher clause. This is consistent with the conception of phases in
Chomsky (2000, 2001). If gerunds were phases, the wh-element would need to
move to the edge of that phase in order to be able to move later to [Spec, CP]
of the higher clause. Chomsky argues that TPs are not phases. This applies
straightforwardly to clausal gerunds, argued to be TPs in chapter 1.. The
argument extends to TP-defective gerunds, argued here to be even more
structurally defective than clausal gerunds. Therefore, an element internal to a
gerund is accessible for movement directly to the matrix clause, without
landing at any intermediate site, given that the gerund itself projects only up to
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
74
a TP. In fact, as a gerund is not a phase, it does not define an edge that could
count as an intermediate landing site for purposes of movement.
The second property of restructuring infinitives pointed out by Wurmbrand
(1998) is the fact that they carry no tense information independent from the
matrix clause. As the tests with temporal adverbials in section 1.1 indicate,
TP-defective gerunds seem to behave in a similar way.
Nevertheless, there are three other properties of RIs that do not seem to hold
in the case of TP-defective gerunds. First, Wurmbrand (1998) argues that RIs
do not have an embedded structural (accusative) Case position. She shows that
the object of a RI raises (overtly or covertly) to the higher verbal domain in
order to check its accusative Case. For instance, this is supported by long
object movement from RIs in German (Wurmbrand 1998:24(5), 2001):
(17) ... weil [der Lastwagen und der Traktor] zu reparieren versucht
wurden/* wurde.
since [the truck and the tractor]-NOM to repair tried
were /* was
‘…since somebody tried to repair the truck and the tractor.’
However, English TP-defective gerunds do not allow the kind of
long-distance object movement shown by Wurmbrand for German RIs. This
suggests that TP-defective gerunds have an embedded accusative Case
position, contrary to Wurmbrand’s RIs. In fact, there doesn’t seem to exist
similar supporting evidence for this property of Wurmbrand’s analysis with
respect to English to-infinitives either, especially considering that object shift
is at least optionally attested in English (see Lasnik 1999 and references
therein).
Second, Wurmbrand argues that RIs lack [Spec, vP] altogether, and are also
unable to license a syntactic subject. The absence in a RI of a position for an
external argument rules out not only the possibility of an overt lexical subject,
but also the possibility of a PRO in the embedded RI. Finally, Wurmbrand
argues that try-type RIs in languages like German, Dutch and Italian involve
semantic control along lines similar to what was proposed by Chierchia (1984).
That is, the embedded external argument position is eliminated, preventing the
occurrence of either an embedded overt subject or a PRO, as shown in (18)
with an English example.
(18) [CP[TP John [vP John [VP tried ["VP" to visit [DP his sister]]
In this respect, Wurmbrand argues that non-restructuring infinitives (NRIs)
project an embedded PRO subject (syntactic, non-obligatory or variable
control), whereas RIs do not involve an embedded syntactic subject (seman-
CLAUSAL VERSUS TP-DEFECTIVE GERUNDS 75
tic/obligatory control). In support of that distinction, Wurmbrand argues for
instance that in German RIs there is no (PRO)-argument available as an
antecedent for embedded anaphors (19), differently from NRIs (20) (Wurm-
brand 1998:26(7)).
(19) *…weil {sich} der Fisch {sich} vorzustellen versucht wurde.
RI
since self the-NOM fish-NOM self to-imagine tried was
‘...since someone tried to recall the image of the fish.’
(20) Es wurde versucht [PROj sichj den Fisch mit Streifen
vorzustellen].NRI
It was tried [PRO self the-ACC fish with stripes
to-imagine]
‘People tried to imagine what the fish would look like with stripes.’
On one hand, this contrast does not extend to English TP-defective gerunds,
which would be ungrammatical in cases such as (21). TP-defective gerunds
show obligatory control PRO, which requires a local, c-commanding antece-
dent, allowing anaphors to be bound in OC PRO contexts (as I show in section
4).
(21) * It was tried [nominating oneself for the prize].
On the other hand, there seems to be evidence from Theta theory supporting
the view that TP-defective gerunds do project an external argument position,
given the fact that they assign an external θ-role independent from the matrix
clause. A similar argument has been made by Bošković (1994) for RIs (contra
Wurmbrand). This indicates that although TP-defective gerunds do not seem to
project to a TP, they do project [Spec, vP] where the embedded external θ-role
and accusative Case obtain. That distinguishes them from the class of RIs
discussed by Wurmbrand (1998, 2001) and others. In this respect, the structure
of a TP-defective gerund should be as in (22):
(22) [CP[TP Mary [vP Mary [VP tried [vP PRO [VP calling [DP her friends]]
Still, if TP-defective gerunds do have their own external argument inde-
pendent from the matrix clause, why must it not be overt, contrary to what can
be the case with clausal gerunds? Furthermore, the null-subject (represented
until here as PRO) of TP−defective gerunds can only have obligatory control
properties. I account for these facts in section 4.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
76
3 Control and Null Case
As seen in the previous section, TP-defective gerunds do not allow for an
overt subject, although they do license their own external argument in the form
of a null subject. The alternative that immediately comes to mind given most
Principles & Parameters accounts is to treat this null subject as PRO, as in (22)
above. I also provided evidence supporting either one of two possibilities:
TP-defective gerunds do not project up to a TP at all (strong hypothesis), or if
they do project to a TP, this TP does not allow a temporal specification distinct
from the matrix clause (weak hypothesis). These properties may be a road-
block for a widely accepted P&P account for the distribution of PRO: the null
Case theory (originally proposed by Chomsky & Lasnik 1993).
The strong hypothesis poses a major problem for the version of the null
Case theory proposed by Chomsky and Lasnik (1993), who argue that non-
finite clauses assign null Case to their PRO subjects in [Spec, TP] (see also
Chomsky 2000, 2001): If TP-defective gerunds do not project a TP and still
need to license PRO, there is no position where null Case can be assigned.
As I discussed in chapter 1 (section 3.1), Martin (1996, 2001) has offered
arguments for a revision of the null Case theory that does not eliminate the
need for null Case, but restricts its occurrence and the possibility of licensing
PRO to non-finite constructions specified as [+Tense] in the sense of Stowell
(1982). According to Stowell, the event-time of a control infinitive as in (23a)
is unrealized with respect to the event-time of the matrix clause. Bresnan
(1972) refers to that tense as a possible future. Stowell argues that raising (23b)
and ECM infinitives (23c), on the other hand, do not have an internally
specified unrealized tense, and may vary among different tense specifications
(past, present or future), as determined by the properties of the matrix verb.
Martin emphasizes that distinction, but proposes a slight revision in the tense
interpretation of raising/ECM infinitives by arguing that the time/interval
denoted by them must actually coincide with the matrix event-time. Given the
interpretive distinction that Stowell originally proposed, he argued that control
infinitives have a feature [+Tense], which was later taken by Martin to check
the null Case of PRO. On the other hand, Martin argued that ECM/raising
infinitives would have a feature [−Tense], which for Martin cannot check null
Case.
(23) a. John decided [PRO to leave].
b. Ann seemed [t to be interested in the new job].
c. Bill believed Mary [t to be a good friend].
Given the above, the strong hypothesis for the analysis of TP-defective
gerunds is also a problem for Martin’s (1996, 2001) revision of the null Case
CLAUSAL VERSUS TP-DEFECTIVE GERUNDS 77
theory, because TP-defective gerunds (24a) pattern with subject control
infinitives in that there are two external θ-roles to be assigned: one in the
embedded clause and the other one in the matrix clause. In this respect, the null
subject in the embedded clause must be a PRO, given that in Martin’s theory
the Government & Binding version of the θ-criterion is enforced (see Chom-
sky 1986), and each θ-role must be assigned to a different argument. Although
this pattern also extends to clausal gerunds (24b), TP-defective gerunds would
lack a position where null Case can be assigned in order to license PRO
(contrary to fact (24a)), under the hypothesis that they do not project a TP.
(24) a. Bill tried/continued [TP PRO talking to his boss].
b. John prefers [TP PRO working at night].
The weak hypothesis also creates difficulties for a tense-based null Case
theory. However, in this instance the problem is not be restricted to
TP-defective gerunds, and partly extends to the analysis of clausal gerunds, as
I also argued in chapter 1. Stowell (1982) argues that the tense of gerunds is
completely malleable to the tense of the matrix clause, contrary to control
infinitives. That is, instead of having a fixed time frame with respect to the
matrix verb, gerunds can vary their tense specification according to the
properties of the matrix verb, as in (25). In this respect, (clausal) gerunds differ
from control infinitives in that gerunds do not have a fixed event-time with
respect to the event-time of the matrix clause.
(25) a. Jenny remembered [bringing the wine]. (Stowell 1982 (8b)).
(= She remembered a past event of bringing the wine).
b. Jim counted (yesterday) on [watching a new movie (tonight)].
(= He counted on a future event of watching).
Given the above, Stowell proposes that gerunds in general carry a [−Tense]
specification. This could offer a problem for a version of the null Case theory
that relies on a [+Tense] specification in order for PRO to be licensed. First, as
I showed in chapter 1 (section 3.2) regarding clausal gerunds, the fact that
distinct temporal specifications can occur in the matrix and in the embedded
clause (25) may constitute support for the idea that CGs allow a [+tense]
specification. The problem I pointed out there for both Government & Binding
and null Case approaches to control is that CGs allow both OC PRO and overt
subjects to occur in the same domain.
However, the proposal Stowell makes that gerunds are [−Tense] in fact
holds for TP-defective gerunds, and that specification would prevent null Case
from being assigned to their PRO subjects, under Martin’s analysis. The
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
78
evidence for [−Tense] with TP-defective gerunds is that they do not allow for
any kind of temporal specification distinct from the matrix predicate (26), in
contrast to clausal gerunds (25), as already discussed in section 1.1. In this
respect, TP-defective gerunds (with PRO subjects) are identical in tense
specification – that is, [−Tense] – to what Martin (1996, 2001) takes to be the
tense specification of raising and ECM infinitives, under the view that the
time/interval denoted by a [−Tense] non-finite clause must actually coincide
with the matrix event-time.
(26) * Philip avoided last night [PRO driving on the freeway this morning].
In fact, a restriction in terms of temporal specification also exists for control
to-infinitives that are complements to restructuring predicates (see Wurmbrand
1998). However, notice that this restriction sometimes is not as strong as it is
with a corresponding TP-defective gerund. For instance, a predicate like try
that usually requires a partial overlap between its own event-time and the
event-time of the embedded to-infinitive might not allow for examples like
(27b). However, (27b) is still possible with a specific reading in which ‘Jim
took some step yesterday to be able to take a flight today at Dulles’. The
corresponding gerund (27c) is significantly degraded under any reading,
supporting the argument that TP-defective gerunds do not allow for any
independence of tense specification between the matrix and the embedded
predicate, contrary to the corresponding to-infinitive examples.
(27) a. Jim decided yesterday [to take a flight today at Dulles].
b. # Jim tried yesterday [to take a flight today at Dulles].
c. *? Jim tried yesterday [taking a flight today at Dulles].
The facts above support Stowell’s (1982) argument that gerunds can be
[−Tense], different from control infinitives (although gerunds such as clausal
gerunds are [+tense], as I showed in chapter 1). This is clearly so with
TP-defective gerunds, which do not allow for any kind of tense specification
distinct from the matrix predicate. Combined with the need for these gerunds
to assign an external θ-role, both the weak and strong accounts considered here
(lack of a TP or occurrence of a [−Tense] head) argue against versions of the
null Case theory that postulate the existence of a PRO whose null Case must be
checked in [Spec, TP]. This adds to the empirical problems for a null Case
approach to Control that were summarized and discussed in the Introduction
(section 2), and in chapter 1 (section 3.1).
Further problems of a more conceptual nature arise with respect to the null
Case theory or other theories that rely on the existence of PRO. First, besides
CLAUSAL VERSUS TP-DEFECTIVE GERUNDS 79
the need to account for the distribution of PRO, extra operations are necessary
to identify the antecedent of obligatory control PRO (OC PRO). Second, these
theories need specific mechanisms to distinguish OC PRO from non-obligatory
control PRO. Finally, certain questions arise with respect to how control relates
to Case theory. One may wonder why it is that Null Case is restricted to just
one type of null argument (PRO), not even extending to pro, a null argument
that can co-exist with PRO in many languages other than English, and in
certain languages can correspond to both null subjects and null objects. PRO,
on the other hand, can only occur in [Spec, TP], where it gets null Case,
whereas other overt and non-overt (pro) arguments can check different types of
structural Case (accusative, nominative) depending on the position where they
occur.3
Such facts indicate that null Case and PRO are extremely specific
devices in the grammar, and their existence may be at odds with the goals of
P&P and especially the Minimalist Program to devise overarching principles
that account for a wide range of phenomena at the same time, without overlap-
ping unnecessarily with other mechanisms of the grammar. In section 4 I apply
to gerunds a theory that derives PRO as the result of DP-movement (see also
Hornstein 1999, 2001), circumventing most of these conceptual problems and
the empirical problems that gerunds pose for the null Case theory. In the next
section I address other empirical problems for the null Case approach to
Control.
3.1 Problems for a Tense/event binding approach to Null Case
In the analysis of gerunds above I focused on the connection between a
[±Tense] specification for non-finite domains in the sense of Stowell (1982)
and the null Case theory of Martin (1996, 2001). In Martin’s theory only
[+Tense, −Finite] T can assign null Case to PRO. According to Stowell, only
control infinitives, but not raising and ECM infinitivals, are specified as
[+Tense]. For Martin, this explains why only control infinitivals should be able
to assign null Case to PRO. As I argued in this and previous chapters, this
proposal is undermined by many mismatches in the correlation between tense
distinctions and control/non-control domains (see Introduction, section 2 (15)).
Martin, however, follows Enç (1990) and explores a further development in
his analysis. Enç argues that eventive predicates project a temporal argument
(or variable, in Martin 2001: 150) that needs to be bound by tense or some
other operator in order to denote an individuated event. Other possible binders
for this temporal argument/variable are modals, aspectual be and have and
quantificational adverbs of frequency. In the absence of the appropriate
3
One aspect that may weaken this argument is that overt pronominal forms (he, him) are
restricted with respect to the Case positions where they can occur.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
80
operator, only state denoting or habitual predicates should be possible. If ECM
and raising infinitival complements do not have tense features, the ungram-
maticality of (28) is explained, because the embedded eventive predicate
(which denotes an individuated event) contains an event variable that requires
tense or some other (temporal) operator to be bound, which in Martin’s terms
is not available in these domains (Martin 1996: 59 (82)):
(28) a. * Everyone believed [Rebecca to win the game right then].
b. * The doctor showed [Bill to take the wrong medicine at that exact
time].
c. * The defendant seemed to the DA [t to conspire against the
government at that exact time].
In this respect, the grammaticality of (29) is explained by the fact that the
embedded infinitive does not denote an individuated event, and thus does not
require an event binder as the examples in (28) do.
(29) a. John believed [Bill to be nice].
b. John seemed [t to play tennis well].
Given this account, Martin proposes that the ungrammaticality of an exam-
ple like (30) is due to the fact that PRO cannot be licensed as the embedded
subject, because the infinitival complement of believe does not carry an event
binder, and thus is not specified as [+Tense], a requirement in his account for a
PRO subject to be licensed.
(30) * John believed [PRO to be nice].
Let me consider the behavior of gerunds with respect to Martin’s (1996,
2001) revised analysis in terms of event binders. Interestingly, gerunds also
present problems for that revised analysis, similar to what I have already
shown in the case of the approach restricted to a [± Tense] specification. In
Martin’s terms, gerunds that license a null subject identified as PRO should not
need an overt event binder in order to be able to denote an individuated event.
At first one might consider that to be the case in examples like (31). Crucially,
in these examples the embedded gerund can be interpreted as an event that
took place at a specific time in the past (denoting an individuated event), which
can also be shown by the fact that time adverbs such as yesterday and last week
can be added to the embedded clause.
(31) a. Mark hated/ loved talking to Mary.
b. Paul preferred dreaming of sirens.
CLAUSAL VERSUS TP-DEFECTIVE GERUNDS 81
This would support Martin’s analysis, given that gerunds, which license
null subjects interpreted as PRO, would then carry a [+Tense] specification by
virtue of their possibility to bind an individuated event without the need for an
overt event binder. However, as I show below, contrary to the prediction made
by Martin’s analysis, this individuated event interpretation is possible in the
examples above not because of a property internal to the embedded gerund, but
because of the past tense used in the matrix clause. This has connections with
the discussion about the tense dependence of most (TP-defective) gerunds with
respect to the matrix clause, which I analyzed in detail in section 1. Consider
the examples in (32). Different from (31), in these examples the embedded
gerund cannot denote an individuated event, but can only be interpreted with a
habitual reading. Given Martin’s approach, one cannot explain why these
gerunds that license a control PRO subject cannot have an individuated event
interpretation in the absence of a modal/temporal operator.
(32) a. Mark hates/loves talking to Mary.
b. Paul prefers dreaming of sirens.
First, one might take this to be related to the restrictions associated with the
use of the present tense in English. However, examples with verbs that take
clausal gerunds as in (33) show that the use of the present tense in the matrix
clause does not prevent the embedded gerund from having an individuated
event interpretation, even in the absence of overt event operators. Different
from (32), the embedded (clausal) gerunds in these examples can have an
individuated event interpretation even though the matrix clause is in the
present tense, as indicated in (34):
(33) a. I remember dreaming of sirens.
b. I count on talking to Mary.
(34) a. I remember dreaming of sirens after taking five aspirins before
bedtime yesterday.
b. I count on talking to Mary tomorrow.
Incidentally, an additional aspect that the data I analyze here indicate is that
the event binding property of certain embedded gerunds may in fact be dictated
by the tense properties of the matrix clause (but see e.g. Rooryck 2000 for a
GB proposal that may make different predictions). Consider again the gerunds
as complements to psychological verbs such as hate/love, now embedded
under a matrix future tense (35). In this case again, the individuated event
interpretation appears in the embedded gerund, similar to (31) but contrary to
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
82
(32). However, given that in (32) the embedded gerund maintains its control
properties identically to (31) and (33)-(35), it is unexpected given Martin’s
theory that the individuated event interpretation is only possible in the latter
cases.
(35) Bill will hate/love being evicted at the time he pays the rent.
Therefore, these facts indicate important problems for a tense/event-binding
null Case theory of control. Even though the gerunds discussed so far (CGs
and TP-defective gerunds) license null subjects with the properties associated
with PRO, it is not the case that they consistently display the properties
necessary to bind individuated events and to carry a [+Tense] specification,
which are required in Martin’s (1996, 2001) proposal (also adopted by
Bošković 1997) in order to license the null Case assigned to PRO.
Given these and other conceptual problems I analyzed before (see e.g.
chapter 1, section 3.1), in the next section I extend to TP-defective gerunds the
same approach to control as the result of NP-movement which I applied to
clausal gerunds in chapter 1.
4 Deriving control and lack of overt subjects in TP-defective gerunds
I return now to the two other properties of TP-defective gerunds. First,
although TP-defective gerunds have an embedded external argument, why is it
that they only allow a null subject (36) (PRO in the null Case theory), contrary
to clausal gerunds, which allow either an overt or a non-overt subject (37)?
(36) a. John tried [PRO swimming].
b. * I tried [John swimming].
(37) a. I prefer [PRO staying at home].
b. I prefer [Mary staying at home].
Second, the null subject of TP-defective gerunds can have only obliga-
tory-control properties, differently from clausal gerunds (see chapter 1). For
instance, the null subject of a TP-defective gerund requires a local
c−commanding antecedent (38a) and it does not allow for split antecedents
(38b). Furthermore, the interpretation of the ellipsis material in an example like
(38c) only allows for a sloppy reading under ellipsis.
CLAUSAL VERSUS TP-DEFECTIVE GERUNDS 83
(38) a. * Pauli thinks that Mary tried PROi shaving himself.
b. * Billi knew that Maryj hated PROi + j hurting themselves/each
other. 4
c. * Johni tried PROi leaving early and Bill did too (= Bill leaving
early).
In order to account for the facts above I adopt a movement analysis of
control. The subject of the matrix clause in (39) is first merged in the external
θ-role position of the TP-defective gerund, but it cannot be Case marked
within the embedded clause. (39) illustrates the strong hypothesis, in which the
TP-defective gerund does not project a TP at all, so it has no position where
the embedded subject could be Case marked. Under the weak hypothesis
discussed before (40), TP-defective gerunds project a [Spec, TP] where Case
of the external argument cannot be valued. Under this hypothesis, and given
the adoption of the approach to Case valuation in Chomsky (2000, 2001), the
embedded gerund T head does not have a full set of φ-features that can value
the Case of the embedded subject.5
(39) [CP [TP Mary [vP Mary [VP tried [vP Mary [VP calling [DP her friends]]…
(40) [CP [TP Mary [vP Mary [VP tried [TP Mary [vP Mary [VP calling [DP her
friends]]…
Given the possibility of multiple θ-marking of an individual DP, as pro-
posed by Bošković 1994, Lasnik 1995, among others, the embedded DP-
4
As in the split antecedent test with clausal gerunds in chapter 1, here the antecedents appear
in different clauses. Since the gerund itself becomes the object of the clause, there is only one
argument position in the clause that can be taken by another argument. Given this, the
appropriate test with split antecedents and gerunds requires the two antecedents to appear in
different clauses. Notice that TP-defective gerunds also do not occur as object control
complements. In this respect, they behave differently from gerunds as perception verb
complements, which are cases I analyze as object control; see section 6). Other gerund
structures that would be closely related to object control fall in fact in the class of gerunds that
are complements to prepositions:
(i) Mary tricked Bill into believing that the danger was over.
5
Notice that TP-defective gerunds raise additional problems for the approach to default Case
(Schütze 1997, 2001) discussed in chapter 1, section 5. If default Case were an available option
in the Spec, TP of clausal gerunds, it would be mysterious why the same option could not be
available for TP-defective gerunds. This is especially the case under the weak hypothesis I
consider in the text, by which both CGs and TP-defective gerunds project a TP.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
84
subject (Mary) can move to the matrix clause in order to check its Case.6
It
moves through the matrix external θ-role position where it is assigned a second
θ-role and lands in the matrix [Spec, TP] where it finally checks its Case and
freezes in place. The fact that the different argument positions are occupied by
copies of the same DP explains why the embedded subject position can only
have an obligatory control interpretation. Although I gloss over some details in
this chapter, this approach relates Case marking to φ-feature agreement
(Chomsky 2000, 2001), and not to Tense, contrary to what is assumed in the
null Case theory.
This approach also explains why TP-defective gerunds do not license an
embedded overt subject (41). Since the embedded clause does not have a Case
position for the embedded external argument, the derivation crashes because
John didn’t have its Case checked.
(41) * I tried [John leaving early].
Notice that in this respect the clausal gerunds (CGs) analyzed in chapter 1
behave differently from TP-defective gerunds in that they allow either an overt
subject or a null subject (42). In chapter 1 I proposed a movement analysis for
this optionality. According to this analysis, the distinction between CGs and
TP-defective gerunds relies crucially on the properties of the head of the
clause, which I argued to be T in the case of CGs.
(42) a. Mary favored PRO/Bill taking care of her land.
b. Susan worried about PRO/John being late for dinner.
Turning back to TP-defective gerunds, it is relevant to discuss a set of cases
((43a)-(46a)) that neither consistently contrast nor pattern with the relevant CG
examples analyzed in chapter 1 and repeated below (43b)-(46b).
(43) a. * John swimming was tried.
b. John swimming was preferred.
(44) a. * I tried John swimming. (36b).
b. I prefer John swimming.
6
Bošković and Takahashi 1998 also argue in favor of the possibility of movement into
θ−positions.
CLAUSAL VERSUS TP-DEFECTIVE GERUNDS 85
(45) a. * John was tried John swimming.
b. * John was preferred John swimming.
(46) a. John tried John swimming. (36a)
b. John preferred John swimming.
At the beginning of this section I proposed an analysis of TP-defective
gerunds that explored the strong hypothesis that TP-defective gerunds do not
project a TP, and accounted for the impossibility of an overt subject in TP-
defective examples such as (44a) and (46a) (the corresponding CG examples
were analyzed in detail in chapter 1). However, the pairs in (45) and (46)
indicate that at least in some respects TP-defective gerunds pattern with CGs.
One possible way to capture that similarity is to reconsider the weak hypothe-
sis about the status of TP-defective gerunds, showing that they are structurally
more similar to CGs than it may appear at first. Consider the hypothesis that
both TP-defective gerunds and CGs have a Case feature that needs to be
checked (extending to TP-defective gerunds the hypothesis that was developed
for CGs in chapter 1). That would explain why not only CGs but also
TP-defective gerunds cannot occur as complements of passive verbs in cases
such as (45).
However, the alternative analyses of TP-defective gerunds considered in
(39) and (40) need to be further refined in order to be able rule out the
ungrammatical TP-defective gerund in (43a) (and to explain why the TP-
defective gerunds in (43a) and (44a) behave differently from the CGs in (43b)
and (44b), respectively). There are two alternative ways of doing this. The first
one, under the strong hypothesis, is that although the head of the TP-defective
gerund (vP in the representation in (39)) does have a Case feature that needs to
be checked, it does not project a TP,7
preventing the embedded subject DP in
(43a) and (44a) from having its Case checked inside the embedded TP-
defective gerund, contrary to what happens to the clausal gerunds in (43b) and
7
Notice that for this alternative to be possible the Case feature of the TP-defective gerund
would have to be assigned to a lexical head (other than T) that does not usually carry Case,
extending what was proposed for the T head of CGs. Under the strong hypothesis considered
here (i.e. TP-defective gerunds only project a vP) the Case feature would have to be proposed
for a v-head of the T-less TP-defective gerund. Given this problem, cases like (44a) and (45a)
make the strong hypothesis more complex and the weak hypothesis more attractive in this
respect.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
86
(44b), as I proposed in chapter 1.The second alternative is to have TP-defective
gerunds project a TP similar to clausal gerunds (the weak hypothesis), as
shown in (40). In this case, their TP would not be able to check the Case of a
subject DP. Under this option, given the Case-agreement system in Chomsky
(2000, 2001), the TP-defective T would not have the φ-features necessary to
enter into Match/Agree with a subject DP, preventing it from checking the
Case of that subject DP. Furthermore, either alternative can account for the
ungrammaticality of (45a). Given that both the TP-defective gerund and the
subject DP require Case, the derivation crashes because the matrix clause T
can check Case of only one of them (in this instance John).
In other words, TP-defective gerunds cannot be entirely collapsed with
CGs, given the contrastive pairs in (43) and (44). Interestingly, the correspond-
ing CGs in (43b) and (44b) are exactly the ones whose derivation involved
Case checking/valuation of the embedded subject in two steps: the head of the
CG had to have its own Case feature checked before it could check the Case
feature of its own embedded subject. This two-step mechanism of Case
checking/valuation has some similarity to the two-step Case checking proposal
in Watanabe 1993, and to the notion of Case transmission or Case percolation
proposed in GB (see, for instance, Ortiz de Urbina 1989). This process of Case
checking in two steps is then expected not to be available for TP-defective
gerunds, given the ungrammaticality of (43a) and (44a). In sum, like CGs,
TP-defective gerunds may have a Case feature that needs to be checked, but
they are unable to Case mark an embedded subject in the two-step way which I
proposed in detail for CGs in chapter 1. This analysis explains a contrast that is
emphasized in the course of this chapter: only CGs, but not TP-defective
gerunds, can check/value Case of an overt subject. After all, the impossibility
of Case transmission for TP-defective gerunds should be related to the
deficiency of their TP properties, as shown earlier by their impossibility of
carrying independent temporal specification or perfective morphology,
contrary to CGs.8
Given that T is missing or defective in TP-defective gerunds,
Case checking/valuation of an overt subject in the embedded TP-defective
gerund cannot apply.
8
I further elaborate on the relationship between tense and agreement defectiveness and Case
checking/valuation in chapter 3, where I review several related proposals made for other
languages (Terzi (1997), Mensching (2000), Landau (2004), and Kapetangianni & Seely
(2003).
CLAUSAL VERSUS TP-DEFECTIVE GERUNDS 87
5 Properties of gerunds as complements of perception verbs
In this section I turn to the behavior of gerund complements of perception
verbs (henceforth PVC). Some properties of gerunds as PVCs indicate that
they are structurally different from CGs (see also Akmajian 1977). I argue that
these complements are even more structurally defective than CGs (especially
under the weak hypothesis that TP-defective gerunds project a TP, as consid-
ered in earlier sections) and should be analyzed as bare vPs. This is supported
by the properties below. I leave as an open question whether PVC gerunds
project simply as vPs or display an aspectual projection above vP. Notice that
many of these properties are shared by bare infinitives, which supports the idea
that both types of constructions have closely related structures:
i. Like CGs, PVCs never contain any overt complementizer (that, for-
to).
ii. PVCs do not accept modals nor perfective have–en (47a) although
they can occur in the passivized form (47b). CGs, on the other hand,
accept both perfective morphology (47c) and passives.
(47) a. * I heard Francis having talked to Silvia.
b. Ana saw Silvia being kissed by Paul.
c. Mark regrets Susan having moved to Chicago.
iii. PVCs allow their subject to raise to the subject of matrix passive
verbs (48b), differently from CGs (49b), which indicates that PVCs
do not need to occur in a Case-marked position.
(48) a. Mary saw Paul leaving the house.
b. Paul was seen leaving the house.
(49) a. Mary favored Paul taking care of the house.
b. * John was favored taking care of the house.
iv. PVCs do not allow for null subjects as CGs do:
(50) a. * I heard talking on the phone. (=I heard myself talking on the
phone).
b. I like talking on the phone.
v. PVCs do not allow a pure expletive as their subject, contrary to CGs,
which indicates that they do not have an EPP requirement:
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
88
(51) a. * Bill saw there being many people at the party.
b. He counts on there being many people in the harbor.
The facts above indicate on one hand that gerund PVCs are structurally
more defective than CGs, and on the other that they do not carry any of the
special properties associated with CGs and discussed before. The fact that PVC
gerunds do not display such special properties is accounted for if they do not
project up to TP. This further supports the derivational account I proposed for
CGs in chapter 1, which relies on the special status of the CG clausal head
(T0
).
6 TP-defective Gerunds vs. gerunds as complements of perception verbs
Consider now how TP-defective gerunds relate to complements of percep-
tion verbs. PVCs lack tense specification the same way as TP-defective
gerunds do (52).
(52) a. * This morning Francis will see Bill leaving tonight.
b. * This morning Francis will try leaving tonight.
As I have shown in section 1, TP-defective gerunds also block perfective
morphology and there expletives (53), exactly like PVCs.
(53) a. * I tried having talked to Mary.
b. * Tim tried there being many men in the room.
This similar behavior of TP-defective gerunds and PVC gerunds supports
the view that these two types of gerunds share some TP-defective properties.
However, two other facts also show that they are structurally different. First,
PVCs license non-expletive overt subjects under what appears to be ECM
(54a). This ECM behavior is confirmed by the fact that the embedded subject
DP may raise to the subject position of a matrix passive verb (54b). Neither
strategy is available for TP-defective gerunds (55), a fact for which I proposed
an explanation in section 4.
(54) a. Mary saw Paul leaving the house.
b. Paul was seen leaving the house.
(55) a. * Mary tried Paul leaving the house.
b. * Paul was tried leaving the house.
CLAUSAL VERSUS TP-DEFECTIVE GERUNDS 89
In addition, the behavior of PVC gerunds raises important questions for the
analysis of control. First, one may raise the question whether PVC gerunds
should in fact be treated as cases of object control, instead of ECM comple-
ments. As possible evidence for this, voice transparency does not seem to hold
between the PVC examples in (56), in that one may see only the doctor in
(56a), but not Paul. The opposite holds of (56b). If so, these cases are similar to
object control cases as in (57), in which voice transparency is absent (that is,
the doctor is the patient/theme of forced in (57a), but not in (57b).
(56) a. I heard/saw the doctor examining Paul.
b. I heard/saw Paul being examined by the doctor.
(57) a. I forced the doctor to examine Paul.
b. I forced Paul to be examined by the doctor.
Under a movement analysis of control, if it is the case that PVC gerunds are
in fact instances of object control, they would still be instances in which the
embedded gerund cannot Case mark its DP subject, which then needs to raise
to the matrix clause in order to be Case marked. However, from the perspective
of the null Case analysis of control, problems would arise if PVC gerunds were
treated as object control. If it is indeed the case that they do not project a TP, as
I argue above, then they have no case position where PRO could be assigned
null Case, under Martin’s (1996, 2001) approach. In addition, independently of
their structural analysis, PVC gerunds display a [−tense] interpretation, in that
they cannot represent an event that is temporally independent from the
perception event in the matrix clause (52). This is even more puzzling under
the tense/event binding approach to control, considering that PVC gerunds are
in most cases [+eventive], and indicate individuated events, despite the fact
that they are systematically [−tense]. Notice that they allow an eventive
interpretation without the need of any temporal operators, as in (58). In both
respects, PVC gerunds are similar to TP-defective gerunds, with the difference
that they would instantiate object control.
(58) Frank saw Sue breaking the vase.
As I showed in chapter 1, CGs also license overt subjects, not through ECM
but through a process of Case checking in two steps.. Since neither ECM nor
this two-step Case checking is available for TP-defective gerunds, they cannot
license overt subjects. The special status of TP-defective gerunds in this
respect is related to the fact that although they share certain properties either
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
90
with CGs or with PVC gerunds, they are neither as structurally defective as
PVC gerunds (which I analyze as bare vPs) nor as complex as CGs.
7 Conclusion
This chapter has focused on gerunds that appear to be more structurally
defective than the clausal gerunds analyzed in chapter 1: complements of
perception verbs and a class of TP-defective gerunds that appear to share
properties either with the clausal gerunds or with complements of perception
verbs. Most of the similarities and contrasts discussed here hinge on the level
of structural complexity each of these gerunds displays.
The facts I analyzed here also allow for an evaluation of recent theories of
control. The absence of a TP projection in certain gerunds challenges null Case
theories of Control, in which null Case is checked in [Spec, TP]. Furthermore,
the lack of a tense specification in some gerunds presents specific problems for
versions of a null Case theory of control that assume [+Tense] checks null
Case. I have also presented evidence that gerunds do not display a uniform
behavior with respect to the possibility of licensing individuated events,
contrary to what would be expected in a tense/event-binding approach to
control. An analysis of control as the result of A-movement captures the facts
above by allowing the θ-marked argument of TP-defective gerunds to be
generated in the embedded clause and move to the matrix clause to check its
Case.
CHAPTER 3
AGREEMENT, CASE, CONTROL AND
MOVEMENT IN INFINITIVES
1 Introduction
In this chapter I analyze the properties of Portuguese infinitives taking into
account the same empirical perspective considered for the English clausal
gerunds in chapter 1: the licensing of null and overt subjects. Portuguese
infinitives are especially relevant in the context of this book because they
behave in ways similar to English clausal gerunds, but unlike the latter and
unlike non-finite constructions in many languages, they may display overt
morphological marking for person and number agreement.
Section 2 provides evidence that non-inflected infinitives display interpre-
tive properties of obligatory control (OC) and inflected infinitives show
non-obligatory control (NOC) properties. In section 3 I argue in favor of an A-
movement analysis of different kinds of OC structures in Portuguese: control
by the matrix subject, control by the object and adjunct control. One important
advantage of this analysis is that it accounts straightforwardly for the morpho-
logical split in the inflectional morphology of infinitives and its syntactic effect
in different dialects of Portuguese, offering a principled explanation for the
control interpretive contrasts discussed in section 2. In section 4 I address the
case of non-overt subjects of inflected infinitives, arguing that what licenses
these (NOC) subjects are the φ-features (agreement features) that map into the
inflectional morphology of the inflected infinitives. Section 5 provides
independent evidence from binding to support the movement approach
defended here. In section 6 I briefly address cases of arbitrary control PRO,
distinguishing them from the OC PRO cases analyzed here as the result of
A-movement. Section 7 addresses the special case of believe-type verbs in
Brazilian Portuguese, and related cases of propositional verb complements in
English, which raise problems for the null Case approach to control. In section
8 I review briefly several alternative approaches to control and to infinitives in
other Romance languages and in Greek.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
92
In the following sections I consider primarily data from three dialects of
Portuguese: European Portuguese (EP), Standard Brazilian Portuguese
(StdBP, which is represented by the language used in the media) and Collo-
quial Brazilian Portuguese (ColBP).1, 2
2 Control in dialects with inflected infinitives
Infinitives in Portuguese come in two varieties: non-inflected or inflected
for person/number. Standard Brazilian Portuguese in general displays the
person/number paradigm for inflected infinitives shown in (1), where the plural
forms display overt inflectional morphology for person/number:
(1) StdBP
SG 1 (eu) fala-r ‘(I) speak-INF-ø’3
2 (você) fala-r ‘(you) speak-INF-ø’
3 (ele/ela) fala-r ‘(he/she) speak-INF-ø’
PL 1 (nós) fala-r-mos ‘(we) speak-INF-1PL’
2 (vocês) fala-r-em ‘(you-PL) speak-INF-3PL’
3 (eles/elas) fala-r-em ‘(they) speak-INF-3PL’
EP differs from the paradigm in (1) only by the fact that it has specific
inflected forms for 2nd
person singular and 2nd
person plural, given the possible
use of different pronouns with those forms (see details in chapter 4). Since
only 1st
and 3rd
person plural verb forms display the same overt morphology
for person/number in both EP and StdBP, I will restrict my examples of
inflected infinitives to those forms.
How do Portuguese infinitives behave with respect to control? I show below
that only non-inflected infinitives consistently show properties of obligatory
control (OC). This can be seen when one applies to them the diagnostics for
1
Parts of this chapter appeared in an earlier version in Pires 2001b, and have now been
modified and extended. I thank John Benjamins for allowing me to include that material here.
2
When I use BP alone I refer to both dialects of Brazilian Portuguese discussed here. Quicoli
(1996) refers to an “official dialect” of Brazilian Portuguese, and claims that many Brazilians
are native speakers of this dialect, whereas many others are not, although they end up learning
it at school, with varying degrees of success. To my knowledge, there are no systematic studies
of pre-school age children to establish to what degree Standard Brazilian Portuguese is
acquired or learned. At any rate, it is possible to find speakers that have intuitions about its
properties which do not always match the properties described in school grammars, and I rely
on those judgments throughout this book.
3
INF stands for the infinitive morpheme, followed in the plural forms by the overt inflection
for person + number (1PL/3PL).
AGREEMENT, CASE, CONTROL AND MOVEMENT IN INFINITIVES 93
obligatory control I applied to English clausal gerunds in chapter 1 (diagnostics
based on Lebeaux 1985 and used for control in Hornstein 1999) as follows.
2.1 Need for a local c-commanding antecedent
First, consider the need for a local c-commanding antecedent in examples
(2a) and (3a). PRO in the embedded infinitive clauses in (2a) from EP and (3a)
from StdBP must have a local antecedent in the matrix clause. That antecedent
must also c-command PRO. So, both in (2a) and (3a) the entire bracketed DP
in the matrix clause is the only possible antecedent for PRO in the embedded
clause.
(2) a. [Os pais do Pauloj]k lamentam PRO*j/ k chegar
tarde.(EP)
[The parents of-the Pauloj]k regret PRO*j/ k arrive- INF late.
‘[Pauloj’s parents]k regret PRO*j/ k to arrive late.’
b. [Os nossosj pais ] lamentam proj chegarmos tarde.
[The ourj parents] regret proj arrive-INF-1PL late.
‘Our parents regret our arriving late.’
(3) a. [Nossosj amigos]k detestam PRO*j/ k perder as coisas deles.
(StdBP)
[Ourj friends]k hate PRO*j/ k lose- INF the things of they.
‘Our friends hate losing their belongings.’
b. [Nossosj amigos] detestam proj perdermos as coisas deles.
[Ourj friends] hate proj lose- INF -1PL the things of-they.
‘Our friends hate when we lose their belongings.’
However, a local c-commanding antecedent is not needed for the subject of
the embedded infinitives in (2b) and (3b), which are inflected. With inflected
infinitives, the null subject pro can also be disjoint in reference from any DP in
the sentence, especially with 1st
person plural inflection. This and the other
contrasts below show that inflected infinitives display NOC properties,
whereas OC properties are restricted to non-inflected infinitives.
2.2 Sloppy reading under ellipsis
The ellipsis material in the non-inflected infinitive cases in (4a) and (5a)
(indicated between parentheses) only allows a sloppy reading. For instance,
when the ellipsis material (regrets to have lost) is interpreted in (4a) it can only
mean that Silvia herself regrets her own losing. This contrasts directly with
examples (4b) and (5b). Take (4b), where the second conjunct must be
interpreted as Silvia regrets our losing, corresponding to a strict interpretation
of the ellipsis site.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
94
(4) a. O Pauloj lamenta PROj/ *k ter perdido e a Silvia
também.(= Silvia lamenta ter perdido) (EP)
The Pauloj regrets PROj/ *k have-INF lost and the Silvia
too. (= Silvia regrets to have lost)
‘Pauloj regrets PROj/ *k to have- INF lost and Silvia does too.
(= Silvia regrets to have lost) ’
b. O Pauloj lamenta prok termos perdido e a Silvia
também. (= lamenta nós termos perdido) (EP)
The Pauloj regrets prok have-INF-1PL lost and the Silvia
too (=Silvia regrets our losing)
‘Paulo regrets our losing and Silvia does too. (=Silvia regrets our
losing).’
(5) a. O Pedroj aceita PROj/ *k votar todas as propostas hoje
e a Ana também. (=Ana aceita votar todas as propostas hoje)
(StdBP).
The Pedroj accepts PROj/ *k vote-INF all the proposals today
and the Ana too. (=Ana accepts to vote all the proposals today)
‘Pedro accepts to vote all the proposals today and Ana does too.
(=Ana accepts to vote all the proposals today).’
b. O Pedroj aceita prok votarmos todas as propostas hoje
e a Ana também. (=Ana aceita que nós votemos todas as
propostas hoje). (StdBP)
The Pedroj accepts prok vote-INF-1PL all the proposals today
and the Ana too. (=Ana accepts that we vote all the proposals
today)
‘Pedro accepts that we vote all the proposals today and Ana does
too. (=Ana accepts that we vote all the proposals today).’
Finally, the next section presents a third test distinguishing the OC proper-
ties of non-inflected infinitives from the NOC properties.
2.3 Impossibility of split antecedents
Notice how the two types of infinitive behave with respect to the possibility
of split antecedents for the embedded clause null subject. PRO in the non-
inflected infinitive in (6a) rejects an interpretation in which both I and a Maria
form a set that behaves as the antecedent for PRO. (6b) is clearly distinct in
that respect. Here pro is co-referential with a set of elements that can include
both I and a Maria.
AGREEMENT, CASE, CONTROL AND MOVEMENT IN INFINITIVES 95
(6) a. Euj convenci a Mariak PROk/*j+k a viajar com o
Paulo. (EP & STBP/some informants)
Ij convinced the Mariak PROk/*j+k to travel-INF with the
Paulo.
‘Ij convinced Mariak PRO k/*j+k to travel with Paulo.’
b. Euj convenci a Mariak proj+k a viajarmos com o
Paulo.
Ij convinced the Mariak proj+k to travel-INF-1PL with the
Paulo.
‘Ij convinced Mariak that wej+k (should) travel with Paulo.’
None of the properties discussed above holds for the subject of an embed-
ded inflected infinitive. However, they must apply to non-inflected infinitives.
Hornstein (1999, 2003) used these different properties as arguments for an
analysis of control in English as the result of DP movement. Take for instance
the impossibility of split antecedents. If PRO is the result of DP movement
from the embedded clause to an appropriate position in the matrix clause, split
antecedents are not possible, because a DP cannot move to two different
positions at the same time. In the next section, I extend to Portuguese an
analysis of obligatory control as the result of A-movement.
3 Null subjects of uninflected infinitives as the result of DP-movement
In the analysis below I follow one aspect of the proposals by Bošković
(1994), Lasnik (1995), Bošković and Takahashi (1998) and Hornstein (1999),
and assume that multiple θ-roles can be discharged on DPs, as the result of
movement, contra Chomsky (1995a, 2000, 2001). If one denies the existence
of a D-structure level (Chomsky 1993, 1995a), there seems to be no strong
argument against the possibility of having multiple thematic roles assigned to
the same DP in the course of the derivation. As in chapter 1, I put aside here
the question whether θ-roles should be treated as features, even though the
latter is consistent with the idea that movement is motivated by feature
checking/valuation. What is crucial is that either θ-role checking or assignment
is sufficient to motivate movement.4
4
This is clearly so under a conception of movement that requires Greed, if the probe (the
θ-assigning head) is responsible for triggering the movement of the DP that will be assigned a
θ-role. One important point is that the notion of activation that applies in the probe-goal system
of Chomsky 2000, 2001 can be only partially extended to multiple θ-assignment, given that
after a DP is assigned a first θ-role, it does not need to receive further θ-roles to satisfy its
thematic properties.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
96
I follow the approach to feature checking proposed in Chomsky (2000,
2001).5
A T carries a set of [−interpretable] φ-features that needs to be checked
by an agreeing DP that the T c-commands. Only a T that carries a complete set
of φ-features (i.e. which is φ-complete) can check the Case of a DP. Finally,
any T carries a ([−interpretable]) EPP feature that can be checked by the
categorial feature of a DP. Therefore, a DP is allowed to check the EPP and the
φ-features (that is, at least person and number) of more than one T. That is
consistent with Chomsky’s (2001) view that an embedded (non-inflected)
infinitive has a defective head T, that is, it doesn’t have a complete φ-set,
although it carries a [−interpretable] EPP-feature.6
Therefore, this defective T
is unable to determine Case-agreement. Since it has an EPP feature, a DP can
merge in its Spec, but it cannot delete the [−interpretable] Case feature of the
DP.
3.1 Subject control
Consider a case such as (7) where only a non-inflected infinitive is licensed
in Portuguese:
(7) [TP2Nósj [VP2 nós conseguimos [TP1 nósj/*k [VP1 nós sair ]]]].7
[TP2Wej [VP2 we managed [TP1 wej/*k [VP1 we leave]]]].
‘We managed to leave.’
The subject of the matrix clause in (7) is first merged in the embedded
clause, where it is assigned a θ-role in VP1 and the EPP-feature in the Spec of
TP1, but cannot have its Case checked/valued, because [Spec, TP] of a
non-inflected infinitive clause is not a Case-checking position. Therefore, the
subject nós ‘we’ must raise to the matrix clause where it is assigned a θ-role in
VP2, the EPP-feature of T2 and its own Case feature, after which it becomes
inactive for further feature checking/valuation involving Case and agreement.
This also prevents it from raising to a higher position after it lands in [Spec,
5
The analysis adopted in this chapter is in principle compatible with the valuation approach
adopted in chapters 1 and 2. However, in what follows I make reference primarily to a
checking approach.
6
However, see chapter 1 for references to alternative proposal that attempt to eliminate appeal
to the EPP.
7
I represent Portuguese infinitives as TPs to simplify the notation. However, they may in fact
be CPs, although that is not crucial here. I do not address here the optional fronting of the verb
and facts about wh-movement discussed in Raposo (1987), who argues for a distinction
between TP and CP for inflected infinitives in EP. Galves (1991) proposes that they are always
CPs.
AGREEMENT, CASE, CONTROL AND MOVEMENT IN INFINITIVES 97
TP2]. Once all the features have been checked the lower copies are deleted and
the derivation converges.8
3.2 Object control
In this section I derive a case of object control assuming the movement
analysis used above. In example (8) a Maria is assigned a θ-role in the
embedded VP and then moves to [Spec, TP] of the embedded clause, where it
checks an EPP feature. According to Hornstein (1999), this kind of movement
violates the principle Procrastinate (according to which movement should
apply as late as possible), since I, which is still in the numeration, could have
been inserted in [Spec, TP] of the embedded clause. A Maria then moves to the
VP of the matrix clause, which is another violation of Procrastinate, given that
I is still in the numeration. Both violations are possible because otherwise the
derivation would not converge.
(8) [TP2 Eu convenci a Maria [TP1 a Maria a viajar hoje]].
[TP2 I convinced the Maria [TP1 the Maria to travel-INF today]].
‘I convinced Maria to travel today.’
Notice that invoking violations of Procrastinate above may not be neces-
sary, if other restrictions come into play.9
The first violation above holds only
if one assumes that an argument in the numeration can first merge in a
non-thematic position. However, even if ‘first merge’ of arguments is re-
stricted to thematic positions, eliminating the first violation of Procrastinate,
eu ‘I’ can still merge into the object position of convenci ‘convince’, a θ-
position, and block object control in the case of the second violation. Let us
instead assume that the restriction on ‘first merge’ does not hold (which would
make both illicit merges of eu ‘I’ possible), in order to consider a couple of
consequences. If it is correct that Merge is more economical that Move, as
stated in the Merge over Move principle (see Chomsky 2000:104), the
violations described as necessary above still hold, now as the result from
Merge over Move, and even under the elimination of Procrastinate. How to
avoid this problem? In one alternative, if one adopts Hornstein (1999), a Maria
is inserted in the derivation with an accusative Case feature, and eu ‘I’ with a
nominative Case feature. This prevents I from merging into the accusative
Case position of the matrix clause, forcing a Maria to move to that position.
Nevertheless, if we assume that nominative and accusative Case features are
8
The derivations represented here assume the existence of copies, but this point is not crucial
for the current analysis (see chapter 1, fn. 71 for relevant references).
9
The existence of Procrastinate as an independent principle has been challenged in Chomsky
2001.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
98
specified by φ-feature agreement in the course of the derivation (Chomsky
2000, 2001), another explanation is necessary for the violation of Merge over
Move in (8). However, the same alternative explanation based on a Case
distinction can not be extended to account for the first violation of Procrasti-
nate or Merge over Move.
Given the above, I appeal instead to the Minimal Link Condition to account
for both violations. If eu ‘I’ is merged in [Spec, TP] of the embedded clause
(satisfying Merge over Move), instead of moving a Maria from the embedded
VP, eu ‘I’ would block the movement of a Maria to the matrix clause, given
that I c-commands a Maria and both are c-commanded by the matrix V and T,
making eu ‘I’ closer than a Maria to either one of the probes. Therefore, the
Case of a Maria wouldn’t be checked and the derivation would crash. This
indicates that although principles such as Procrastinate and Merge over Move
play a role in issues involving economy, they may be overruled if necessary for
convergence.
3.3 Adjunct control
I present in this section a derivation for a case of adjunct control. In order to
adopt a movement analysis of control into adjuncts (see also Hornstein 1999,
2001), it is necessary to start with two different assumptions: movement should
be allowed from inside the adjunct to the control position in the matrix clause.
However, since movement from adjuncts is not possible after the adjunct has
been merged in the main clause (which would yield an island violation), it is
necessary to adopt an analysis by which movement of the control DP from
inside the adjunct takes place before the adjunct is merged with the matrix
clause (that is, at the point movement from inside the adjunct applies, it
correspond to movement to a non c-commanding position).
Let us consider the application of this analysis. In a sentence such as (9)
below, the adjunct PP antes de o Pedro sair ‘before Pedro leaving’ is built first
in the derivation. At the point at which TP1 is built, the main clause starts out
as a separate derivation, in a parallel workspace. A Maria merges with called
in VP2. O Pedro, which is in the parallel derivation of the non-finite clause,
can then move into the matrix external θ-role position (by sidewards move-
ment, see Nunes 1995, 2004, or interarboreal movement, in the terms of
Bobaljik & Brown 1997). That is, movement applies between two independent
structures that are not yet part of the same syntactic object. Given that,
movement is to a position that does not c-command the departure site of
movement at the point movement applies. That is possible only because at that
point in the derivation the two initial separate syntactic objects (the adjunct
clause and the matrix clause) have not yet merged. After moving into the
matrix clause, o Pedro is assigned the external θ-role of called and moves to
[Spec, TP2] where it checks the EPP feature and its own Case feature:
AGREEMENT, CASE, CONTROL AND MOVEMENT IN INFINITIVES 99
(9) [TP2 O Pedro [VP2 chamou a Maria [PP antes de [TP1 o Pedro
[VP1 o Pedro sair]]]]].
[TP2 the Pedro [VP2 called the Maria [PP before of [TP1 the Pedro
[VP1 the Pedro leave-INF]]]]].
‘Pedro called Maria before leaving.’
Three points need to be explained with respect to the derivation above.
First, if a Maria had been inserted in [Spec, TP] of the embedded clause
instead of moving o Pedro to that position, o Pedro would have never checked
its Case feature, by virtue of the Minimal Link Condition (MLC), similar to
what I considered in the previous section. Second, if o Pedro moved to the
matrix object position instead of merging a Maria, there would be a violation
of Merge over Move, which would hold given that the alternative derivation
without this violation is convergent, as shown above. However, moving o
Pedro by sidewards/interarboreal movement to the external θ-role position of
the matrix over a Maria does not involve a violation of Merge over Move,
since both DPs are already in the derivation. Also, the MLC does not play any
role in this case. Neither o Pedro nor a Maria c-command each other before
movement of Pedro to matrix spec, vP applies. Since the MLC and locality can
only be measured in terms of c-command, both DPs are equidistant from the
target. However, if a Maria moved to the external θ-role position, o Pedro
would never be able to check its Case, yielding a non-convergent derivation.
This provides an explanation for why the derivation I propose for (9) is the
only possible alternative.
4 Non-overt subjects of inflected infinitives
Inflected infinitives in Portuguese, contrary to uninflected ones, carry a
complete φ-set. That way, their T can delete the nominative Case feature of a
DP, forcing it to freeze in the embedded clause subject position. Consider
example (10):
(10) [TP2 A Mariaj [VP2 a Maria chegou [PP antes de [TP1 prok [VP1 prok
sairmos]]]]].
[TP2 the Mariaj [VP2 the Maria arrived [PP before of [TP1 prok [VP1 prok
leave-INF-1PL]]]]].
‘Maria arrived before we left.’
I keep the standard analysis for the null subject of inflected infinitives in
Portuguese, by arguing that it is a pro (see Raposo 1987 and references
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
100
therein). Under this view, in combination with the movement analysis of PRO
subjects of non-inflected infinitives I presented in section 3, the morphological
distinction between inflected and non-inflected infinitives correlates directly
with the contrast between a movement analysis of the control cases, possible
only with the non-inflected infinitives, and a non-movement analysis of
inflected infinitive cases such as (10).10
T of an inflected infinitive clause
carries a full set of φ-features (as indicated by the overt person/number
morphology), which can check the Case feature of a pro or overt DP occurring
in the subject position of the infinitival clause, blocking any further movement
(cf. Chomsky 2000, 2001). In (10) pro merges in VP1 where it is assigned one
θ-role. It then moves to [Spec, TP1], where it checks the EPP-feature in [Spec,
TP]. T, which is φ-complete in this case, also deletes the Case feature of pro.
That way, pro is frozen in the embedded clause, and the derivation converges.
Now consider (11), which is ungrammatical in EP and StdBP. Since T of a
non-inflected infinitive cannot check the Case feature of an overt subject or
pro, the derivation crashes:
(11) * [TP2 Mariaj [VP2 chegou [PP antes de [TP1nós/prok [VP sair ]]]]].
[TP2Mariaj [VP2 arrived [PP before of [TP1 we/ prok [VP leave-INF ]]]]].
‘* Maria arrived before we/he/they to leave.’
Given that T of a non-inflected infinitive does not have a complete set of
φ-features, Case cannot be checked in the embedded [Spec, TP1], forcing the
embedded subject DP to move to the matrix clause to satisfy its Case require-
ment. However, if the embedded DP subject (nós ‘we’ or pro) moved to the
matrix clause,11
the DP a Maria would remain in the numeration, that is, it
wouldn’t enter the derivation although it had already been selected from the
lexicon, and the derivation would be cancelled, yielding ungrammaticality. If,
on the other hand, nós ‘we’ (or pro) did not raise to the matrix clause (allowing
a Maria to merge in the matrix clause as shown in (11)), nós ‘we’/pro would
never have its Case feature checked/valued, and the derivation would crash,
also yielding ungrammaticality.
10
San Martin (1999, 2004) analyzes cases of control in Basque that display a contrast similar
to the one in Portuguese, involving a split in terms of Case marking instead of inflection.
11
This is what happens in (9), which corresponds to a different numeration, in which no
additional DP exists beyond the DP subject of the embedded clause, allowing the numeration
to be exhausted, as required for the derivation to be convergent.
AGREEMENT, CASE, CONTROL AND MOVEMENT IN INFINITIVES 101
5 Evidence from binding
In this section, similar to what I proposed for English clausal gerunds in
chapter 1, I offer additional empirical support that the distinction between
obligatory control in non-inflected infinitives and non-obligatory control in
inflected infinitives correlates with distinctions in the binding properties of the
two classes of infinitives. In general, I show that in all the cases of OC
infinitives (non-inflected ones) the matrix clause behaves as the binding
domain for the embedded infinitive, providing additional empirical support for
an analysis of control as the result of movement. Consider example (12). The
non-inflected infinitive constructions where a null subject with OC properties
(analyzed as the result of movement above) is required are also cases where the
matrix clause is the appropriate domain for binding an anaphor that occurs in
the embedded infinitive clause:
(12) Elesj aceitaram sej barbear(*em) sem espelho. (BP)
Theyj accepted selfj shave-INF-(*3PL) without mirror.
‘Theyj managed to shave (themselvesj) without a mirror.’
Inflected infinitive clauses as in (13), on the other hand, behave as inde-
pendent domains for anaphor binding, forcing an anaphor to be bound by pro
or a lexical DP in the subject position of the embedded clause:
(13) O diretorj começou a cerimônia antes de nós/prok nosk
apresentarmos. (StdBP).
The directorj started the celebration before of we/prok ourselvesk
introduce-INF-1PL.
‘The directorj started the celebration before we introduced ourselves.’
These facts support the argument that the null subjects with OC properties
are the result of movement, if we assume that in the cases where the embedded
subject raises to the matrix clause (12) the matrix clause is also the binding
domain for an embedded anaphor.12
Cases of pronoun binding in Portuguese can also be used as evidence for a
movement analysis of OC PRO. For some informants at least, in BP an overt
pronoun in an infinitive clause can be co-referential with an antecedent in the
12
Notice that in Minimalism movement is not allowed to yield traces as in GB, and even if one
adopts a copy theory approach to movement (Chomsky 1995a), the copy of a moved item is
not supposed to be treated as an independent lexical item from the moved item. This supports
an analysis in which the lower copy of a moved element is not supposed to be treated
independently for purposes of Binding Theory. See also chapter 1, section 6.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
102
matrix clause, as shown in examples (14) and (15). If these examples corre-
spond to standard BP, then the embedded infinitive is inflected (even if the
inflection does not appear overtly), in order to license the overt subject:13
(14) A Reginaj vai esperar ela(?)j, k vender o carro. (BP)
The Reginaj will wait her(?)j, k sell-INF the car.
‘Reginaj will wait for her(?)j, k to sell the car.’
(15 [O Pedro e o Paulo]j saíram depois deles(?)j/ k lerem
o jornal. (BP).
[The Pedro and the Paulo]j left after of-they(?)j/ k read-INF-3PL
the paper.
‘[Pedro e Paulo]j left after they(?)j/ k read the paper.’
These cases support the view that in the case of embedded inflected infini-
tives, the matrix clause does not function as the binding domain for
anaphors/pronouns in the embedded clause, since coreference is at least
marginally acceptable. In the case of pronouns, they can have an antecedent in
the matrix clause because they have already satisfied the requirement that their
antecedent cannot be inside their binding domain, which is the embedded
clause in the inflected infinitive examples above. However, the possibility of
pronoun coreference with the matrix subject DP is not accepted by all the
speakers, as indicated by (?) in (14) and (15), and by (??) in (16), where the
restriction is even stronger. For these speakers, there is a requirement for
disjunction in reference between the embedded pronoun and the matrix
subject.14
(16) [O Pedro e o Paulo]j vão esperar eles(??)j/ k vender(em) o
carro. (ColBP/some informants)
[The Pedro and the Paulo]j will wait they(??)j/ k sell-INF-(3PL) the
car.
‘[Pedro e Paulo]j will wait for them(??)j/ k to sell the car.’
I assume that this restriction exists not because the matrix clause should
function as the binding domain for the embedded pronoun. If there is per-
son/number agreement in the embedded clause, it should actually function as
13
I consider in chapter 4 the loss of inflected infinitives in BP, which yielded the possibility of
non-inflected infinitives with an overt subject and without ECM.
14
In case this restriction only holds in BP, I suspect that it is related to the current status of
inflected infinitives in ColBP, which are disappearing in favor of non-inflected forms (see
chapter 4 for an analysis). If so, EP speakers may not have the same restriction.
AGREEMENT, CASE, CONTROL AND MOVEMENT IN INFINITIVES 103
an independent domain for binding, as already shown in example (13) for
anaphor binding. Rather, in cases like (16), other factors are at play, causing an
obviation effect: obligatory disjunction in the interpretation of the embedded
pronoun with respect to the matrix clause. The disjunction effect shown in (16)
and similar cases is very much like what happens to subjunctives in several
Romance languages.15
Kempchinsky (1986) and Terzi (1991) proposed
accounts for such effects in subjunctives in other languages, and Hornstein and
San Martin (2000) tried to account for similar facts using an economy
approach.
6 A Note on Arbitrary PRO
Non-obligatory control (NOC) properties occur not only with inflected
infinitives, but also with non-inflected infinitives that allow an arbitrary PRO
interpretation (PROarb, so called in Control Theory in GB; see Chomsky 1981
and also Martin 1996 and references therein). There is no need for an antece-
dent in PROarb constructions such as (17). Other diagnostics discussed here for
OC PRO do not hold either, as a consequence of the lack of an antecedent.
(17) É impossível PROk bater esse record. (EP and BP)
is impossible PROk beat- INF this record.
‘It is impossible to beat this record.’
This might suggest that subjects of non-inflected infinitives with PROarb
interpretation should be conflated with arbitrary plural subjects as in (18),
which also display NOC properties. Another similarity between the two cases
is that they both allow either a singular or a plural interpretation for the null
arbitrary subject.
(18) É impossível prok baterem esse record. (EP and BP)
is impossible prok beat- INF-3PL this record.
‘It is impossible to beat this record.’
15
As pointed out by J. W. Zwart (p.c. 2005) this obviation/disjunction effect is reminiscent of
an effect originally pointed out by Montalbetti (1984) – the “Overt Pronoun Constraint”,
according to which in languages where there are both overt and null pronouns, the bound
variable reading is restricted to the null pronoun. Although the distinction may also extend to
strong vs. weak overt pronouns, the contrast between strong and weak pronouns is less marked
in Portuguese than e.g. in Italian.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
104
However, there are several distinctions between (17) and (18). For instance,
whereas in (17) the speaker can be included in the reference set for the null
arbitrary subject, in (18) the speaker is excluded from that reference set.
Jaeggli (1986) investigated this and other distinctions between both types of
arbitrary subjects. What is relevant to the discussion here is that whatever
properties distinguish these arbitrary subjects from the non-arbitrary subject
pro of inflected infinitives discussed in section 4, they all share the non-
obligatory control interpretation properties discussed in section 2. This sets all
of them apart from obligatory control PRO, which has been analyzed here as
the result of DP movement.
7 Believe-type verbs in Brazilian Portuguese
7.1 Background: Propositional infinitives in English and French
In this section I focus on the properties of believe-type infinitival comple-
ments in Portuguese and how they may be a problem for the null Case theory
of control as proposed by Martin (1996, 2001) and Bošković (1997). I have
already indicated similar problems with English gerunds in chapter 2. As I
summarized there, in Martin’s (1996, 2001) theory only [+Tense, −Finite] T
can assign null Case to PRO. According to Stowell (1982), only control
infinitives, but not raising and ECM infinitivals, are specified as [+Tense]. For
Martin that explains why only control infinitivals should be able to assign null
Case to PRO. Martin follows Enç (1990) and explores a further development in
the Null Case analysis. Enç argues that eventive predicates project a temporal
argument that needs to be bound by tense or some other operator (e.g. aspec-
tual be and have and quantificational adverbs of frequency) in order to denote
an individuated event. In the absence of the appropriate operator, only state-
denoting predicates should be possible. If ECM and raising infinitival com-
plements do not have tense features, the ungrammaticality of (19) is explained,
because the event-denoting embedded predicate contains an event variable that
requires tense or some other (temporal) operator to be bound, which in
Martin’s terms is not available in these domains (Martin 1996: 59 (82)):
AGREEMENT, CASE, CONTROL AND MOVEMENT IN INFINITIVES 105
(19) a. * Everyone believed [Rebecca to win the game right then].
b. * The doctor showed [Bill to take the wrong medicine at that exact
time].
c. * The defendant seemed to the DA[ t to conspire against the
government at that exact time].16
Bošković (1997) proposes a slightly revised version of the null Case theory
developed by Martin (1996). For him the contrast between ECM complements
of believe-type verbs (20a) and control complements of try-type verbs (20b)
can best be stated in terms of s-selection.
(20) a. * John believed [PRO to be nice].
b. John tried [PRO to win].
Bošković argues that believe s-selects propositional complements, whereas
try s-selects nonpropositional ones, which he refers to as Irrealis. As support
for this distinction, he points out that truth and falsity can be predicated only of
the complement of believe, and not of try, as he shows with the contrast in
(21):
16
However, Hornstein (2003) presents similar examples of raising (i) which are grammatical
with embedded eventive predicates, suggesting at first that the contrast pointed out by Martin
is restricted only to control versus ECM verbs (but see section 8):
(i) a. Rebecca seemed to win the game right then.
b. John appeared to take the wrong medicine.
c. John is likely/certain/sure to eat a bagel.
Martin (1996:91) discusses similar facts and argues that such cases do involve control rather
than raising. However, Hornstein argues that if this were the case three different phenomena
would be barred: raising of idiom subjects, contrary to what is shown by the contrast in (ii);
expletives in the matrix subject position, which is in fact possible (iii), voice transparency in
raising constructions where the embedded predicate has an eventive predicate, which is again
contrary to fact, as shown by the fact that (iva) maintains for Mary and for the doctor the same
thematic interpretation they have in (ivb):
(ii) a. The shit appeared to hit the fan then.
b. * The shit tried to hit the fan then.
(iii) It seemed to start to rain exactly then.
(iv) a. The doctor seemed to then examine Mary.
b. Mary seemed to then be examined by the doctor.
In section 8 I discuss additional evidence showing that ECM complements in English also
violate the proposed one-to-one correlation between [+tense/+eventiveness] and null
Case/control.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
106
(21) a. John believed Peter to have played football, which was false.
b. * John tried to play football, which was false.
According to Bošković, if one assumes that the defining property of irrealis
complements to try-type verbs is that the truth of the complement is left
unspecified at the utterance time, that explains the impossibility of predicating
truth or falsity of the complement of try. He claims that the presence of
Stowell’s (1982) unrealized Tense ([+Tense] in the terms of Martin 1996) may
result from the s-selectional properties of try. Conversely, in the case of
believe-type verbs, s-selection of a proposition as a complement should require
the presence of a [−Tense] specification for T.
Bošković (1997) then proposes an account for a systematic difference
pointed out by Kayne (1981) between English believe-type and the correspond-
ing French croire-type infinitivals with respect to the licensing of PRO and
ECM subjects. In contrast to English, infinitival complements of French
believe-type verbs allow a PRO in their subject position (22) (example (22a)
from Bošković 1997:63 (29a)). Conversely, French infinitival complements
reject an overt DP in the same position, while this possibility exists in English
(23).
(22) a. Marie croît [PRO avoir convaincu son auditoire].
Marie believes have convinced her audience.
b. * Mary believes [PRO to have convinced her audience].
(23) a. * Marie croît [Jean avoir convaincu son auditoire].
Marie believes Jean have convinced his audience.
b. Mary believed [John to have convinced his audience].
As Bošković points out, if the propositional complements to believe-type
verbs in French behaved as their English counterparts, they would be specified
as [–Tense], and (22a) would be ruled out, contrary to fact. As a solution to
this problem, he argues that French propositional infinitival complements are
in fact specified as [+Tense], based on the fact that they can receive a non-
habitual interpretation even in the absence of other operators, such as an
auxiliary or an adverb of quantification. As the examples from Bošković
(1997:64) in (24) indicate, French event-denoting propositional infinitives are
grammatical on the non-habitual reading even in the absence of an auxiliary or
of adverbs of quantification, supporting the view that they are specified as
[+Tense], assuming that the tense feature is enough to bind the temporal
argument and denote an individuated event:
AGREEMENT, CASE, CONTROL AND MOVEMENT IN INFINITIVES 107
(24) a. Paul croît rêver.
Paul believes dream-INF
‘Paul believes that he is dreaming.’
b. Anna croyaît arriver en retard hier alors qu’en fait elle
était à l’heure.
Anna believed arrive-INF late yesterday although in fact she
was at the.hour.
‘Anna believed that she arrived late yesterday, although in fact she
was on time’.
This contrasts with English believe-type infinitival complements, which
cannot license individuated events in the absence of an auxiliary or other
operator, due to their [−Tense] specification in the terms of Martin and of
Bošković (25):
(25) * John believed Peter to arrive late yesterday. (Bošković 1997:64)
Although the contrast between English and French follows from the indi-
viduated event account presented by Bošković along the lines of Martin’s
proposal, it is not clear how such a contrast can be reconciled with the revision
of the account in terms of s-selection as proposed by Bošković (1997), given
that both English believe-type and French croire-type verbs should select for
propositional complements, which would wipe out the relevant contrast under
the s-selectional view proposed by Bošković and summarized above. In this
respect, the French sentences in (26), corresponding to the distinction between
propositional and irrealis complements proposed by Bošković, reproduce the
English pattern in (21), although French croire-type verbs license PRO,
whereas English believe-type ones do not, as I reviewed above.
(26) a. Jean croyaît [bien jouer au football], ce qui est faux.
Jean believed well play-INF soccer, this that is false
‘Jean believed [that he played soccer well], which was not true.’
b. * Jean essayait de [bien jouer au football], ce qui est faux.
Jean tried of well play-INF soccer, this that is false
‘Jean tried [to play soccer well], which was not true.’
Given this, we are left only with the event/tense distinction to account for
the English vs. French contrast regarding believe-type verbs. However,
complications arise when we attempt to extend the latter approach to Portu-
guese, as I show in the next section.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
108
7.2 Contrast: Propositional infinitives in Brazilian Portuguese
Turning now to Brazilian Portuguese, at first one may take it to behave
identically to French, regarding believe-type verbs.17
This is initially supported
by the fact that the class of verbs corresponding to believe/croire in Portuguese
takes PRO infinitival complements (27) but not ECM complements (28), the
same way as in French (22a)-(23a), and contrary to English (22b)-(23b):
(27) A Maria acredita [PRO ter convencido a platéia].
The Maria believes PRO have convinced the audience.
‘Mary believes that she convinced her audience.’
(28) * O Jonas acreditou [o Pedro ter jogado futebol].
The Jonas believed the Pedro have played soccer.
‘Jonas believed Pedro to have played soccer.’
However, the relevant distinction in the behavior of propositional infinitives
in Brazilian Portuguese (BP) is that they cannot denote individuated or
punctual events in the absence of an auxiliary verb (29), contrary to what one
finds in French (24), but similar to English (19a):
(29) a. * O Paulo imagina sonhar.
The Paulo imagines dream-INF
‘Paulo thinks that he is dreaming.’
b. * Eu acredito sair de casa amanhã.
I believe leave-INF of-home tomorrow.
‘I believe that I will go out tomorrow.’
c. * A Ana julgou chegar atrasada ontem, mas ela chegou na
hora.
The Ana believed arrive- INF late yesterday, but she arrived on
time
‘Ana believed that she arrived late yesterday, but she arrived on
time’.
Corresponding examples with auxiliary estar ‘be’, a modal verb or auxiliary
ter ‘have’ are perfectly fine in BP. Crucially, they allow for the eventive/non-
habitual reading impossible in the sentences in (29):
17
Bošković (1997:196n21) gives examples suggesting that European Portuguese, Spanish and
Italian behave like French in the relevant aspects.
AGREEMENT, CASE, CONTROL AND MOVEMENT IN INFINITIVES 109
(30) a. O Paulo imagina estar sonhando.
The Paulo imagines be- INF dream- INF
‘Paulo thinks that he is dreaming.’
b. Eu acredito poder sair de casa amanhã.
I believe can- INF leave- INF of-home tomorrow.
‘I believe that I can go out tomorrow.’
c. A Ana julgou ter chegado atrasada ontem, mas ela chegou
na hora.
The Ana believed have arrived late yesterday, but she arrived
on time
‘Ana believed that she arrived late yesterday, but she arrived on
time’.
Similarly, propositional infinitival complement are perfect with stative
verbs or with a habitual reading (31), in which case they do not need an
auxiliary or another operator, given that there is no event variable to be bound:
(31) a. O Paulo acredita ser mais alto que a Maria.
The Paulo believes be- INF taller than the Maria
‘Paulo believes that he is taller than Maria.’
b. A Maria julga saber de tudo.
The Maria judges know- INF of-everything
‘Maria thinks she knows about everything.’
c. O Paulo alega sonhar com sereias toda noite.
The Paulo claims dream- INF with sirens every night.
‘Paulo claims to dream of sirens every night.’18
18
Also notice that similarly to French, BP presents ECM-like instances of wh-questions with
propositional infinitives, but one also needs an operator to bind the event variable under an
individuated-event reading, as shown by the contrast in (i).
(i) a. * Quem você imagina sonhar?
Who you imagine dream-INF?
‘Who do you believe to be dreaming?’
b. Quem você imagina estar sonhando?
Who you imagine be-INF dreaming?
‘Who do you believe to be dreaming?’
I assume that Case checking of the embedded subject can proceed in the same way as proposed
by Bošković (1997:66) for the corresponding French cases, where the embedded subject
checks its Case in an A’-position while undergoing wh-movement. (ia) is then ruled out not
because of Case checking reasons, but because the embedded infinitive lacks an operator to
bind the event variable.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
110
These different facts indicate that the one-to-one correlation between null
Case/control and [+eventiveness/+tense] fails with respect to believe-type
infinitival complements in Brazilian Portuguese, given that these complements
do license control PRO, but fail to display the [+eventive]/[+tense] interpreta-
tion in the absence of an overt operator, contrary to what would be predicted in
the null Case theory of control as reviewed above.
Bošković (1997:196, fn21) points out that the English verb claim is also a
problem for the null Case account, given that it allows for PRO (as it can be
seen in the gloss of (31c) above) even though it does not seem to carry a
[+Tense] specification, as shown by the ungrammatical *Anna claimed to
arrive late yesterday, which has an ungrammatical counterpart also in BP (32).
This contrasts with (31c), which allows PRO but is grammatical despite the [–
tense/ –eventive] interpretation of the embedded infinitive, both in Brazilian
Portuguese and in English.
(32) * A Ana alegou chegar tarde ontem.
The Ana claimed arrive- INF late yesterday.
‘* Ana claimed to arrive late yesterday.’
In sum, the facts above indicate that the event/tense based null Case theory
of control does not fare well with respect to propositional infinitives, especially
in Brazilian Portuguese, given that they license PRO as in French, but they
carry the same restriction as in English with respect to the occurrence of
eventive predicates; that is, they require an overt operator to license the
occurrence of an eventive predicate. Similar problems also extend to comple-
ments of verbs such as claim in English, as pointed out above.19
If the
connection between tense and eventive predicates is as proposed in the null
Case approach based on tense, the fact that certain propositional infinitival
complements (as in Brazilian Portuguese and in English) license PRO is left
unexplained, given that they are specified as [−Tense]/[ −eventive], a specifi-
cation that would block control PRO, according to the null Case approach but
contrary to fact.
19
See chapter 1, end of section 3.1, for a related problem regarding certain ECM infinitival
complements in English, which do display a [+tense/+eventive] interpretation but fail to allow
control PRO.
AGREEMENT, CASE, CONTROL AND MOVEMENT IN INFINITIVES 111
8 Other analyses of control
The contrast in the properties of infinitives I analyzed above for Portuguese
has at least a partial parallel in other languages. I discuss in this section several
approaches that have been proposed for other languages (see also discussion
regarding Basque and Quechua in chapter 1), although I do not intend to
review all the details of such approaches in this book. I extend the discussion
in this section primarily to the case of Greek subjunctives, regarding the
empirical data.
A relevant example from Greek is (33), in which na corresponds to a sub-
junctive marker (and is taken to be a Mood marker in some of the relevant
literature):20
(33) I Mariai prospathise eci/*j na diavasi. (Terzi 1997:338 (7))21
Mary tried-3SG PRT read-3SG
‘Mary tried to read.’
Terzi (1997:338) following Iatridou (1988/1993) and Felix (1989), argues
that the subject of the subjunctive complement of verbs like try is PRO, and an
overt subject is not allowed in the same position, similar to what I showed for
English TP-defective gerunds in chapter 2. Summarizing the relevant literature
on control in the Balkan languages, Landau (2004:827) states that construc-
tions such as (33) (which he refers to as C subjunctives, henceforth control
subjunctives) display all the relevant properties of obligatory control PRO: the
embedded subject must be null and coreferential with a c-commanding matrix
antecedent.22
Control by a distant antecedent, or a discourse referent, is
impossible. The embedded null subject also behaves as OC PRO in that it only
permits a sloppy reading under ellipsis, and supports a de se but not a de re
interpretation.23
Terzi (1997) proposes that the subjunctive marker na checks null Case and
licenses PRO in its specifier position, in control subjunctives in Greek
20
See e.g. Philippaki-Warburton 1987, Terzi 1992, 1997, Iatridou 1988/1993, Varlokosta
1994, Philippaki-Warburton & Catsimali 1999, and references therein.
21
Notice that examples in this section from Terzi and other authors are glossed exactly the way
they were glossed in the original.
22
Landau also argues that embedded subjects are excluded in this case. However, Spyropoulos
(2005:6 (15)) provides examples with prospaθo ‘try’, in which an overt DP-subject/pronoun
can also be licensed in the embedded subjunctive, leading to what Spyropoulos takes to be
cases of backward control or controlled overt pronouns.
23
For other relevant analyses of control in different Balkan languages consider Comorovsky
(1985), Farkas (1985), Zec (1987), Turano (1994), Roussou (2001), Krapova & Petkov (1999),
Krapova (2001), Dobrovie-Sorin (1994, 2001).
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
112
(subjunctive na-clauses). Notice, however, that if embedded clauses such as in
(33) carry [–Tense], then the null Case approach to control based on tense
specifications (Martin 1996, 2001), which I discussed in detail in this and other
chapters, cannot be adopted for such cases, because the null Case approach
incorrectly predicts that [–Tense] complements can not license control.
Nevertheless, Terzi attempts to revise the null Case approach to control in
Greek by proposing that M, a Mood head hosting the subjunctive particle na, is
the functional head responsible for null Case checking, instead of the inflec-
tional head (T) carrying tense specification. A limitation of her approach is that
it eliminates the possibility of a unified mechanism triggering control proper-
ties across different languages, given that the dependency of control on a
(subjunctive) mood marker cannot be extended to languages such as English
and Portuguese in which only infinitives license control. However, at least in
the case of Greek, Terzi argues that this eliminates certain problems, involving
for instance empirical cases such as (35) and (36) discussed below, for
proposals that relate null Case to tense distinctions.
Relevant to Terzi’s analysis are cases parallel to control subjunctives, and
which also display null subjects, although they do not display OC PRO
properties. Landau (2004:827) cites Terzi and other relevant work on control in
the Balkan languages to argue that these non-control subjunctives pattern with
indicative clauses, in that no constraint applies to the embedded subject, which
can be either null or overt. Landau initially argues that in such cases, if the
subject is null, it does not display OC PRO properties, in that it can be disjoint
from any matrix argument (34), can be coreferential with a non-c-commanding
antecedent, can carry a strict reading under ellipsis and can have a de re
interpretation (we will return below to a more complex treatment of cases such
as (34)):
(34) I Mariai elpizi eci/j na diavasi. (Terzi 1997:347 (45b))
Mary hopes-3SG PRT read-3SG
‘Mary hopes (for him/her) to read.’
Terzi (1992, 1997:348) provides some evidence to suggest that the contrast
between (33) and (34) cannot be merely one involving a difference in tense
properties. For Terzi, the verb corresponding to ‘want’ in Greek takes embed-
ded subjunctive clauses (35) that license subjects with the same control
properties as ‘hope’ in (34), but the two verbs select complements with
different tense dependencies, as shown by the contrast between (35) and (36)
below:
AGREEMENT, CASE, CONTROL AND MOVEMENT IN INFINITIVES 113
(35) O Yiannis theli na erthi /* irthe. (Terzi 1997:348 (50)).
John want-3SG PRT come-3SG/ came-3SG
‘Mary wants (that he/she) comes/* has come.’
(36) O Yiannis elpizi na erthi/irthe. (Terzi 1997:348 (51)).
John hopes-3SG PRT come-3SG /came-3SG
‘Mary hopes (that he/she) comes/has come.’
Given cases such as these, according to Terzi, “while it is certainly true that
the Tense of Greek subjunctives is defective in several respects, it is not
exactly clear how defective Tense correlates with null Case checking and
licensing of PRO” (Terzi 1997:349), raising an additional question for a tense-
based approach to control such as the null Case theory, in addition to the
problem of the apparent [–Tense] character of the OC PRO case in (33). This
adds to the problems for tense-based approaches to null Case I presented in
previous chapters.
In addition, Terzi points out that tense dependencies such as the ones found
in control subjunctives in Greek are found in subjunctives in languages other
than the Balkan languages, such as Romance, as indicated by the Spanish
example in (37) below, yet a null subject with OC PRO properties is not
licensed in their environment (38):
(37) Juan trata de que coma/*comiera. (Terzi 1997:349 (54-5))
John try-3SG of COMP eat-3SG-SUBJ-PRES/ *PAST
‘John tries for him to eat.’
(38) Juani trata de que ecj/*i coma.
John try-3SG of COMP eat-3SG-SUBJ-PRES
‘John tries for him to eat.’
Terzi points out that the [–Tense] T of Romance subjunctives has instead
been considered responsible for the opposite referential properties of their
subjects, namely for the fact that matrix and embedded subjects cannot be
coreferent.
However, by rejecting a tense-based approach to control, Terzi needs to
provide a different explanation for why the subject of na-clauses in the
complement of ‘want’ and ‘hope’ verbs, such as in (34) and (35), can display
non-control properties. Terzi therefore proposes that the na-clauses that are
complements to ‘want’ and ‘hope’ verbs instantiate two types of null-subject
complements, one licensing only PRO, corresponding to the coreferential
interpretatation in (34) (in a similar way to (33), according to Terzi) and the
other one licensing pro (the disjoint interpretation in (34)) or an overt subject,
as in (40). The two alternatives are respectively represented in (39) (adapted
from Terzi 1997:354 (67-68)):
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
114
(39) a. Vwant/hope [CP [C’ Ø [MP PRO Ø [IP [I’ V… ]]]]]
b. Vwant/hope [CP [C’ M+V [MP pro/DP [M’ eM+V [IP [I’ eV …]]]]]]
(40) I Maria theli na agorasi o Yiannis tin efimerida. (Terzi
1997:355 (69)).
Mary want-3SG PRT buy-3SG John the newspaper
‘Mary wants John to buy the newspaper.’
For Terzi (1997:354), what distinguishes the na-clauses represented in
(39b), corresponding to pro (33) and overt subjects (40), from the OC control
cases illustrated in (39a) is that the complex Mood+V in (39b) moves to C,
from where a postverbal (null or overt) subject is licensed (with nominative
Case) in a manner comparable to Rizzi’s (1982) Aux-to-Comp mechanism (see
also a related proposal in Varlokosta 1993, building on Iatridou 1988/1993).
According to Terzi, this is supported by the unmarked verb-subject order in the
na-clause in (40). However, Terzi does not explain how Rizzi’s Aux-to-Comp
approach can be made compatible with a Minimalist approach to control.
Second, assuming V adjoins to Mood before Mood+V raises to C, this requires
right adjunction, which may not be desirable in an approach that attempts to
restrict the mechanism by which adjunction takes place (e.g. Kayne 1994).24
Finally, Terzi argues that all subjunctive na-clauses are inflected for Agr
and Tense (notice we will return to a more fine-grained approach to this matter
below). However, given this, she needs to explain why nominative Case is not
licensed across the board, unexpectedly extending also to control na-clauses
((33) and the coreferential case in (34)) the same Case properties of examples
such as (40) with an overt subject, and of (34) with the EC interpreted
disjointly as pro. In order to explain why PRO (which for Terzi receives null
Case) is licensed in the same environment as overt subjects and pro, she
considers two alternatives: (i) PRO cannot move to a nominative Case position
(after checking null Case) or (ii) nominative Case position is not even available
in the corresponding control na subjunctives, as represented in (39a). In
alternative (ii), it is not clear how examples such as (34) and (40) with
24
In addition, the prediction of Terzi’s approach is that no element can intervene between na
and a verb. Finally, it is not clear that an analysis in which V raises to Mood and then to C is
ruled out in control na-clauses in Greek. The latter cannot be easily shown because there is no
embedded overt subject that could clearly indicate the position of the verb in control clauses.
This is especially relevant if V movement to (Mood and then) to C can be shown not to be
motivated by nominative Case checking, as pointed out by Kapetangianni & Seely (2006), who
present additional criticism of a related V-to-C approach to nominative Case in Greek as
proposed by Varlokosta (1993).
AGREEMENT, CASE, CONTROL AND MOVEMENT IN INFINITIVES 115
nominative subjects should be allowed, if nominative Case is not available as
the result of the feature specification of the lexical items present in na-clauses
such as (34) (especially if this feature specification is the same both in the
control and non-control counterparts of (34)). In the first alternative, Terzi does
not seem to provide a clear explanation for why only some na-subjunctives
license nominative (pro/overt) subjects, provided a nominative Case position is
present in all na-clauses (as indicated by the Agr and Tense features she argues
are present across the board in these clauses) or at least in the two types of na-
clause represented in (39). An additional problem here is to explain why PRO
is licensed in these na-clauses, if they can also check nominative Case,
different from finite clauses, which can only check nominative Case subjects.
This problem relates closely to the one I analyzed in chapter 1, involving the
availability of both OC PRO and of overt subjects in clausal gerunds.25
Terzi
addresses this problem by arguing the only the na-clauses that license PRO
have an additional Case feature, null Case, but this faces problems regarding
null Case of the sort I pointed out above.
Kapetangianni & Seely (2003, 2006, henceforth K&S) propose an alterna-
tive analysis for na-clauses in Greek, dispensing both with null Case and with
a tense-based approach to control in na-clauses (similar to what Terzi does).
K&S distinguish na-clauses as being of two types, obligatory control (OC) na-
clauses and non-obligatory control (NOC) na-clauses, as proposed by Terzi
and others. They also adopt a movement approach to obligatory control PRO,
following aspects of Hornstein (1999, 2001), in an analysis that has some
parallel to the analysis I developed in this chapter for OC in non-inflected
infinitives in Portuguese (and also adopted in Pires 2001a, b). On the one hand,
K&S propose that control na-clauses such as (33) and the coreferential
counterpart of (34) are defective in their abstract specification of φ-features,
despite their lack of overt morphological distinction from non-control na-
clauses regarding their agreement feature specification. This is similar to what
I proposed for non-inflected infinitives in my analysis of Portuguese in this
chapter. Given their φ-defectiveness, control na-clauses such as in (33) and in
the coreferential case of (34) cannot check nominative Case, but instead
require movement of the embedded subject to the higher clause, where it
checks Case, yielding in the embedded clause a copy of the moved subject
with OC PRO properties. On the other hand, non-control na-clauses such as in
(40) and in the non-coreferential case in (34) are argued by K&S to be
25
One might consider here the possibility of an analysis similar to the one I developed in
chapter 1 for clausal gerunds, which license both control null subjects and overt subjects,
despite the fact that the feature specification of the two types of clausal gerunds is exactly the
same. However, one potential distinction from the analysis I proposed for clausal gerunds is
whether there is a Case feature associated with the embedded na-clause in Greek.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
116
φ-complete, which allows them to check/value nominative Case of an embed-
ded subject.
8.1 Tense, agreement and control
Landau (2004) also explores the properties of control in subjunctive com-
plements in Greek and in other Balkan languages, as part of an attempt to
propose an overarching crosslinguistic approach to different control and non-
control complement clauses. As I discuss below, although Landau’s approach
addresses many important aspects of a broad range of cases crosslinguistically,
it faces potential empirical problems. He argues, in a way partially similar to
the null Case approach to control, that OC PRO is an independent lexical item
in the lexicon which needs to be case marked (although he does not adopt null
Case, nor discusses in detail how a general approach to Case check-
ing/valuation interacts with his analysis). For him, obligatory control is an
instance of Agree, interacting with feature checking and deletion. This is not in
principle incompatible with a movement approach to OC PRO, along the lines
I adopted in this book, although the specific technical apparatus proposed by
Landau is substantially different in certain respects. In the approach I have
adopted here Agree is also necessary for Case checking/valuation (following
Chomsky 2000, 2001), but the crucial difference from Landau’s approach is
that Agree in the current proposal interacts with overt movement without the
need to propose the existence of OC PRO as an independent lexical item, in
accounting for obligatory control. Landau (2004:811) proposes instead that
PRO is in general the “elsewhere” case of referential subjects, even though he
clarifies that his R-assignment rule, the rule in which an “elsewhere” condition
is stated, “is an honest stipulation; it does not pretend to be derived from
deeper principles, although such a possibility obviously exists.” (Landau
2004:842).
Some specific problems arise for Landau’s approach regarding his treatment
of different empirical cases, given other aspects of his approach. He proposes
that the licensing of PRO must be sensitive to the distribution of [Tense] and
[Agr] features both on the Complementizer and on the Inflectional heads (he
adopts a non-split IP projection).26
For him there are three different specifica-
tions of T on the C head and on the Inflectional head. If C is specified for
Tense, its feature specification simply matches the Tense specification of the
Infl head. The two specifications he proposes that are relevant for the current
discussion are in (41):
26
Various aspects of the approach to tense adopted by Landau benefits from insights of
proposals independently developed by Pesetsky & Torrego (2001), although their analysis does
not focus on control phenomena and is not the source of the potential difficulties for Landau’s
analysis.
AGREEMENT, CASE, CONTROL AND MOVEMENT IN INFINITIVES 117
(41) Landau’s specification of T on the C and Infl heads:
a. untensed complements: [–Tense] on both C and Infl.
b. dependent tense complements: [+Tense] on both C and Infl.
As for the specification of the [Agr] feature, there is an important mismatch
in Landau’s approach. He associates [+Agr] on Infl with overt morphology:
“the simplest assumption is that [+Agr] is present iff there is agreement
morphology. This means that the I0
head of infinitives is [–Agr], whereas the I0
head of subjunctives and indicatives is [+Agr].” (Landau 2004:839). However,
he makes a completely different assumption in the case of the C head, by
eliminating any direct connection between abstract agreement features and
overt agreement morphology.27
For Landau the specification [+Tense] on C
forces the specification [+Agr], independently of a correlation to overt
morphology:
(42) “It would greatly simplify our system to assume that any kind of
agreement on C0
, visible or not, is represented as [+Agr]. For the
cases under consideration, I will assume that [+Agr] is parasitic on
[+T], but only in the sense that the latter is a necessary condition for
the former.” (Landau 2004:840).
(42) alone would not necessarily be a problem, since in many generative
approaches to a wide range of phenomena (including the one developed in this
book) abstract feature specifications are proposed in the absence of corre-
sponding overt morphology, provided there is independent motivation
especially in the syntax. However, the main complication regarding the [+Agr]
specification on C in (42) is that it is in opposition to what Landau needs to
adopt for the [+Agr] specification on Infl, which follows from the actual
presence of overt agreement morphology, rather than from the specification of
[+Tense] (as he proposes for C and which in this case is simply a match of the
[+Tense] feature on Infl, as I pointed out in (42)). In addition, one empirical
issue raises a problem for this approach: when Landau considers the case of
Hungarian inflected infinitives in his analysis (following Tóth 2000), he runs
into an apparent contradiction regarding (42), given that he is forced to propose
that Hungarian inflected infinitives have a C that is specified as [–Tense,
+Agr] (Landau 2004:869 (69)). The contradiction here is that C now has a
27
In fact, although there is cross-linguistic morphological evidence for the overt specification
of Agreement features on both complementizers and inflectional heads, Landau does not show
direct evidence for an overt distinction in agreement in complementizers, in the empirical cases
he analyzes.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
118
[+Agr] specification, but it does not follow from a [+Tense] specification,
contrary to what Landau proposes in (42).
Following Reinhart & Reuland (1993) and Reuland & Reinhart (1995),
Landau adopts the view that DPs capable of independent reference are
endowed with the feature [+R], whereas anaphoric DPs are [–R]. However, he
goes on to suggest that “PRO in OC is a null SE-anaphor of sorts (see Martin
1996 for a related proposal). Lacking any inherent specification of φ-features,
PRO is [–R].” (Landau 2004:841). A difficulty here is that Landau argues, as I
summarized above, that “PRO is case-marked just like any other DP.” (Landau
2004:811). Although Landau does not specify the approach to Case check-
ing/valuation he is adopting, the latter two arguments are incompatible with an
approach to Case checking/valuation that is dependent on the lexical specifica-
tion of interpretable φ-features on a DP, especially along the lines of Chomsky
2000, 2001. If PRO is an independent DP that needs to check/value Case, as
Landau argues, it needs to be inherently specified with interpretable φ-features
in order to enter into Agree/Match with a Case checking/valuing head, contrary
to the assumption made by Landau that PRO is an independent lexical item
that lacks any inherent specification of φ-features. If PRO lacks φ-features, it is
not clear how it can enter Case checking/valuation (especially under an
approach to Case checking/valuation involving Agree, as summarized in the
Introduction and chapter 1).28
Consider now an empirical case from Greek which raises problems for
Landau’s analysis. First, here is some additional background on his analysis.
Landau proposes that control and non-control subjunctives in the Balkan
languages need to be distinguished on the basis of the Tense specification of C.
First, Landau assumes that all Balkan subjunctives are specified as [+Agr] both
in the C and in the Infl head (Landau 2004:840 (38)).29
Second, for him all
Balkan subjunctives that display [+Agr] and [+Tense] specification on both C
and I carry dependent tense (41b). Crucially, Landau initially argues, partially
following previous proposals, that obligatory control in the Balkan languages
is found only with subjunctive complements that are semantically untensed
(Landau 2004:825) as in (41a). He then summarizes Varlokosta (1993) (which
also builds on Iatridou 1988/1993), and considers the case of non-control
subjunctives such as (34) to (36), pointing out that these non-control subjunc-
tives define their own (dependent) [+Tense] domain, separate from the matrix
tense domain. He also builds on Varlokosta to argue that, by contrast, control
28
Similar problems have been pointed out in detail by Holmberg (2005) regarding the
licensing/identification of pro, given a Minimalist approach to Case checking/valuation.
29
If one adopts instead the proposal by K&S that control subjunctives in Greek are in fact
φ-defective, one may consider the possibility that their inflectional head could carry a [–Agr]
specification, or at least not [+Agr] in the sense proposed by Landau.
AGREEMENT, CASE, CONTROL AND MOVEMENT IN INFINITIVES 119
subjunctives fall within the matrix tense domain, hence are untensed and
cannot introduce temporal modifiers incompatible with the matrix tense.
However, Kapetangianni & Seely (2006) provide examples such as (43) in
which the subjects display the properties of control subjunctives but in which
the embedded control clause takes a temporal adverbial distinct from the
matrix, indicating that the na-subjunctive is [+Tense], and corresponds to
dependent tense, thus cannot license control under the aspects of Landau’s
analysis above. Under his initial analysis (43) is incorrectly predicted not to
allow control properties because the subjunctive na-clause has [+Tense] and
[+Agr].
(43) hthes o Yanis entharine ti Maria
na erthi avrio sta genethlia tu.
Yesterday the-NOM john-NOM encourage-3SG/PAST the-ACC mary-ACC
NA come-3SG/PRES tomorrow to.the-ACC birthday-ACC his.
‘Yesterday, John encouraged Mary to come to his birthday party
tomorrow’. (K&S 2006, ex. (10))
Some of the empirical evidence K&S present for the obligatory control
treatment of na-clauses such as (43) includes the fact that their empty subject
cannot refer deictically (44a), and it must have a (local) c-commanding
antecedent (44b) (K&S, ex. (11b, c)).30
(44) a. *o Yanis entharine ti Maria1 na ec2
erthi sta genethlia tu
the-NOM John-NOM encourage-3SG/PAST the-ACC Mary-ACC NA
come-3SG/PRES to.the-ACC birthday-ACC his
‘* John encouraged Mary1 ec2 to come to his birthday party.’
b. * o Yanis entharine to filo
tis Marias1 na ec1 erthi sta genethlia tu
the-NOM John-NOM encourage-3SG/PAST the-ACC friend-ACC
the-GEN Mary-GEN NA come-3SG/PRES to.the birthday-ACC his
‘* John encouraged Mary1’s friend ec1 to come to his birthday
party.’
Given that Cases such as (43) display [+Tense] in the embedded clause,
they are initially predicted by Landau to fall into the class of non-control
30
K&S point out other object control verbs that take na-clauses specified for [+Tense] and
[+Agr]), but which also display OC: leo 'tell', epitrepo 'allow', afino 'let', ipochreono 'oblige',
diatazo 'order', vazo 'put', simvulevo 'advise'.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
120
subjunctives (his F-subjunctives). However, Landau’s (2004: 837 (34aii) and
840 (38)) initial prediction that they should display no control is not satisfied.
He proposes the following generalizations, which are not supported by the
empirical facts in (43) and (44):
(45) Finite control in the Balkan languages (Landau 2004:833(23))
a. F-subjunctives carry dependent tense; C-subjunctives carry
anaphoric tense (i.e. they are untensed).
b. pro is licensed in tensed subjunctives, PRO in untensed
subjunctives.
In sum, Greek Cases such as (43) and (44) correspond to control subjunc-
tives and their embedded subject carries OC PRO properties. However,
contrary to Landau’s prediction (following Varlokosta 1993, in the case of
Greek), they are not untensed (i.e. they do not carry anaphoric tense in
Landau’s sense).
Only later does Landau attempt to deal with the fact that [+Tense]
na-subjunctives (his F-subjunctives) in fact correspond to at least two classes
of complements — control and non-control [+Tense] subjunctives, an observa-
tion going back at least to Terzi (1991, 1997:354). First, Landau then proposes
that the [+Tense, +Agr] specifications of both C and Infl in [+Tense] na-
subjunctives each yield an uninterpretable [+R] feature. The [+Agr, +R] on
both Infl and C are then each checked in turn, as the result of the presence of a
lexical DP or a pro in the non-control na-subjunctive (such as (40) or the
disjoint counterpart of (34)). The problem arises with the parallel control case
(e.g. (43) or the coreferential counterpart of (34)). Landau is forced to propose
for these cases that “PRO is licensed precisely because the two occurrences of
uninterpretable [+R] feature – on I0
and on C0
– cancel out by checking each
other off.” (Landau 2004:844 (41b)). Here he does not clarify how this
cancellation mechanism takes place, and how an uninterpretable feature can be
eliminated by the presence of another uninterpretable feature.
In addition, the prediction seen from Landau’s analysis above is that the
[+Tense] na-subjunctives also need to allow an overt DP or a pro as the
embedded subject. Crucially, although this is true for examples such as (35), as
in (40), discussed by Terzi (1997), it is impossible for [+Tense] na-subjunctive
clauses corresponding to (43) to display an embedded overt subject (46), as
shown by K&S 2006 (their ex. (11a)):
AGREEMENT, CASE, CONTROL AND MOVEMENT IN INFINITIVES 121
(46) * o Yanis entharine ti Maria na
erthi o Vassilis sta genethlia tu
the-NOM John-NOM encourage-3SG/PAST the-ACC Mary-ACC NA
come-3SING/PRES the-NOM Bill-NOM to.the-ACC birthday-ACC his
‘* John encouraged Mary that Bill come to his birthday party.’
The latter is also contrary to the prediction that the independent tense in
Varlokosta’s (1993) analysis ([+Tense, +Agr] in Landau’s analyses) should
allow nominative Case to be assigned to an overt or pro subject in the embed-
ded na-clause, although in fact this cannot take place in cases such as (43) and
(46).
In sum, adding to the various mismatches between tense specification and
control properties I discussed in previous chapters, the issues discussed in this
section indicate that tense properties, even in close conjunction with agreement
properties, do not seem to determine control properties in as straightforward a
way as one should expect from various analyses, considering specifically
evidence from Greek from the discussion above.31
8.2 Overt subjects of infinitives in other Romance languages
One issue I have not yet discussed is the way in which the licensing of overt
subjects and PRO in Portuguese infinitives may relate to the limited occurrence
of overt subjects with infinitives in other Romance languages. A broad recent
investigation of this phenomenon is found in Mensching (2000), who examines
how overt subjects are licensed in infinitives clauses in general, in various
Romance languages and dialects, at different historical periods.32
He deals in
detail with the cases of overt subjects of infinitives in Romance languages that
do not display inflected infinitives, including Modern French, Italian and
Spanish. Among these are cases in which verb-subject inversion takes place in
the infinitive clause, such as the Spanish example in (47) (Mensching 2000:6
(8a)):
31
Spyropoulos (2005) reviews other aspects of Landau’s (2004) approach to finite control
regarding Greek. Landau’s proposal also considers partial control and exhaustive control,
which I have not addressed here, given that I did not address the details of this distinction
regarding Portuguese infinitives and English gerunds.
32
Miller (2002) presents another overarching crosslinguistic investigation of nonfinite
structures, both from a synchronic and from a diachronic perspective. See also Vinet (1985) for
French, Piera (1987) for Spanish, Rochette (1988), Torrego (1998) for a recent account of
nominative subjects of infinitives in Spanish, and Salles (2005) and references therein for overt
subjects in exceptional Case marking contexts in Brazilian Portuguese. It is not my intention to
address the multiple implications of these and many other important proposals here (see
additional references in the works I cite here).
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
122
(47) [Haberse Julia presentado a las elecciones] fue un error.
[have-INF-self Julia presented at the elections ] was a mistake
‘The fact that Julia presented herself at the elections was a mistake.’
Mensching argues that most of the underlying syntactic mechanisms that
were developed to account for these and other phenomena especially in the
Government & Binding approach can be derived from a Minimalist approach
to Case checking. Earlier approaches to examples such as (47) involved
different analyses of Infl/V(-to-C) raising, proposed as early as Rizzi (1982) in
his Aux-to-Comp analysis.33
However, contrary to most early approaches to
Case checking, Mensching (2000:ch. 6) initially proposes to license the Case
of overt subjects in infinitives by appealing to Government, despite the fact
that different problems have been pointed out in the literature for the incorpo-
ration of Government into Minimalism, starting with Chomsky 1995a.
Mensching instead proposes a hybrid approach, by appealing to two independ-
ent mechanisms of Case checking: Case checking under Government in
combination with the Minimalist [Spec, head] approach to Case checking
developed in Chomsky (1995a), in which the abstract Case feature on a DP is
taken to be checked in the specifier of the inflectional head that can check
Case. In addition, Mensching proposed that the Case-checking inflectional
heads Agr and/or T (and in some cases also C, as in Italian) of the infinitive
needed to be specified either with an abstract [+Tense] feature or, otherwise
with a [+Agr] feature, in order to be able to check nominative Case of a DP
(Mensching 2000:ch.6).34
Several questions arise regarding this approach.
First, Mensching argues that AgrS can assign nominative Case under a [Spec,
head] relation, whereas T can assign nominative under a Government relation
(Mensching 2000:188), but it is not clear why the two projections that form the
inflectional domain should participate in completely different mechanisms of
Case assignment/checking.35
In an attempt to deal with this problem,
Mensching (2000:7.3.1) considers the possibility of avoiding appeal to
Government by making use a distinction between strong and weak features in
the feature specification of the lexical items involved in Case checking
(adopting the approach to feature strength in Chomsky 1995a). In this way,
33
See discussion in section 8 of a related approach proposed by Terzi (1997) and others to
Greek subjunctives. See also Ambar 1994 and Raposo 1987 for European Portuguese.
34
Mensching adopts a split-IP, making use of both an AgrsP and a TP projection in the
inflectional domain.
35
Mensching makes reference to Case assignment and Case checking in different instances.
Throughout this book I have adopted Case checking/valuation interchangeably as the structural
mechanism by which Case properties are satisfied. However, as I mentioned in chapter 1, I
have not explored the relevance of the distinction between Case checking and Case valuation
for the phenomena I have investigated.
AGREEMENT, CASE, CONTROL AND MOVEMENT IN INFINITIVES 123
weak features would not trigger overt movement of a subject DP to the
specifier of the Case checking head (this is the same intended result in the part
of Mensching’s proprosal that appeals to Case checking under Government, so
that no overt movement of the Case-checking DP is necessary).
Second, Mensching initially makes use of a [+Tense] feature to check
nominative Case (assuming in most cases that there is no [+Agr] feature in the
Inflectional domain that can check Case in non-inflected infinitives). However,
he apparently does not appeal to a [+Tense] feature as an actual semantic
specification of the tense properties of the infinitives, but simply as a way to
provide infinitives with a formal feature specification that can play a role in
Case checking.36
Mensching (2000:ch. 7; 200) subsequently argues that what
allows an infinitive inflectional head T to check nominative Case is the fact
that it carries a [Nom] feature (assuming the symmetric approach to Case
feature specification in Chomsky 1995a, by which the inflectional head and the
DP involved in Case checking both carry a Case feature). Under either
formulation of his approach to Case checking by non-finite T, it is not clear
how the feature specification of finite clauses can be clearly distinguished from
the feature specification of standard infinitive clauses in French, Italian and
Spanish and from non-inflected infinitives in EP and StdBP, if one assumes
that any non-finite inflectional head in Romance carries a feature specification
that can trigger nominative Case checking, making them identical to finite
clauses in this respect. This is especially relevant given that the identity
between finite and non-finite clauses is not perfect, regarding specifically the
position in which overt subjects need to occur in order to check Case, in finite
and in non-finite clauses. Mensching (2000:199) points out, in this respect, that
“the syntactic configurations in which specified subjects are licensed also vary
considerably. In the varieties that allow both preverbal and postverbal subjects
in infinitive constructions, the choice of either position is usually not arbitrary
but rather depends on syntactic properties. This is a fundamental difference
compared to finite constructions, where the position of subjects is largely
dependent on semantic and pragmatic factors.”
Finally, given that the [Spec, head] approach to Case checking adopted by
Mensching is in fact abandoned within a Minimalist approach in which Agree
is the only mechanism involved in Case checking/valuation (Chomsky 2000,
2001), it is possible to consider an alternative possibility to account for the
phenomena addressed by Mensching. This approach also eliminates any appeal
to Government by a c-commanding head as a necessary mechanism to
36
However, Mensching (2000:194) does acknowledge the existence of potential problems
related to this: “A problem that I overlooked in the preceding sections, but which the reader
may have noticed, is that the correlation of certain features is not sufficiently explained.”
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
124
check/value the Case of an overt DP, when the DP remains in the command
domain of the Case checking/valuing head and does not move to its specifier.
Under Agree, if there is no EPP-feature or requirement driving overt move-
ment, Case checking/valuation can take place in-situ. This approach has a
similar effect to the weak-feature checking approach adopted by Mensching, in
his attempt to avoid appeal to Government. Under either approach, the issue
regarding the feature specification (in terms of [Agr], [Tense] and possibly
Case features) of the CP and IP projections remains, since the heads involved
in Case checking/valuation need to be appropriately specified with features
that are relevant for Case, but they also need to be distinguished across
different types of clauses, especially finite and non-finite clauses. I address
certain aspects related to the latter issue in chapter 4.
9 Conclusion
In this chapter I analyzed obligatory control in infinitives in three Portu-
guese dialects, extending to them an analysis of obligatory control as the result
of A-movement. First, the proposal presented above has the advantage of
providing visible morphosyntactic evidence supporting this kind of analysis.
Obligatory control PRO is eliminated as an independent element in the
grammar. This provides support for dispensing with the PRO Theorem and the
Control Module. The minimalist reasoning is that all things being equal, the
fewer modules the better. Furthermore, the current analysis captures in a
straightforward way the contrast between obligatory and non-obligatory
control, and its connection to the inflectional morphology of infinitives in
Portuguese. I additionally addressed the specific case of believe-type verbs,
especially in Brazilian Portuguese, which do not pattern with their correspond-
ing class either in English or in other Romance languages, presenting
significant problems for a tense/event-binding version of the null Case Theory.
Finally, I reviewed several proposals that explore the role of agreement and
tense in the licensing of overt and null subjects in defective domains in other
languages, specifically in Modern Greek and in Romance languages other than
Portuguese, and discuss empirical problems related to the ones I considered in
this book regarding English gerunds and Portuguese infinitives.
CHAPTER 4
SYNTACTIC CHANGE: THE DEVELOPMENT OF
INFLECTED AND NON-INFLECTED INFINITIVES
1 Introduction
This chapter analyzes two major instances of morphological change with
syntactic effects in the behavior of infinitives in Portuguese, and proposes an
account for these changes in terms of a theory of acquisition that emphasizes
the interaction between properties of universal grammar and the primary
linguistic data. This chapter considers phenomena related to those discussed in
previous chapters, but here I focus especially on the connection between
syntactic theory and language change. One further relevant aspect is that it
discusses the historical connection between the inflected infinitives analyzed in
chapter 3 and non-inflected infinitives that display properties similar to those
discussed for the English clausal gerunds in chapter 1. First, I address the
origin of inflected infinitives in Old Portuguese and provide a new argument
supporting one of the two major proposals for their origin, arguing that
inflected infinitives developed from a previously finite verb form, and not from
uninflected infinitives. Second, I analyze the seemingly unexpected syntactic
effects of the loss of inflected infinitives in contemporary Colloquial Brazilian
Portuguese, explaining why the loss of verbal inflection blocked the licensing
of pro but not of overt subjects.
2 Inflected versus non-inflected infinitives
There are two varieties of infinitives in Portuguese: non-inflected or in-
flected for person/number. As shown in chapter 3, Standard Brazilian Portu-
guese (StdBP) in general displays the following person/number paradigm for
inflected infinitives:
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
126
(1) Standard Brazilian Portuguese: Inflected Infinitive
Singular: ROOT-INF
syntax morphology
1SG (eu) fala-r ‘(I) speak- INF -ø’
2SG (você) fala-r ‘(you) speak- INF -ø’
3SG (ele/ela) fala-r ‘(he/she) speak- INF - ø’
Plural: ROOT-INF -INFL (person+number)
syntax morphology
1PL (nós) fala-r-mos ‘(we) speak- INF -1PL’
2PL (vocês) fala-r-em ‘(you) speak- INF -3PL’
3PL (eles/elas) fala-r-em ‘(they) speak- INF -3PL’
In StdBP only plural forms of the inflected infinitive display overt mor-
phology for person/number. European Portuguese differs from StdBP in that it
has overt inflection for second person singular as well, and a different form for
the second person plural.
(2) European Portuguese (EP): Inflected Infinitive1
Singular: ROOT-INF-(INFL) (person+number)
Syntax/morphology
1SG (eu) fala-r ‘(I) speak- INF -ø’
2SG (tu) fala-r-es ‘(you) speak- INF -2SG’
3SG (ele/ela) fala-r ‘(he/she) speak- INF - ø’
Plural: ROOT-INF-INFL (person+number)
Syntax/morphology
1PL (nós) fala-r-mos ‘(we) speak- INF -1PL’
2PL (vós) fala-r-des ‘(you) speak- INF -2PL’
3PL (eles/elas) fala-r-em ‘(they) speak- INF -3PL’
Inflected infinitives share properties with both finite forms and uninflected
infinitival forms of the verb. Like finite forms, they license overt subjects with
overt agreement. Like uninflected infinitives, they occur only in embedded
contexts and reject the complementizer que ‘that’. These characteristics will be
relevant throughout this chapter.
1
The singular forms of the inflected infinitives in European Portuguese have overt inflection
only for 2nd
person.
SYNTACTIC CHANGES: THE DEVELOPMENT OF INFINITIVES 127
3 Theories about the origin of inflected infinitives in Portuguese2
The debate about the origin of inflected infinitives in Portuguese revolves
around two major hypotheses. The first is that inflected infinitives developed
from simple infinitives. The second hypothesis is that inflected infinitives
came from the Latin imperfect subjunctive. Maurer (1968) gives an overview
of earlier attempts to defend each hypothesis. The debate about the origin of
inflected infinitives in Portuguese has been especially controversial due to the
fact that the oldest records of Portuguese already show forms corresponding to
inflected infinitives.
According to the hypothesis that the simple infinitive gave rise to the in-
flected infinitive, regular person/number affixes were added to regular
infinitives, yielding the inflected forms. For Meyer-Lübke (1890) and Bourciez
(1946) this might be the result of confusion between the form of the inflected
infinitive and the subjunctive future, suggesting a process of analogy between
the two forms. I argue against this analysis in this chapter.
Martins (1999) discusses several possible arguments in favor of the infini-
tive-based hypothesis. First, certain Romance languages in which inflected
infinitives appeared developed other inflected non-finite forms. Old Neapolitan
developed inflected gerunds and (more rarely attested) inflected participles
(Loporcaro 1986, Vincent 1996, 1998). Inflected gerunds appeared in some
modern dialects of Galician and Portuguese (Longa 1994). Lobo (2001) points
out that the most complete paradigm of overt inflection with gerunds in
Portuguese was identified the person/number forms in (3) (examples from
Lobo 2001)3
:
(3) a. (tu) vindo+s
‘(you) coming-AGR.2SG’
b. (nós) víndo+mos (Dialectal EP)
‘(we) coming-AGR.1PL’
c. (vós) vínd (o)+eis
‘(you) coming-AGR.2PL’
d. (eles) vind (o)+em
‘(they) coming-AGR.3PL’
2
Parts of the material that follows appeared in an earlier version in Pires 2002 and 2005, and
have been significantly revised and extended. I thank Oxford University Press for allowing me
to include that material here.
3
This paradigm was identified by Martins (1954) in Póvoa de Atalaia, Beira Baixa, Portugal.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
128
However, Martins (1999) argues that inflected gerunds and participles in
these languages only appeared after the development of inflected infinitives
(see also Lobo 2001 for detailed discussion about inflected gerunds in dialectal
European Portuguese). This seems to be the case in Galician and Portuguese,
since inflected gerunds have not been found in early stages of the language. If
other non-finite inflected forms were to be related to the existence of inflected
infinitives, it would be the inflected infinitives that contributed to their
development rather than the other way around. Second, the functions of the
Latin imperfect subjunctive were taken up by the pluperfect subjunctive, the
dominant form by the 3rd
century CE. Therefore, Maurer (1968) raised doubts
about the persistence of the imperfect subjunctive in the Vulgar Latin of the
Luso-Romance area. Wireback (1994) has presented evidence to the contrary,
as I will indicate in the discussion below about the subjunctive-based hypothe-
sis. Finally, nominative subjects are possible in certain uninflected infinitival
clauses of different Romance languages (Ledgeway 1998), which would have
created the appropriate environment for the appearance of inflected infinitives.
Later I will focus on that argument and propose an account that rules out that
possibility and supports the subjunctive-based hypothesis, which I now turn to.
According to the hypothesis that the inflected infinitive originated from the
Latin imperfect subjunctive, clauses without a subordinating conjunction and
with imperfect subjunctive were reanalyzed into infinitival subordinate clauses.
The early attempts to derive the Portuguese inflected infinitives related them to
the occurrence of Latin imperfect subjunctives in volitional clauses, because
this was a context in which the subordinating conjunction ut was often dropped
in Latin; for instance placuit ut traderet ‘it was agreed that he would be-
queath’, could become placuit traderet. However, as pointed out by Maurer
(1968), volitional constructions where ut−ellipsis was common in Latin do not
have a corresponding form with an inflected infinitive in Portuguese. Wireback
(1994) proposes a revision of this theory by locating the origin of inflected
infinitives in purpose clauses, rather than in complement clauses of volitional
predicates. First, Wireback cites Medieval Latin evidence (11th
century) from
Portuguese territory indicating that a Latin imperfect subjunctive form could
be found in purpose clauses, although it had already been replaced by the
pluperfect subjunctive in other syntactic contexts (4).
(4) Et intrarunt in placito testimoniale pro in tertio die
darent testes sicut et fecerunt.
‘And they began the hearing in order to, on the third day,
provide-3PL witnesses, and they did this.’
Verb forms like darent in (4) showed clearly the morphology of the Latin
imperfect subjunctive (Rodrigues 1932:3-4), although they have also been
SYNTACTIC CHANGES: THE DEVELOPMENT OF INFINITIVES 129
interpreted as inflected infinitives (Piel 1944:399, Martins 1999), since there
was no other factor except for the subjunctive morphology that still linked
them to the Latin subjunctive. Second, Wireback (1994) also refers to the
plausibility of a link by means of phonological change between the Latin
imperfect subjunctive and the Portuguese inflected infinitives.
Martins (1999) also explores the subjunctive-based theory for the origin of
inflected infinitives and focuses on subsequent changes in the behavior of
inflected infinitives from Old Portuguese (hereafter OP) to Modern Portuguese
(MP). In particular, she analyzes a type of independent inflected infinitive that
became ungrammatical in Modern Portuguese. In Martins’ terms, independent
OP infinitives were more finite-like than in MP, thus explaining why they
could occur in matrix contexts only in OP. She views that as a gradual change
that turned a finite form, the imperfect subjunctive, into a non-finite one, the
inflected infinitive. In the next section, I will rely on some of the arguments
made by Wireback (1994) and Martins (1999) with respect to the subjunctive-
based theory, but I will propose an explanation for the origin of inflected
infinitives that depends on the interpretation of the primary linguistic data by
children from different generations.
4 A learnability explanation for the origin of inflected infinitives
Here I address the issue of the origin of inflected infinitives from the per-
spective of language acquisition: which specific changes in the primary
linguistic data (PLD) led Old Portuguese speakers to incorporate inflected
infinitives into their grammars. The path I pursue emphasizes the importance
of the PLD for language change. Whatever properties a particular language has
depend on the setting of parameters that are part of Universal Grammar (UG).
These settings have to be appropriately triggered by properties identified by
children when they are exposed to the PLD of a particular language, which I
will refer to here as the input. If the input does not have the necessary informa-
tion for the parameters to be appropriately set, a child fails to set the parame-
ters the same way as in the grammar of his/her parents, yielding a change of
grammars. This change extends to a larger population insofar as other children
fail to identify in the input the information necessary to set the properties of
their grammars the same way as previous generations.
Lightfoot (1999: chapter 6) proposes a model of acquisition in which chil-
dren scan the input in order to identify certain cues provided by UG, which
allow the children to set up the specific properties of their native language.
Similar models have been proposed by Fodor (1998), and by Dresher (1999) in
the domain of phonology. Cues are pieces of linguistic structure that define
properties whose specification is left open by UG. Identifying a cue (or
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
130
“structural trigger” in Fodor’s terms) plays a role similar to parameter setting
in the Government & Binding framework. However, Lightfoot reinterprets the
role played by parameters in previous theories. Some cues are found in most (if
not all) grammars, and some are found only in certain grammars, and that is
the source of language variation. For instance, the cue that allows Ger-
man−speaking children to converge on a V2 grammar is as in (5), where XP
identifies any non-subject maximal projection and C identifies the V2 position,
which can be occupied by a complementizer or by V in C. Children attaining a
non−V2 language also have the ability to identify this cue in the input. If it is
not found, they do not converge on a V2 grammar.
(5) [SpecCP XP[C’ C]
(adapted from Lightfoot 1999:153)
Turning now to the origin of inflected infinitives in Portuguese, one can ask
what cues led Old-Portuguese-speaking children to interpret the input in a
novel way, changing from a system that did not have inflected infinitives to
one that did. From this perspective, let us consider the two major hypotheses
for the origin of inflected infinitives.4
If inflected infinitives originated from Latin imperfect subjunctives, how
could the input have changed to yield them? Martins (1999) points out two
important properties that distinguish inflected infinitives from subjunctives in
Old Portuguese. First, subjunctive clauses take an overt complementizer (que
‘that’) whereas inflected infinitivals never do. Second, according to Zanuttini
(1997: 127), infinitives (but not subjunctives) may be taken to lack a specifica-
tion for mood. This is further supported by the first property, if it is an overt
element in the complementizer position clearly carries a [+Mood] feature, thus
partially incompatible with infinitives, since they lack an overt complemen-
tizer. Therefore, in order for children exposed to Portuguese to learn that their
language has subjunctive forms distinct from indicatives and infinitives, it is
crucial that they identify a complementizer head that carries a subjunctive
mood specification or that they interpret the sentence as carrying a subjunctive
4
Miller (2003) proposes an analysis of the rise of inflected infinitives (conjugated infinitives –
CIs, in his terms) in various languages. He adopts a view similar to the one developed here, by
proposing that “Even in languages with obligatory agreement, CIs require salient triggers.”
However, he considers triggers different from the ones proposed here for the rise of inflected
infinitives across different languages.
SYNTACTIC CHANGES: THE DEVELOPMENT OF INFINITIVES 131
mood specification.5
Therefore, the overt cue for specifying the Mood of a
clause is:
(6) [CP…..+Mood……]
In addition, in order for children to set up the inflectional properties of finite
clauses in their language, they need to identify whether the language carries
overt verbal inflection. Thus, in scanning the PLD they need to find one of the
cues in (7) or (9), depending on whether a verb form carries overt agreement or
not: 6
(7) Cue for overt verbal agreement:
[T [+Agr]]
Where [+Agr] is overt inflection for person and/or number.
This cue is necessary for the acquisition of finite clauses such as (8), in
which the auxiliary verb (in T) carries overt 3Psg (3rd
person singular)
inflection:
(8) Sue has slept well.
(9) Cue for lack of verbal agreement:
[T [−Agr]]
Where [−Agr] represents T without overt inflection for person and/or
number.
This cue can be found in cases such as the past tense in English, which does
not carry distinctive person/number morphology:
(10) Sue call-ed yesterday.
In the cues in (7) and (9) [+Agr] simply indicates overt inflectional mor-
phology, which can be found separately from the main verb, in an auxiliary or
a modal verb (in complex verb forms). It is not crucial that this overt morphol-
5
This opens up that the possibility that the C position can be identified not by the presence of
an overt complementizer, but also by the presence of another overt element in C, such as in the
case of V to C, as it happens in the case of V2 in languages such as German.
6
For simplicity, I assume here a non-split inflectional domain (but cf. for instance Pollock
1989, Rizzi 1997 and Cinque 1999 for inflectional domains with multiple projections). The
discussion here abstracts away from cues for tense and aspect morphology, also necessary in
the acquisition of verbal morphology.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
132
ogy appears in T, although this is possible even in English, in the case of
negative sentences:
(11) Sue does not like tomatoes.
The cues in (6), (7) and (9) should be independent from each other in the
acquisition process, if one wants to account for the different ways they interact
across different verb forms. Portuguese provides clear evidence for that. In the
case of indicative and subjunctive, children find both the cues for mood and
overt inflection in the input. As for inflected infinitives, even though Portu-
guese-speaking children do not find a cue for mood, they clearly identify the
one for overt agreement morphology (7). In the case of non-inflected infini-
tives, they only find the cue for lack of overt agreement (9).
That is exactly what should have happened with the first generations that
incorporated inflected infinitives in their grammars. If Wireback (1994) is right
in saying that the Latin imperfect subjunctive survived in purpose clauses like
(4), these clauses offer the appropriate context for a misinterpretation of the
input. The corresponding Classical Latin clauses were introduced by an overt
complementizer ut, which was often dropped. Once these clauses could occur
without an overt complementizer, new generations no longer had an overt cue
to identify them as subjunctive clauses. Even though they were not able to
identify the subjunctive mood in the imperfect subjunctives with missing
complementizers, they still had clear evidence in the input for the overt
agreement morphology found first in the imperfect subjunctive and later
preserved in the inflected infinitives.
In fact, a more restrictive situation may have in fact taken place, in that it
was only by means of the elimination of the CP projection that the agreement
properties of the infinitive could be accessed directly by new generations, not
indirectly as the result of being subcategorized for by an embedded C, which
was no longer recognized in the input. 7
In sum, what ultimately led to the rise
7
This addresses certain implications of degree-0 learnability for this analysis, assuming that
the approach proposed here is compatible with the existence of a constraint on acquisition and
change along these lines (see Lightfoot 1989, 1994). On the one hand, the existence of
subjunctives as verbal forms highly restricted to embedded clauses may present a challenge for
degree-0 learnability, if subjunctives are analyzed as CPs restricted to embedded domains in a
language. In this case, some mechanism is necessary to make the embedded CP-domain of a
subjunctive accessible for degree-0 learnability. Alternatives to this effect may be the raising
of T to C or a distinction in terms of strong/weak phases in the terms of Chomsky 2000, 2001.
I have discussed related issues elsewhere (Pires 2001d). On the other hand, under the current
analysis, the fact that the complementizer was dropped would have led new generations to
identify the relevant clauses as not projecting a CP, thus eliminating the problems that the
presence of an embedded CP would potentially raise for degree-0 learnability. In fact, there is
SYNTACTIC CHANGES: THE DEVELOPMENT OF INFINITIVES 133
of inflected infinitives was the incomplete identification of the cues necessary
for setting up the subjunctive properties.
One issue I have put aside so far concerns the tense interpretation of the
imperfect subjunctive. This is a further element that should have prevented an
OP-speaking child from mistaking these forms for inflected infinitives.
However, there is evidence that the Latin imperfect subjunctive had a weak-
ened tense specification by imperial times. First, as pointed out by Harris
(1978), it could be used in both past and non-past contexts. Second, the
pluperfect subjunctive eventually took over the uses of the imperfect subjunc-
tive as the primary past tense subjunctive form (Ernout and Thomas 1953:244).
This indicates that the imperfect subjunctive had already lost its past tense
specification by the time it was identified as an inflected infinitive by new
generations.
Turning now to the infinitive-based hypothesis, it is possible to explain why
it is not tenable in the light of a cue-based theory of acquisition and change.
Let us assume for a moment that OP did develop inflected infinitives on the
basis of non-inflected infinitives. Clearly, the child would have to find in the
input the cue for verbal agreement in (7). However, since Latin and early
Romance infinitives did not display any overt agreement morphology, it is
difficult to see how later generations would be able to identify agreement in the
infinitive forms available in the input.
Defenders of the infinitive-based hypothesis have often claimed that infini-
tives developed overt inflectional morphology in OP partly because they
displayed overt subjects. New generations would have felt the need to repair
the form of the infinitive on the basis of the rest of the verbal paradigm,
extending the overt verb morphology to all forms that displayed an overt
subject. In a sense, when children scanned the input and found an overt
subject, they would automatically postulate overt verbal morphology for the
corresponding verb, if it was a non-finite verb. Therefore, the cue for overt
verbal morphology would not be (7), but just the occurrence of a lexical
subject. However, the cue-based theory advocated here rules out that possibil-
ity for several reasons. First, it emphasizes the need for cues to be locally
identified, given the fact that they have to be identified in the input in the same
syntactic domains in which they will occur in the acquired grammar (see
Lightfoot 1999: chapter 6 for additional discussion). So, this restricts the place
for overgeneralizations on the basis of analogies across different syntactic
empirical motivation suggesting that access to at least part of an embedded non-finite clause is
possible for learnability purposes, for instance in the account proposed by Lightfoot (1989,
1994) for what counts as an accessible domain for language learnability. Lightfoot argues that
at least the head of a non-finite embedded clause and its Spec are still part of a degree-0
learnability domain, which he defines in terms of binding domains.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
134
contexts found in the input, such as the analogy between finite and non-finite
forms that would be necessary for an analogy-based explanation for the rise of
inflected infinitives in Portuguese.8
One can alternatively grant the infinitive-based hypothesis the need to
repair the structure of non-inflected infinitives’ overt subjects on the basis of a
requirement of Universal Grammar (UG), namely that DPs need to be assigned
Case. However, if it were so, it would be difficult to understand why overt
subjects were possible at all in Latin and in Early Romance, if they were not
Case-checked by other mechanisms such as Exceptional Case Marking (ECM),
which would presumably have remained in the transition from Late Latin to
OP. Furthermore, non-inflected infinitives with non-ECM overt subjects
(personal infinitives) are possible in certain contexts across languages (for
Spanish, Rumanian, and several Italian dialects, see Ledgeway 1998; see also
chapter 3, section 8.2) and there is no record of other languages where the
occurrence of lexical subjects within infinitive domains clearly led to the
development of inflected infinitives. If there is any strategy common across
these languages for assigning Case to overt subjects of infinitives, it appears to
involve I-to-C movement. Interestingly, that strategy was available in OP
(Ribeiro 1995) and is currently found in European Portuguese inflected
infinitives, suggesting that although the overt inflection of infinitives is
instrumental in assigning Case to infinitive subjects (see chapter 3), the
presence of verb inflection should not be the result of a repair operation
required by UG in the transition from Latin to OP. Even if it were so, one
crucial aspect necessary for the infinitive-based hypothesis to go through
should be a high occurrence of lexical subjects with infinitives in OP. How-
ever, Wireback (1994) shows exactly the opposite pattern for the use of
inflected infinitives in a set of texts dated up to the early 15th
century:
(12) Inflected infinitive subjects (Wireback 1994:549, table 2):
subject status occurrences percentages
no lexical subject 138 90.2
with lexical subject 15 9.8
8
This raises questions regarding which mechanisms would have given rise to inflected gerunds
and inflected participles, in the dialects that developed them. If indeed analogy played a role in
the rise of such forms, the analogy would at least have been limited within the paradigm of
non-finite forms found in the language, in that inflected gerunds or participles would appear in
grammars that already had inflected infinitives. Under these circumstances, at least some
restriction is necessary to prevent analogy between finite and non-finite forms.
SYNTACTIC CHANGES: THE DEVELOPMENT OF INFINITIVES 135
Other Romance languages that developed inflected infinitive forms appear
to have taken a path similar to the one suggested here for Portuguese. The
inflected infinitives of Old Neapolitan have been argued to derive from the
Latin pluperfect indicative (Loporcaro 1986), whereas those found in the
Logudorese-Nuorese dialects of Sardinian have also been said to derive from
Latin imperfect subjunctives (Jones 1992).
Now let me address one further aspect in the history of inflected infinitives
that might be taken to represent a problem for the approach proposed here. As
argued by Martins (1999), unlike its modern counterpart, OP did not allow
inflected infinitival clauses as complements of causative and perception verbs
(ECM verbs). They become common as complements of ECM verbs only in
the 16th
century. According to Martins, this was so because ECM complements
in OP had a more impoverished structure, which did not support agreement,
negation or syntactic cliticization within the infinitive clause. Martins argues
that a change in the selectional properties of ECM verbs yielded the possibility
of a less defective structure for their complements, allowing later for the
occurrence of inflected infinitives as complements of causative and perception
verbs. What is relevant with respect to this further change is that the late
appearance of inflected infinitives as complements of causative and perception
verbs may be taken to be a counterargument to the view proposed here that
inflection could not have developed within non-inflected infinitives with a
lexical subject. However, this change is clearly different from the one that
originally gave rise to inflected infinitives in Portuguese. First, in the case of
complements of causative and perception verbs, the use of inflected infinitives
constituted just an extension to another context of the use of an inflected
infinitive form that was already present in the language, and not an innovation
by which an inflected infinitive would have appeared in new grammars without
any relevant trigger on the PLD, as proposed in the analogy-based view that I
attempt to restrict here. Second, as argued by Martins, the use of inflected
infinitives seemed to parallel the appearance of object clitics and negation
within embedded infinitive complements of causative and perception verbs.
These two properties already applied to inflected infinitives in other contexts in
the language, and did not need to be postulated as innovations in causative and
perception verb contexts.
In sum, the arguments above strongly support the hypothesis that inflected
infinitives developed from another inflected verbal form (imperfect subjunc-
tives from late Latin) that already existed in the primary linguistic data new
generations were exposed to. In the case of the hypothesis that inflected
infinitives in OP grew out of uninflected infinitives, the necessary steps would
be much more complex in terms of acquisition, since it would actually be
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
136
necessary to postulate that infinitives developed a person/number inflection
system that was not found in any other non-finite context.9
5 Explaining the effects of the loss of inflected infinitives
In this section I turn to the analysis of a second major change in the history
of inflected infinitives in Portuguese: their ongoing loss in Colloquial Brazilian
Portuguese (hereafter ColBP). The loss of the inflected infinitive morphology
might be taken to turn inflected infinitives entirely into non-inflected infini-
tives, with respect to their syntactic properties. However, that loss affects only
the licensing of null subjects, not the licensing of overt subjects. First, I
summarize the analysis presented in chapter 3 for the licensing of null subjects
in dialects that still have the contrast between inflected and non-inflected
infinitives, and show how ColBP follows a similar pattern. Finally, I address
the licensing of overt subjects in infinitives and provide a cue-based account of
how the properties of the PLD allow for the licensing of overt non-ECM
subjects with the now uninflected infinitives of most ColBP dialects, a
possibility that is not available outside ECM contexts in dialects where
inflected infinitives are productive.
5.1 Licensing of null subjects in dialects with inflected infinitives
As I discussed in chapter 3, In European Portuguese (EP) and Standard
Brazilian Portuguese (StdBP) only null subjects of non-inflected infinitives
consistently show properties of obligatory control (OC), whereas subjects of
inflected infinitives display properties of non-obligatory control. For instance,
obligatory control null subjects, standardly represented by PRO (but see
chapter 3 for a different analysis of these phenomena), must have a local c-
commanding antecedent (13a). So, the entire bracketed matrix DP in (13a) is
the only possible antecedent for PRO in the embedded clause. A local c-
commanding antecedent is not needed for the subject of the embedded
infinitive in (13b), which is inflected. Besides the possibility indicated in that
example, in which pro is co-referential with a non c-commanding antecedent
(nossos ‘our’), pro could also be disjoint in reference from any DP in the
sentence, at least with a 1st
person plural inflected infinitive.
9
Similar problems arise with respect to the development of inflected gerunds in dialects of
Western Iberian languages. However, it has been observed that these forms were found in
languages that already had another inflected non-finite form, suggesting a process similar to
the one that took place with infinitives as complements of causative and perception verbs in
Portuguese. See also fn. 8.
SYNTACTIC CHANGES: THE DEVELOPMENT OF INFINITIVES 137
(13) a. [Os pais do Pauloj]k lamentam PRO*j/ k chegar tarde.(EP)
[The parents of-the Pauloj]k regret PRO*j/ k arrive-INF late.
‘[Pauloj’s parents]k regret PRO*j/ k to arrive late.’
b. [Os nossosj pais] lamentam proj chegarmos tarde.
The ourj parents regret proj arrive-INF-1PL late.
‘Our parents regret our arriving late.’
Second, OC PRO only allows a sloppy reading under ellipsis. For instance,
when the elided material — ‘accepts to vote all the proposals today’ — is
interpreted in (14a), it can only mean that ‘Ana herself accepts to vote all the
proposals today’. This contrasts directly with (14b), where the second conjunct
must be interpreted as ‘Ana accepts that we vote all the proposals today’,
corresponding to a strict interpretation of the ellipsis site.
(14) a. O Pedroj aceita PROj/*k votar todas as propostas hoje e
a Ana também. (=Ana aceita votar todas as propostas hoje
(StdBP).
The Pedroj accepts PROj/*k vote-INF all the proposals today and
the Ana too. (=Ana accepts to vote all the proposals today)
‘Pedro accepts to vote all the proposals today and Ana does too.
(=Ana accepts to vote all the proposals today).’
b. O Pedroj aceita prok votarmos todas as propostas hoje
e a Ana também. (=Ana aceita que nós votemos todas as propostas
hoje) (StdBP).
The Pedroj accepts prok vote- INF -1PL all the proposals today
and the Ana too. (=Ana accepts that we vote all the proposals
today).
‘Pedro accepts that we vote all the proposals today and Ana does
too. (=Ana accepts that we vote all the proposals today).’
Second, consider the impossibility of split antecedents with OC PRO. PRO
in the non-inflected infinitive in (15a) does not allow an interpretation in which
both ‘I’ and ‘Maria’ form a set that behaves as the antecedent for PRO. (15b) is
clearly distinct in that respect. Here pro is co-referential with a set of elements
that can include both ‘I’ and ‘Maria’.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
138
(15) a. Euj convenci a Mariak PROk/*j+k a viajar com o Paulo.
(EP & StdBP/some informants)
Ij convinced the Mariak PROk/*j+k to travel- INF with the Paulo.
‘Ij convinced Mariak PRO k/*j+k to travel with Paulo.’
b. Euj convenci a Mariak proj+k a viajarmos com o Paulo.
Ij convinced the Mariak proj+k to travel- INF -1PL with the Paulo.
‘Ij convinced Mariak that wej+k (should) travel with Paulo.’
Chapter 3 presents a detailed analysis of the contrast between inflected and
non-inflected infinitives in Portuguese with respect to properties including the
ones mentioned above. Following a proposal by Hornstein (1999), OC PRO in
the non-inflected infinitive was analyzed as the result of NP-movement for
Case-checking reasons. That analysis allowed multiple θ-roles to be discharged
on DPs, as the result of movement (following proposals in Bošković 1994,
Lasnik 1995, and contra Chomsky 1995a, 2001). A movement analysis
explains, for instance, why split antecedents are not possible in (15a),10
if we
consider that the embedded DP cannot move into two different positions in the
matrix clause. Consider the analysis for (16).
(16) a. [TP2Nósj [VP2 nós conseguimos [TP1 nósj/*k [VP1 nós sair ]]]].11
[TP2Wej [VP2 we managed [TP1 wej/*k [VP1 we leave-INF]]]].
‘We managed to leave.’
The subject of the matrix clause in (16) is first merged in the embedded
clause, where it is assigned a θ-role in VP1 and the EPP-feature in the Spec of
TP1, but cannot have its Case checked. That is because [Spec, TP] of a
non-inflected infinitive clause doesn’t have a complete φ-set (at least person
and number; Chomsky 2000, 2001), so it is not a Case-checking position,
although it carries a [−interpretable] EPP-feature. Therefore, the embedded
subject must be raised to the matrix clause where it is assigned a θ-role in VP2,
the EPP-feature of TP2, and its own Case feature, freezing in [Spec, TP2].
10
The judgments reported in this case correspond to speakers who consider split antecedents to
be ungrammatical. This is also what I observed for clausal gerunds in chapter 1, although in
other obligatory control domains split infinitives have been taken to be acceptable (see e.g.
Landau 2003).
11
As in chapter 3, I analyze Portuguese infinitives as TPs. This is supported by the analysis of
obligatory control subjects as involving A-movement to the matrix clause, which I adopted in
chapter 3. A-movement out of a CP might face additional complications. I do not address here
the optional fronting of the verb and facts about wh-movement discussed in Raposo (1987),
who argues for a distinction between TP and CP for inflected infinitives in EP. Galves (1991)
proposes that they are always CPs.
SYNTACTIC CHANGES: THE DEVELOPMENT OF INFINITIVES 139
Once all the features have been checked the lower copies are deleted and the
derivation converges.
Recall now why inflected infinitives allow either an embedded overt subject
or a null subject with non-obligatory control interpretation. T of the inflected
infinitive in (17) carries a full set of φ-features (as indicated by the overt
person/number morphology), which can check the Case feature of a null
subject or overt DP occurring in the subject position of the infinitival clause,
blocking any further movement.
(17) [TP2 A Mariaj [VP2 a Maria chegou [PP antes de [TP1 nós/prok
[VP1 nós/prok sairmos]]]]].
[TP2 the Mariaj [VP2 the Maria arrived [PP before [TP1 we/prok
[VP1 nós/ prok leave-INF-1PL]]]]].
‘Maria arrived before we left.’
Notice that in (17) the adjunct is built first in the derivation separately from
the matrix clause, allowing for extraction out of the adjunct (by side-
wards/interarboreal movement) before it is merged with the matrix clause. See
chapter 3 for further details. So, what blocks movement of the embedded
subject is not the fact that the infinitive is an adjunct, but the fact that the
embedded subject cannot move further after having its Case checked. Move-
ment is blocked in the same way in instances of an inflected infinitive com-
plement selected by the matrix verb.
I refer to the null subject in (17) as pro, which is understood as an inde-
pendent lexical item in most accounts (see chapter 3). It stands for a null
subject that is not the residue of further movement of the subject to the matrix
clause, which explains why it is not subject to the obligatory control properties
I discussed before.
However, both in EP and StdBP, T of a non-inflected infinitive cannot
check the Case feature of a lexical subject in (18a) or of pro in (18b). These
examples are parallel to (17), but they are ungrammatical because the embed-
ded infinitive is not inflected. Since the non-inflected infinitive T does not have
a complete set of φ-features in (18), the derivation crashes because the
embedded subjects have not been able to check their Case.
(18) a. * [TP2 A Mariaj [VP2ligou [PP antes de [TP1 nósk [VP nósk sair]]]]].
[TP2 A Mariaj [VP2 called [PP before [TP1 we [VP we leave-INF]]]]].
* ‘Maria called before we to leave’
b. * [TP2 A Mariaj [VP2ligou [PP antes de [TP1 prok [VP prok sair]]]]].
[TP2 A Mariaj [VP2called [PP before [TP1 prok [VP prok leave- INF]..
* ‘Mariaj called before prok to leave’
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
140
Nevertheless, as I will analyze next, the loss of inflected infinitives in Col-
loquial Brazilian Portuguese has yielded unexpectedly opposing results with
respect to the licensing of non-ECM subjects in infinitive examples like (18).
Whereas (18b) is ungrammatical in ColBP, (18a) is grammatical, contrary to
what happens in the dialects with inflected infinitives. In the remainder of this
section I will explain these two dissimilar effects in terms of a cue-based
theory of language acquisition and change.
5.2 Loss of verbal agreement in Colloquial Brazilian Portuguese
Different dialects of ColBP have lost the overt inflectional morphology for
person/number in inflected infinitives, because of two different factors. First,
there has been a general reduction in the number of distinctive verb forms due
to the changes in the pronominal system shown in (19).
(19) Changes in the pronominal system in ColBP:
a. The new 2nd
person form (você(s) ‘you(pl)’) requires the 3rd
person
verbal form, also used for 3rd
person with names and with 3rd
person pronouns
(ele(s), ela(s) ‘he, she (they)’).12
b. The form a gente ‘the folks’ has replaced the 1st
person plural pro-
noun nós ‘we’ in subject position in most dialects, and its agreement morphol-
ogy corresponds to 3rd
person singular, although it refers to 1st
person plural in
the discourse, as shown in the gloss in (20).
Second, there was a general reduction in the verbal inflection of Brazilian
Portuguese since the 18th
century, partially due to independent factors but also
to the elimination of the inflectional distinctions among the different persons in
the verbal paradigm, as shown in (19). Its effects for inflected infinitives are
seen in (20), which shows that the loss of inflectional morphology has caused
inflected infinitives to become identical to non-inflected infinitives. Only two
distinct inflectional forms exist in Standard Brazilian Portuguese inflected
infinitives (1st
person plural and 3rd
person plural), but in ColBP the 3rd
person
plural marking for person/number is used less and less, and has disappeared
entirely from some dialects, together with the 1st
person plural marking even in
dialects that still license the form nós ‘we’. For these reasons, one might just
say that inflected infinitives have been completely wiped out from ColBP.
Although that is true from a morphological point of view, the fact that
infinitives in ColBP still license overt non-ECM subjects indicates that the
12
These changes in the verbal forms resulting from change of overt pronouns carried over to
the choice of verbal person forms used with null subject pro.
SYNTACTIC CHANGES: THE DEVELOPMENT OF INFINITIVES 141
syntactic properties associated with inflected infinitives in previous stages of
the language were not entirely eliminated.
(20) Loss of inflected infinitive morphology in ColBP:
SG 1 (eu) falar ‘(I) speak-INF-ø’
2/3 (você/ele/ela) falar ‘(You/he/she) speak-INF -ø’
PL 1 (nós) falarmos ‘(We) speak-INF-1PL’
1 a gente falar ‘(We) speak-INF-ø’
2/3 (vocês/eles/elas) falarem ‘(You/they) speak-INF-3PL’
The widespread loss of verbal agreement is discussed in Lemle and Naro
(1977), who looked at the frequency of verbal agreement for speakers from
different social classes, and found that certain speakers may drop verbal
agreement almost entirely, depending on the position of the subject (21). These
results cover all different verbal contexts.
(21) Frequency of verbal agreement in BP according to position of subject
(from Lemle & Naro 1977):
Informant Distant or elided
subject
Local preverbal
subject
Post-verbal
subject
AD 22/35 = 62.9% 45/107 = 42.1% 1/18 = 5.6%
TI 27/136 = 19.9% 22/222 = 9.9% 1/24 = 4.2%
CE 50/64% = 78.1% 63/115 = 54.8% 1/8 = 12.5%
The more severe loss of verbal inflection when there is no local preverbal,
subject, as shown in (21), suggests that the loss of verbal agreement in
Brazilian Portuguese correlates with the occurrence of overt subjects in the
language, and the position in which the subject is realized. In general, post
verbal subjects do not trigger overt agreement, whereas preverbal, non-local or
elided subjects do, especially for speakers who still use verbal agreement
frequently.13
13
The factors that determine the occurrence of overt agreement may be of two kinds: (i) overt
agreement arises when the overt lexical subject raises overtly to Spec, TP, in the case of
preverbal subjects; (ii) in the absence of a local overt subject, overt inflection itself may be
required to satisfy certain features of the clause. These may involve identification of a null
subject, in dialects that preserve null referential subjects.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
142
5.3 Null subjects of infinitives in Colloquial Brazilian Portuguese
The loss of inflectional morphology in infinitives in ColBP as described in
the previous section has a clear syntactic effect: properties of NOC are not
licensed with the now uninflected infinitives of ColBP. Therefore, the
possibility of a null subject (pro) with non-obligatory control properties is
blocked in an embedded infinitive example like (18b), repeated here in (22).
(22) * [TP2 A Mariaj [VP2ligou [PPantes de [TP1 prok [VP prok sair ]]]]].
[TP2 A Mariaj [VP2called [PPbefore [TP1 prok [VP prok leave-INF]]]]].
* ‘ Maria called before we to leave’
Consider another example (23) from ColBP, in which the 1st
person plural
verb form for the inflected infinitive can no longer be used. As we saw in the
previous section, in ColBP the 1st
person plural pronoun nós ‘we’ has in
general been replaced by the form a gente (literally ‘the folks’, but interpreted
as ‘we’).
(23) Euj convenci a Mariak [PROk/*j+k a viajar(*mos) hoje].(ColBP)
Ij convinced the Mariak [PROk/*j+k to travel-INF-(*1PL) today].
‘Ij convinced Mariak PROk/*j+k to travel today.’
Although the verbal morphology of the embedded infinitive above is com-
patible with the current 1st
person plural form a gente, the null subject of the
embedded infinitive in (23) cannot receive the interpretation associated with 1st
person plural. That is, only obligatory control properties are possible in such
cases, and the only possible interpretation for the null subject of the embedded
infinitive has Maria as its antecedent. As we saw in the previous section, this is
explained if the null subject of an infinitive without inflection is just the
residue of movement of the DP Maria to the matrix clause.
In this respect, ColBP behaves like the other Portuguese dialects that still
preserve inflected infinitives, since its now morphologically uninflected
infinitive licenses null subjects exactly like the non-inflected infinitive found
in other dialects. However, ColBP now has only the form corresponding
morphologically to non-inflected infinitives, so it can only license an infinitive
null subject that has obligatory control properties, which I analyzed in section
5.1 as the result of A-movement to the matrix clause. In this respect, ColBP
has become like other languages that do not have an inflected form for the
SYNTACTIC CHANGES: THE DEVELOPMENT OF INFINITIVES 143
infinitive (English, French, Spanish), which usually license in infinitives only
null subjects with obligatory control properties.14
From the perspective of language acquisition and change, the facts above
suggest that the licensing of pro (a null subject with non-obligatory control
properties) in a language with verbal agreement is dependent on the occurrence
of overt verbal agreement in the sentence.15
Therefore, EP children have to
identify a cue like (24) in the input in order to internalize pro as part of their
grammars.
(24) [TP ∅ [T [+Agr]…]]
Where [+Agr] is overt inflection for person and/or number.
Crucially, the child has to be able to identify clearly that there is no overt
subject in the relevant input, as indicated by ∅ in (24). Agreement itself may
be realized directly on the Tense head, or it may be realized on a verbal head
locally subcategorized for by T, even if this verbal head does not raise overtly
to T. Any verbal forms that contain person/number agreement, including
auxiliaries, modals, and main verbs, will be relevant for the identification of
the cue (24) by the child. With respect to ColBP (and other languages without
inflected infinitives, for that matter), if children of new generations are
exposed to input where (24) is not available in infinitives, they do not allow for
pro in that context in their grammars. This provides a cue-based explanation
for the observations made by Rodrigues (2002), who argued that there was a
general weakening of verbal inflection in ColBP, blocking the possibility of a
null subject with non-obligatory control properties (pro) in embedded finite
contexts. It is necessary to add that the cue (24) is just one possible way to
allow children to identify pro as part of their grammar. Since languages with
impoverished agreement systems such as Chinese also license pro (see Jaeggli
and Safir 1989), other mechanisms must be available in UG to trigger the
occurrence of a null subject with non-obligatory control properties.
14
But see Mensching 2000 for discussion of a wide range of cases of overt subjects in
infinitives in Romance, and Torrego 1998 specifically regarding overt subjects of infinitives in
Spanish.
15
This has some connection to various theoretical proposals regarding the licensing of pro in
languages with overt verbal agreement (see e.g. Rizzi 1986 for some early work on this), even
though I put aside certain issues such as the hypothesis that uniformity of agreement may also
play a relevant role (see Jaeggli and Safir 1989). Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou 1998 make a
proposal to eliminate at least expletive pro, arguing that there is an EPP requirement which can
be satisfied by the inflection on the verb, instead of having a DP merge in Spec, TP.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
144
In sum, a cue-based account for the loss of inflectional morphology in
inflected infinitives in Portuguese provides a straightforward explanation for
why ColBP has lost its ability to license pro in these contexts.
Finally, from the perspective of learnability, one actually expects the child
to look for the cue in (24) not in embedded non-finite domains, but in unem-
bedded domains such as simple matrix clauses. In case null subjects (pro) are
identified in matrix clauses on the basis of overt agreement, they can also
occur in embedded contexts that display overt verbal inflection.16
5.4 Licensing of overt subjects in non-inflected infinitives
I turn now to the seemingly unexpected effect of the loss of inflectional
morphology in ColBP inflected infinitives: they did not lose their ability to
license overt subjects, which indicates that the morphological loss didn’t
simply turn them into the usual kind of non-inflected infinitives, which do not
license overt non-ECM subjects in other dialects. Therefore, examples like
(18a), turn out to be grammatical in ColBP, as in (25a) (also with the possibil-
ity of full DPs as overt embedded subjects), even though the infinitive no
longer has the inflectional morphology associated with Case checking in other
dialects. Furthermore, the impossibility of an oblique or accusative pronoun17
16
Notice, however, that non-obligatory control null subjects may only occur in a restricted way
in matrix clauses in Brazilian Portuguese, without extending to embedded clauses. It is
possible to have a null 1st
person singular subject in the matrix clause in (ib), but not in the
related (ic). Given that these cases of null subjects do not extend automatically to embedded
subjects, something else needs to be said about the mechanism that licenses them. Rodrigues
(2002, 2004:82-93) analyzes cases such as (ib) as topic deletion restricted to matrix clauses,
following Huang 1984, and not as involving the mechanisms required for licensing referential
pro on the basis of agreement, and which would be related to the cue in (24).
(i) a. O que você fez?
The what you did?
‘What did you do?’
b. pro li um livro.
pro read-1SG a book.
‘I read a book.’
c. Todo mundo pensa que eu/*pro li um livro.
Everyone thinks that I/pro read-1SG a book.
‘Everyone thinks that I read a book.’
17
Oblique pronouns are the pronominal forms that also occur as complements of prepositions
in different dialects of Portuguese. They are distinct from accusative and dative pronouns used
as direct or indirect objects of verbs, and which behave as clitics, as shown by the contrast in
(i). Notice that the accusative and dative forms of pronouns are morphologically distinct only
in the 3rd
person:
SYNTACTIC CHANGES: THE DEVELOPMENT OF INFINITIVES 145
in the subject of the infinitive in (25a) indicates that this does not correspond to
an instance of ECM, which licenses accusative Case in combination with clitic
climbing in Portuguese, as shown by (25b):
(25) a. [TP2 A Mariaj [VP2 ligou [PP antes de [TP1 nós /eu /
*mim-OBL/ *me.ACC sair ]]]]]. (ColBP)
[TP2 A Mariaj [VP2 called [PP before of [TP1 we.NOM/ I.NOM/
*me.OBL / *me.ACC leave-INF]]]]].
‘Maria called before we/I/*me left.’
b. [TP A Mariaj [VP2 me.ACC viu [VP1 me sair ]. (BP)
[TP A Mariaj [VP2 me.ACC saw [VP1 me leave-INF]
‘Maria saw me leaving.’
Notice that the occurrence in ColBP of similar examples embedded in the
subject position of the matrix clause (26) shows that the subject of the
infinitive does not have its Case checked directly by an element of the matrix
clause.
(26) [O Carlos e o Pedro/eu.NOM/*mim.OBL/*me.ACC chegar cedo]
não surpreendeu ninguém. (ColBP)
[The Carlos and the Pedro/I.NOM /*me.OBL /*me.ACC arrive late]
not surprised noone.
‘[Carlos and Pedro/I/*me arriving late] did not surprise anyone.’
Examples like (25) and (26) do not occur in dialects with inflected infini-
tives, where an inflected infinitive is required in the embedded clause in order
for the non-ECM embedded subject to have its Case checked. It has been
argued that (inflected and non-inflected) infinitive clauses need to occur in a
Case-checking position in dialects with inflected infinitives (EP, see Raposo
1987). That requirement also holds for the now uninflected infinitives of
ColBP, where the relevant distinction is only that an overt non-ECM subject
can occur without overt morphology in the infinitive. Given the dependence
between overt subject licensing and overt inflection in non-ECM infinitives in
other dialects, it is puzzling that although ColBP lost the overt morphology of
(i) a. Ele me falou da Maria.
He me-DAT talked of-the Maria.
‘He talked to me about Maria.’
b. Ele falou de mim.
He talked of me-OBL
‘He talked about me.’
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
146
inflected infinitives, it didn’t lose the possibility of overt subjects with non-
ECM infinitives.18
I turn now to an explanation of this puzzle in the light of a cue-based theory
of acquisition and change. Children exposed to EP will clearly be able to
identify the cue for overt agreement introduced in (7) and repeated below. That
cue is also crucial in learning other languages that have overt agreement in
finite domains, such as Italian, Spanish and German:
(27) Cue for overt verbal agreement:
[T [+Agr]]
Where [+Agr] is overt inflection for person and/or number.
Before we consider the status of ColBP let us consider a possibility that is
opposite to EP: that of a language that does not have overt agreement either in
matrix or in embedded clauses. That appears to be the case of Chinese. Chinese
children do not find the cue for overt agreement in their PLD. The question
then is how overt subjects have their abstract Case checked in Chinese. In the
Minimalist Program (Chomsky 1995a, 2000, 2001) even though there is no
overt agreement morphology, there is still a syntactic operation involving
person and/or number feature agreement, which is necessary for structural
Case checking. That operation, referred to as Agree in Chomsky 2000, 2001, is
taken to be a property of UG that applies to any language. So, Chinese seems
to instantiate only the syntactic counterpart of agreement, whereas EP displays
both syntactic and morphological agreement. Hence, morphological agreement
can be taken as a language specific morphological realization of a universal
syntactic relation Agree. In this respect, a Chinese child finds the cue for lack
of agreement morphology, introduced in (9) and repeated below:
(28) Cue for lack of verbal agreement:
[T [−Agr]]
Where [−Agr] represents T without overt inflection for person and/or
number.
18
Notice that ColBP examples (25a) and (26) contrast with (i), in which some speakers accept
or prefer an oblique pronoun as subject of the infinitive, indicating that these speakers may
analyze infinitives as instances of ECM only when selected by the preposition para ‘for’, but
not in other positions:
(i) Isso é para eu / mim fazer. (ColBP)
This is for I.NOM/ me.OBL do.
‘This is for me to do.’
SYNTACTIC CHANGES: THE DEVELOPMENT OF INFINITIVES 147
Turning now to overt subject licensing, it seems to be a general fact about
languages that they may have overt subjects at least in matrix domains and,
usually, also in embedded domains. Languages vary with respect to the
structural conditions under which abstract Case checking takes place. For some
languages, it depends on the occurrence of overt inflection in non-ECM
contexts. With respect to Portuguese, once the person/number agreement
system is in place in EP, we expect the child not to produce overt non-ECM
subjects in contexts where overt verbal agreement does not occur. EP speakers
learn that nominative Case is checked in the presence of overt verbal inflec-
tion. In terms of a cue-based theory of acquisition and change, the appropriate
cue EP children need to find in their PLD should roughly be just an extension
of the overt morphology cue (27), as shown in (29). I simplify the representa-
tion of the cue here, putting aside the possibility of structural Case checking
when the DP that needs to check its Case does not move overtly to the Spec of
the Case-checking functional head, as is argued to happen for instance in the
case of postverbal subjects in Romance languages such as Italian and Spanish
and in there-expletive constructions in English.19
(29) Cue for structural Case checking in the presence of overt morphology:
[TP DP [T’ [+Agr]…]]
As for Chinese children, they need to find a different cue for the acquisition
of structural Case checking, one that allows for Case checking in the absence
of overt morphology, thus an extension of cue (28):
(30) Cue for structural Case checking in the absence of overt
morphology:20
[TP DP [T’ [−Agr]…]]
One question arises with respect to the setting of both verb inflection and
the structural Case-checking properties of individual languages. Why can’t one
assume the existence of a default setting for both of them? Let us see why a
default setting is not possible in the latter case, given the facts from ColBP
19
Notice as well that structural Case can optionally be realized morphologically, and that
should be also part of the cue-based system, although this issue is not relevant here.
20
One may consider here also the case of English gerunds, recalling that from a cue-based
perspective [Agr] in (28) corresponds to the specification of overt morphology. That is, [−Agr]
indicating lack of overt agreement morphology may or may not correlate with a full set of
φ-features (see chapters 1 and 2 regarding exactly the possibility of this contrast with English
gerunds).
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
148
with respect to overt subject licensing. In ColBP neither the cue in (29) nor the
one in (30) can be eliminated in favor of a default setting for the
Case-checking system. ColBP speakers identify the cue in (29) for Case
checking given the presence of overt morphology in finite domains. However,
when it comes to infinitives, children also learn that non-ECM subjects of
infinitives can occur in the absence of inflectional morphology, which
corresponds to the cue of (30). So, two settings that might be taken to be the
opposite settings of a single parameter (in a binary parameter system) can co-
exist in the same language. This is only possible because they are actually due
to different cues found in specific domains. The same reasoning explains why
both cues (27) and (28) are necessary to set the inflectional properties of EP,
especially with respect to the possibility of both an inflected and a
non−inflected infinitive, although in a parameter-based system those two cues
might be taken to be just the positive and negative setting of a parameter. On
one hand, parameter-based acquisition models have usually been understood as
all-or-nothing systems, in which a language can have only one setting extend-
ing to different contexts. On the other hand, cues are proposed to apply here on
a more local basis, and that allows divergent cues to be found in different
domains in the same grammar, providing a straightforward account for the data
at hand.21
Therefore, this constitutes a direct empirical argument in favor of
cue-based systems, given their more local application in the acquisition of
individual grammars, and an argument against parameter-based systems,
insofar as they have a more global character that does not allow for the co-
existence within the same grammar of the properties associated for instance
with both (29) and (30).
Let us return now to the puzzling effect presented at the beginning of this
section. The loss of overt inflection in ColBP infinitives didn’t lead to the
impossibility of overt subjects in that domain because new generations could
find in the input only the cue corresponding to lack of overt morphology (28).
That was possibly due to changes in the pronominal system mentioned in
section 5.2, which led to the elimination of all but one distinct overt form for
21
Raposo 1987, George and Kornfilt 1981, and Quicoli 1996 propose the existence of a Tense-
Agr parameter in order to handle the properties of inflected non-finite domains in different
languages. However, the possibility for non-finite domains to be specified as [±Tense] and
[±Agr] in the same language (see for instance chapters 2 and 3) creates further complications
for these approaches, given that there is no clear way to distinguish the range of non-finite
domains from finite domains in certain languages based only on these specifications,
depending on the number of different finite and non-finite domains one needs to distinguish.
SYNTACTIC CHANGES: THE DEVELOPMENT OF INFINITIVES 149
the infinitival inflection, the one marking 3rd
person plural.22
However, the
occurrence of overt non-ECM subjects remained very robust even in infinitive
domains, so that new generations were led to interpret the occurrence of overt
subjects in the input as manifesting the cue for structural Case marking in the
absence of overt verbal agreement (30). This situation yielded the puzzling
effect of the loss of inflected infinitives in ColBP, which did not block the
licensing of overt subjects in infinitives, although it prevented the new
uninflected infinitives of ColBP (which developed from the previously
inflected forms) from licensing null subject pro.23
6 Other changes in Brazilian Portuguese
6.1 Background: A point-of-view projection above TP
In this section I would like to relate the loss of inflected infinitives in Bra-
zilian Portuguese to other changes which now distinguish it from European
Portuguese (EP) and other Western Romance languages. As I argue below, I
take at least some of these changes to be intimately related, and show how they
can follow from a single structural change in the grammar of Brazilian
Portuguese. I build on previous work by Uriagereka (1995a, b), where a cluster
of properties found in certain Western Romance languages is associated with
the existence of a phrase projection associated with point-of-view, and dubbed
‘F projection’ by him. From a more general perspective, I use different dialects
22
In dialects that had a more radical loss of inflection, the loss occurred in all verbal domains,
turning the grammars into systems very similar to Chinese with respect to verbal agreement
morphology and Case checking.
23
As pointed out by Pilar Barbosa (p.c. 2001), null subject languages such as Catalan, Italian
and Spanish display infinitives with a lexical subject, which occurs in post verbal position,
whereas French and English, languages without null subjects, display non-finite constructions
with a lexical subject in preverbal position. Barbosa (1995) has argued that this contrast is
dependent on the Null Subject property. That would be further supported by ColBP, in which
the lexical subject appears in preverbal position in the infinitives discussed here, although
ColBP is in general losing its ability to license null referential subjects. However, despite the
existence of such a correlation, it is still necessary to provide an explanation for how the overt
subjects of infinitives are Case marked in these different languages. Further mechanisms for
Case marking may be at stake, and one of them may result in the verb-subject order found in
null-subject languages, a property that also needs to be acquired by children. Furthermore,
certain non-finite constructions carry other structural properties that distinguish them from the
infinitives discussed here, as shown for instance by the fact that the infinitives with overt
subjects that occur in French are restricted to dislocated adjoined positions and carry a
hypothetical interpretation (Martineau and Motapanyane 1996 and references therein). See also
chapter 3, section 8.2 for additional discussion about these phenomena.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
150
of Brazilian Portuguese as the testing ground for theories of language change
and variation.
According to Uriagereka (1995a), French, Spanish and EP/Galician are
paradigmatic examples of three diachronic and parametric settings for clitic
placement in Romance. He further suggests that spoken Brazilian Portuguese
behaves like contemporary French. I will provide below details as to how both
Standard Brazilian Portuguese and Colloquial Brazilian Portuguese fare with
respect to the proposal made by Uriagereka. He illustrates this in terms of clitic
placement:
(31) a. < clitic, V >
French, (spoken) Brazilian Portuguese?
b. < clitic, …V >
[+tense]
(Castilian) Spanish, Aragonese, Catalan…
c. < ∅, V, clitic>; < Governor, clitic, V>
EP, Galician, Leonese, most archaic dialects
The patterns above are illustrated in (32) to (34). French and Brazilian
Portuguese display proclisis in most contexts (32), Spanish displays proclisis
in tensed clauses (33), and EP reverts from enclisis to proclisis in the presence
of elements such as a complementizer in an embedded clause ((34), EP
examples from Raposo & Uriagereka 2005):
(32) a. Il m’a vu. (French)
He me.CL-has seen.
‘He saw me.’
b. Ele me viu. (Brazilian Portuguese).
He me.CL saw.
‘He saw me.’
(33) Nos escucha. (Spanish)
Us.CL listens-3SG.
‘(S/he) listens to us.’
SYNTACTIC CHANGES: THE DEVELOPMENT OF INFINITIVES 151
(34) a. (eu) vi-te ontem. ( * te vi). (EP)
(I) saw-you.CL yesterday ( * you.CL saw)
‘I saw you yesterday’
b. ela disse que te telefonou ontem (*telefonou -te)
she said that you.CL called-3SG yesterday (*called-3SG-you.CL)
‘She said that she called you yesterday.’
Uriagereka refers to an observation made by Wanner (1987), who argued
that the increase in the frequency of attachment of clitics to verbs in Vernacu-
lar Latin was caused by the leftward appearance of the verb in certain emphatic
clause types: imperatives, quotatives, presentatives, clauses with verb focus
and emotively marked utterances. Uriagereka (1995a: 163) then assumes that
in the vernacular Latin cases and in the EP cases of V-cl such as (34a), the verb
moves to a functional projection (FP) to the left of the clitic,24
given that FP
has a strong F head that attracts the verb. F stands for a category that encodes
point of view, thus is used to express matters of topic, focus, emphasis,
contrast and so on. Uriagereka argues that the archaic Romance verb has a
strong F feature in its morphology, which is checked against an active/strong F
position (for a recent approach to active features as the drive for movement,
consider e.g. the probe-goal analysis in Chomsky 2000, 2001, see chapter 1 for
some relevant details). Furthermore, he points out a cluster of properties (35)
usually found in the set of languages in (31c) (Uriagereka 1995a:(2)):
(35) Properties apparently associated with Pattern C (Uriagereka 1995a):
(i) Overt F(ocus) elements
(ii) Overt Focus movement
(iii) ‘Recomplementation’
(iv) ‘Sandwiched’ dislocations
(v) Overt expletives
(vi) Personal infinitives without Aux-to-Comp
(vii) Interpolation of elements between clitics and V
Uriagereka goes on to link these properties to the existence of an ac-
tive/strong F head, whose feature checking requirements may be satisfied if:
(36) a. an element moves to Spec FP;
b. an element incorporates to F;
c. F cliticizes upwards.
24
Uriagereka argues that that the clitic left-adjoins to F and then V adjoins to F [yielding the
order V-cl-(F)].
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
152
(36a, b) are represented by movement of a maximal (XP) or of a minimal
projection (a head). (36b) accounts for the order V-cl in EP (34a). (36c) should
account for the pattern XP-cl-V of (34b), but the details of this alternative are
much less clear,25
although they are not relevant for the analysis of the BP
phenomena discussed below.
Properties ((35i), (iii), (iv), (v) and (vii), which Uriagereka links to a strong
F head, do not hold in current BP. If these properties are indeed associated
with an active F projection, their loss in BP supports the view that certain
properties associated with this projection became inactive in the language. In
the next section I turn to Brazilian Portuguese and argue that the change in
some aspects of the grammar of BP is partly the result of the loss of properties
associated with the F projection.
For Uriagereka, F in EP/Galician is not only active/strong (e.g. attracting a
V to adjoin to it) but it also behaves as a clitic, which can relate to a host V to
its left after V-raising (34a) or by hopping onto the next head up (34b).
Uriagereka argues that French has no syntactically overt F, given that V
movement does not take place as it does in EP above. However, he also argues
that the licensing of clitics (particularly 3rd
person clitics, for him) occurs by
head-movement to the head of FP. However, given Uriagereka’s argument that
French has no syntactically overt F, his argument that 3rd
person clitics
left-adjoin to F needs to be revised, given the existence of a full clitic paradigm
in French, which includes third person clitics. If third person clitics can only be
licensed in F, as argued by Uriagereka, F should also be expected to be
available in French, contrary to what (32a) and similar French cases show.
To avoid arguing that certain syntactic projections (F in this case) are not
realized in certain languages, one alternative is to argue that F is not ac-
tive/strong in French, so it cannot trigger V-adjunction to its head, although it
can still license clitics. Another alternative, which I assume here, is to take the
clitic to adjoin to a functional projection (e.g. IP) lower than FP. This can
explain the different patterns in conjunction with the argument that V-to-F
takes place as in the case of EP/Galician. In one of the earliest approaches to
movement, Kayne 1991 argues that clitics invariably left-adjoin to a functional
head (IP), and the order V-cl in infinitives results from the V having moved
leftward past IP (see also Cardinaletti and Roberts 1991 on related issues; and
Martins 1994, Barbosa 2000, Raposo 2000 for different analyses of the EP
facts.). One argument that will be crucial in the next sections is the hypothesis
25
For example, if cliticization is a phonological (PF) operation, it can satisfy the feature
checking requirements of F only in case feature checking is required only by PF. Still,
important ordering considerations arise.
SYNTACTIC CHANGES: THE DEVELOPMENT OF INFINITIVES 153
that there may be V-movement (which may end up not being triggered in the
acquisition of a new grammar) to a position higher than the landing site of
clitics (presumably higher than IP), but not as high as C0
(given e.g. that
modern EP and late 18th
BP show V-movement but are not V2 or V-in-C
languages). The argument that F is active/strong in EP/Galician and triggers
for instance V movement above T provides an explanation for why
EP/Galician clitics cannot occur in initial position (contrary to BP, Spanish and
the other languages in (31).
6.2 Loss of inversion in BP
Besides the loss of inflected infinitives in ColBP with the effects analyzed
in section 5, another striking change in the grammar of BP is the loss of verb-
subject (VS) inversion across a variety of dialects in which it was possible in
the period including the 18th
and 19th
centuries. First, Morais 1993:284-5
shows that in the 18th
century VS order was still fairly common in declarative
sentences in BP (38%), although SV orders corresponded to between 62% and
72% of Morais’ different sets of data. By the late 19th
century VS order
decreased to about 10%, suggesting that V movement to a position to the left
of Spec, IP was no longer productive.
The loss of VS order in questions may represent the last effect of a loss of
V-movement to C. Old/Modern EP and 18th
BP (37a,b) usually displayed VS
order (100% in 18th
century BP direct questions), and a very low rate of SV
order in wh-questions, whereas the SV order took over by the early 20th
century in BP. Contemporary Colloquial BP (ColBP) no longer allows
inversion in wh-questions (37b,c). Furthermore, VS order in yes/no questions
(which also decreased in 18th
century EP) has now disappeared from BP
(Duarte 1992, Rossi 1993). The loss of inversion as in (37b,c) indicates clearly
the loss of V-to-C in BP.
(37) a. Que tem Deus de ver comigo? (Gil Vicente, 16th
c. EP)
What has God of see with-me.OBL
What does God have to do with me?
b. O que faz a Maria? (EP/19th
BP/*ColBP)
The-what does the Maria
‘What does Maria do?’
c. O que (que) a Maria faz? (ColBP)
The-what (that) the Maria does
‘What (does) Maria do?’
In addition, even StdBP, which still shows occurrences of inflected infini-
tives, rejects inversion with these cases (38) contrary to what Raposo (1987:
(6)) shows for EP, where inversion is either obligatory (with complements to
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
154
epistemic/declaratives (38)) or optional (with complements to factive verbs,
(39)). Galician requires inversion (40), as shown by Longa (1994) and
Uriagereka (1995a) (example from Mensching 2000:118):26
(38) *Eu penso/afirmo terem os deputados trabalhado pouco.
(BP)
I think/assert have-INF-3P the representatives worked little
‘I think/assert that the representatives worked little’.
(39) a. Eu lamento terem os deputados trabalhado pouco.
(EP/*BP)
I regret have-INF-3P the representatives worked little
‘I regret that the representatives worked little’.
b. Eu lamento os deputados terem trabalhado pouco
(EP/BP).
I regret the representatives have- INF -3P worked little
‘I regret that the representatives worked little’.
(40) …de iren os dous non mercarían nunca. (Galician)
…of to-go-3PL the two not would-trade never.
‘If both of them went, they would never do any trading.’
Based on such facts and on the placement of clitics discussed in the next
section, I argue that V-raising to F (or to any position above IP) was lost by the
early 20th
century in BP, distinguishing it from EP/Galician. Provided that head
movement proceeds locally, in V-to-C movement V would actually have to
move first to F, and then to C. Arguably, the loss of V-to-C was one of the
crucial triggers for the (subsequent) loss of V-to-F. If indeed it was the case
that V-to-F was possible earlier and it was absent from the grammars of BP
speakers after the late 19th
century, the prediction is that such an innovation
should have further effects in these grammars. This prediction is borne out
regarding the placement of clitics in BP, as discussed in the next section.
Uriagereka argues that the inflection found in inflected infinitives in West-
ern Iberian represents strong F morphology that needs to be checked by having
the verb raise to F. If so, Galician inflected infinitives carry strong F morphol-
ogy and EP inflected infinitives do as well. However, one needs to explain why
26
Longa (1994) argues that inflected infinitives are allowed only as complements to
declaratives, but Uriagereka (1995a: (13-14)) provides examples where they appear as
complements to extrañar ‘surprise’, an epistemic verb, where inversion is obligatory with
non-focused subjects.
SYNTACTIC CHANGES: THE DEVELOPMENT OF INFINITIVES 155
inversion is optional with factive verbs in EP. Raposo (1987) does not discuss
in detail the semantic or syntactic distinctions between (39a) and the corre-
sponding version without subject-verb inversion (39b).27
Galves (1991)
provides an alternative that is more consistent with the argument that the verb
in inflected infinitives has to raise to F. She argues against Raposo’s analysis
by proposing evidence that factive complements are weak islands, and then
analyzes them as CPs, in which the verb can land in C and the subject gets
Case either in [Spec, CP], yielding the order S-V, or in [Spec, TP], yielding V-
S. In the analysis I propose here, I keep the rationale behind Galves’s proposal
and take V to land instead in F by virtue of its carrying strong F morphology,
in line with what Uriagereka (1995a) takes to happen in Galician and in the
derivation of the crosslinguistic pattern for clitic placement in (31).
However, the situation in modern BP at first suggests that inversion has
been lost even in dialects with inflected infinitives, as indicated by (38) and
(39). Observe that although inflected infinitives in BP are rejected as comple-
ments to epistemic/declarative verbs such as pensar ‘think’/afirmar ‘claim’,
they are somewhat more acceptable with other verbs, such as aceitar ‘accept’,
permitir ‘permit’ and detestar ‘hate’, but not with inversion. When we turn to
ColBP we find the same pattern without any indication of inversion, with the
difference that inflected infinitives have in general been replaced by non-
inflected forms in most dialects, as discussed previously. I take loss of
inversion in these cases to be evidence that the infinitival verb no longer raises
to F. For ColBP the evidence for loss of inversion is consistent with the
argument made by Uriagereka (1995a) that languages with inflected infinitives
carry strong F morphology. Since ColBP lost both inversion and inflected
infinitives, the correlation made by Uriagereka seems to be maintained.
However, further evidence is necessary to establish a clear causal relation
between loss of inversion and loss of inflected infinitives in BP. One fact that
is apparent from the historical data is that the loss of inversion preceded the
loss of inflected infinitives in the language, although I don’t consider that
evidence to be detailed enough to fully support the causal argument.
In what follows I will discuss evidence that supports the argument that the
changes in (41a) are connected (in the previous sections I made connections
between the changes in (41b)). Although I believe further connections may
exist between the changes in (41a) and those in (41b) (such as between loss of
subject-verb inversion and loss of inflected infinitives), the evidence available
to me and which I discuss below does not allow me to make that argument.
27
He argue that factive complements in such cases should be analyzed as NPs that select an IP
represented by the infinitival clause, but it is not clear how he accounts for the two possible
internal word orders in these complements.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
156
(41) a. Changes associated to F position:
Shifts in clitic placement
Loss of V movement to F
Loss of inversion in infinitives
b. Weakening of the inflectional system Loss of inflected
infinitives
With respect to the current status of ColBP, the structural properties that
may have resulted from some of these changes (between which I am so far
unable to establish a clear causal relation based on the existing historical
evidence) seem to be related. Consider one connection. First, as I indicated
above, subject-verb inversion no longer exists as a widespread phenomenon in
different dialects of BP. Second, inflected morphology is absent from infini-
tives. Therefore, in Uriagereka’s terms, the features associated with F mor-
phology in infinitives would be weak, which is further supported by the fact
that infinitives do not raise overtly to F. In other words, in ColBP V does not
carry any features that need to be checked against F before Spell-Out.
In this respect, it is necessary to say something about the status of the now
uninflected infinitives found in Brazilian Portuguese, with respect to property
(35vi), the occurrence of personal infinitives without Aux-to-Comp, which
Uriagereka also associates with F.
As I showed in previous sections, given that BP infinitives allow overt
subjects without V-to-C, they show the same structure that personal infinitives
have in other Romance languages. However, there is no clear indication that
there is raising of V to F in such cases in ColBP, contrary to what is argued by
Uriagereka. Abstract Case assignment to the overt subject should proceed as I
showed in section 5, that is, in [Spec, TP] and without the need for overt
agreement morphology. This alternative is compatible with the view I advocate
here that BP verbs no longer raise to F.
Before I proceed with the discussion about the changes I relate to the weak-
ening of the F position in (41a), it is necessary to make a further comment
about a possible connection with the loss of inflection in (41b). Although I
don’t have clear evidence from historical data that indicates a connection
between loss of inflection and loss of inversion, we might take the weakening
and subsequent loss of inflection to have yielded the loss of V movement to
SYNTACTIC CHANGES: THE DEVELOPMENT OF INFINITIVES 157
F.28
This alternative is also consistent with Uriagereka’s (1995a) proposal, in
which the inflection found in infinitives is taken to be a direct indication of
strong F morphology that needs to be checked through V-raising, by PF.
However, one difficulty for this account is the fact that the loss of inversion in
StdBP may have preceded the loss of inflected infinitives, which still have a
limited occurrence in the language. Therefore, given the need for further
research about the history of the inflectional system of BP, I won’t make a
direct connection between both phenomena here. I argue for a weaker and
maybe less interesting alternative: on one hand, the cluster of changes
indicated in (41a) resulted from a general change in the properties of the F
projection. On the other hand, the general loss of inflection in the language was
the main cause of the loss of inflection in infinitives, which I discussed in
detail previously. I turn now to the connection among the changes in (41a).
6.3 Changes in verb and clitic placement
Consider the paradigm of clitic placement with infinitives in (42) to (44)
(data from Raposo and Uriagereka 2001:(51)-(53)). French systematically
displays proclisis, Spanish systematically displays enclisis, whereas EP reverts
from enclisis to proclisis in the presence of another element introducing the
embedded clause (e.g. negation (43c), or a preposition (44c)).
(42) a. J ’ai essayé [de l’acheter] (Fr.)
b. Yo intenté [ comprarlo] (Sp.)
c. Eu tentei [ comprá-lo] (EP)
‘I tried to buy it.’
(43) a. J ’ai essayé [de ne pas l’acheter] (Fr.)
b. Yo intenté [ no comprarlo] (Sp.)
c. Eu tentei [ não o comprar] (EP)
‘I tried not to buy it.’
(44) a. [Sans l’acheter], on ne peut pas vivre. (Fr.)
b. [Sin comprarlo] no se puede vivir. (Sp.)
c. [Sem o comprar] não se pode viver. (EP)
‘Without buying it, one cannot live.’
28
Overt inflection has in fact been taken to be part of the trigger for overt V movement to I
(Rohrbacher 1999), although the presence of V-to-I raising cannot be linked with rich
inflection in a simple one-to-one fashion, as discussed in detail by Bobaljik (2002).
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
158
Kayne (1991) argues that clitics invariably left-adjoin to a functional head
(T), and the order V-clitic in infinitives (as in Spanish in (42) to (44), but not in
French, and only partially in EP) results from the verb having moved leftward
past TP (cf. also Cardinaletti and Roberts 1991). Raposo and Uriagereka
(2001) take the parametric variation at hand to follow from the activation of
the functional head F above T. Uriagereka (1995b) analyzes third person
accusative clitics, but not first person and second person strong clitics, as
specific, referential determiners, and associates their placement with specificity
and point of view. French arguably does not have a syntactically overt F, so it
cannot trigger V movement. While both Spanish and EP do have an active F,
in Spanish F is an affix that must be attached to a stem, and presumably it
behaves as other affixes that check morphology in V, resulting in obligatory
verb-raising.29
In EP F is a clitic, which can relate to its host by V-raising,
yielding enclisis (42c), or by hopping onto the next head up, yielding proclisis
as in (43c) and (44c).
Turning to Brazilian Portuguese, one relevant factor is that it shows a higher
tendency for the use of proclisis (45) than EP does (46), as observed by
Teyssier (1976).30
The EP pattern (46) in fact matches the pattern that was
found in BP until at least the 18th
century.
(45) Ela me /te viu ontem. (*viu-me /*te ) (ColBP)
She me.CL/you.CL saw yesterday (*saw-me.CL/you.CL)
‘She saw me/you yesterday.’
(46) (Ela) viu-me /te ontem. (*me /*te viu). (EP/18th
c.
BP)
(She) saw-me.CL/you.CL yesterday (*me.CL/you.CL saw)
‘She saw me/you yesterday’
I argue that this distinction is the result of a general loss of verb raising to F
in Brazilian Portuguese, which eliminated the overt movement of the verb to
the position to the left of the clitic, eliminating the widespread use of enclisis
29
The mechanism that drives the movement of the verb in this case is unclear, though. Lasnik
(1995) argues that providing a host for an affix cannot drive syntactic movement, given for
instance the ungrammaticality of (i):
(i) John –ed not dance. → *John danced not.
30
The analysis in this section will focus on 1st
and 2nd
position clitics, since their placement
properties in BP do not extend to 3rd
person accusative clitics, which display a distinctive
behavior in other respects, as I discuss in section 6.4.
SYNTACTIC CHANGES: THE DEVELOPMENT OF INFINITIVES 159
in favor of proclisis in BP. This is supported by detailed historical data. Cyrino
(1993:167-8) obtained the results in (47), which indicate a systematic loss of
enclisis to gerunds and impersonal infinitives in BP:
(47) Percentage of clitics in enclitic position:31
Period Starting Impersonal Infinitives Gerunds
1700 100% 100%
1800 100% 100%
1850 86% 100%
1900 56% 25%
1950a 25% 66%
1950b 0% 0%
Cyrino (1993:168) also provides data indicating the complete loss of clitics
in enclisis to affirmative imperatives, indicating that clitics now only occur in
proclisis to the main verb in these constructions, contrary to what one finds in
EP. These facts provide a clear indication that V-raising to F was in general
lost by the second half of the 20th
century.
If we assume that a projection like FP was in most respects active in BP
until at least the 19th
century, it is possible to propose a coherent picture in
which the subsequent weakening and loss of its properties establishes a
connection between several changes that have overlapped over the same
period: the impoverishment of the inflectional system, the loss of V-raising
above T, the loss of inflected infinitives, the shift in the placement of clitics,
and some or all of the other properties listed in (35).
The hypothesis is that around the same time different properties associated
here with F changed in a similar pattern. First, consider the loss of enclisis with
infinitives, an indication that V-raising to F was lost for these forms. As shown
in the table in (47), enclisis with impersonal infinitives and gerunds dropped
from 86% and 100% respectively after 1850 to 56% and 25% after 1900.
Notice that these are the first significant drops in the percentage of these
patterns.32
By the 1950s, enclisis with different verb forms completely
31
Cyrino (1993: tables 2 and 3); the data are all from plays written by Brazilians. The data
corresponding to 1950a come from a 1955 play in which the language is more formal, thus the
lack of uniformity in the percentages.
32
Pagotto (1993: 200, table 6) indicates that for infinitives enclisis was 100% in XIX2 (19th
century, second half) and proclisis became 75% by the second half of the 20th
century. (He has
only 2 pieces of data for the first half of the 20th
century.) His data for gerunds show a majority
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
160
disappeared from BP. These numbers, in parallel with the results regarding the
loss of subject-verb inversion I discussed in section 6.2, give an indication that
at least the loss of inversion in non-finite domains and the shift in clitic
placement in complex verb phrases in (49) overlapped in terms of their
occurrence between the late 19th
century and early 20th
century. If the hypothe-
sis entertained here is on the right track, one should expect similar patterns of
change for other properties arguably associated with the activation of the FP
projection.
Changes in cliticization with finite verb forms in BP present similar patterns
to the one summarized above for non-finite verb forms, although there are
several complicating factors (see for instance by Cyrino and by Pagotto
(1993)).33
One of them is the fact that sentences like (48a) with proclisis to the
auxiliary/modal become in general ungrammatical in BP by the 20th
century,
whereas sentences like (48b) with proclisis to the main verb enter the language
in the early 19th
century (7.7% in Cyrino’s data) and become the general
pattern by the late 20th
century. (48a) indicates that even in 18th
century BP the
clitic didn’t behave as a mere affix that required the inflected verb to move to
its left, when there was another element that could host the clitic to the left, as
it is still case also for modern EP, as seen in (43c)-(44c).
(48) a. Maria me /te / lhe queria falar.
Maria CL.1P.DAT /CL.2P. DAT /CL.2-3P.DAT wanted speak-INF.
b. Maria queria me /te /lhe falar.
Maria wanted CL.1P.DAT /CL.2P. DAT /CL.2-3P.DAT speak- INF.
‘Maria wanted to speak to me/you/you-him-her.’
In order for the analysis involving loss of V-movement to F in BP proposed
here to prove accurate, it is necessary to explain how new generations exposed
to a grammar which generated the order in (49a) (corresponding to (48a)) until
at least the early 19th
century could have developed grammars in which the
order became that in (48b)-(49b),34
and how this new order can be accounted
for in synchronic terms. Let me consider the diachronic change.
of enclisis across all periods from the 16th
to the 20th
century, which was clearly influenced by
the formality of the sources he used − official documents and letters.
33
See Pires 2005 for additional discussion regarding the relation between the loss of verb
movement and different innovations in clitic placement in BP, and a proposal regarding
possible triggers for such changes.
34
Notice that the auxiliaries themselves were never clitics in the different dialects of
Portuguese considered here.
SYNTACTIC CHANGES: THE DEVELOPMENT OF INFINITIVES 161
(49) a. < X CL AUX V >
b. < (X) AUX CL V >
Judging from Cyrino’s (1993:169) data with respect to occurrence of a clitic
in a clause that had an affective element (either negation or a complementizer)
in the position X, the order shifted drastically from a percentage of 10% for
(49b) in the second half of the 19th
century, to 100% by the early 20th
century
(with a parallel shift from 90% of occurrence to complete loss, for the order in
(49a) between these two periods). Considering only root sentences, the general
percentage for the innovative order (49b) went from 17.6% in the second half
of the 19th
century to 52.9% in the early 20th
century.35
Considering the innovative pattern in (48b), represented in (49b) [(X) Aux
CL V], I argue that the clitic did not behave as an affix that required the
auxiliary verb to move to its left. The loss of V-to-F movement argued for
before must rule out the possibility that the new order (49b) was triggered by
movement of the inflected auxiliary verb to the left of the clitic (i.e. to F),
contrary to what was the case in earlier periods, when even main V-clitic order
still occurred due to V-to-F (46). The first reason for that is because by the
time (48b)-(49b) arises (19th
century), other effects associated with V move-
ment above T had been lost or were being lost (for example, V-CL in simple
clauses, subject-verb inversion and other properties given in (35)), and it would
be incoherent to claim that V-to-F was triggered only in this innovative pattern.
Thus, the new order [(X) Aux CL V] (49b), which became predominant from
the 19th
century onward, did not involve movement of the auxiliary to F, but
must be the result of further innovations in the grammar of BP speakers.
One hypothesis is that besides loss of V movement to F, clitic raising to a
position above (or in adjunction to) the inflected T was also lost (different from
French with auxiliaries avoir ‘have’ and être ‘be’, where the order is CL-Aux
V).36
As I argue below, this is directly supported by the fact that the order in
(50a) — [Negation CL Aux V], an instance of (49a) — disappeared in favor of
the order in (50b) — [Negation Aux CL V], an instance of (50b).
(50) a. < NEG CL AUX V > (late 18th
c., early 19th
c. BP; example (51a))
b. < NEG AUX CL V > (late 19th
c. BP on; example (51b)).
35
The cut by Pagotto (1993: 192) is by centuries, so less fine-grained, although the same
general shift can be clearly seen from the 19th
century to the 20th
century.
36
Under the alternative view that the clitic adjoins to F (Uriagereka 1995b), the loss of clitic
movement should also be dependent on the inactivation of F.
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
162
(51) a. Maria não me / te tinha convidado. (early 19th
c. BP; *ColBP)
Maria not CL.1P/ CL.2P had invited.
‘Maria hadn’t invited me/you.’
b. Maria não tinha me / te convidado. (ColBP)
Maria not had CL.1P/ CL.2P invited.
‘Maria hadn’t invited me/you.’
Given that the clitic can be licensed by elements such as negation (43c) and
prepositions (44c) in dialects with an active F such as EP and arguably 18th
century BP, the loss of V-to-F alone in the new 19th
century BP grammars
should not have affected patterns such as (49a) and (50a), given that they do
not require V-to-F even in grammars where V-to-F is possible, such as EP and
Galician grammars, because the element X (possibly negation) can serve as a
host for the clitic, blocking movement of the inflected verb. However, (49a)
and (50a) still disappeared completely by the early 20th
century, and gave rise
to (49b) and (50b) only. I argue that this was the result of a loss of clitic
movement to the left of the inflected T, and not the result of a loss of V
movement, since V-movement to the left of the clitic was not even at play
here.
Considering these further facts, one possibility is that clitics stopped adjoin-
ing to the left of the inflected auxiliary/modal and started adjoining to a
position to its right, but to the left of simple verbs in BP (a possibility that
indicates that there may be no overt movement of V to T in BP, but which may
also require inflected auxiliaries and main verbs to be distinct in terms of their
overt position—see Lasnik 1999 for a similar distinction in English and
French). In sum, other factors besides the loss of V-to-F should have prevented
the clitic from moving to a position higher than the auxiliary, yielding the
changes in (49) and (50).
6.4 Third person accusative clitics
Before I conclude, I want to briefly discuss the situation of 3rd
person accu-
sative clitics and why they were left out of the picture of clitic placement shift
in (49)-(50). There are two complicating factors about the behavior of
accusative clitics in BP that distinguish them from strong clitics after the major
changes I discuss started in the 19th
century. First, the orders in (49b)-(50b)
never extended to them. 3P accusative clitics either started being realized to the
right of the infinitive verb as in (52a) or remained to the left of the inflected
verb as in (51a) (Galves 2001, Pagotto 1993).
Standard BP differs from EP in this respect, in that it displays a pattern
similar to the one observed for Spanish, with systematic enclisis in the case of
uninflected infinitives (52).
SYNTACTIC CHANGES: THE DEVELOPMENT OF INFINITIVES 163
(52) a. Eu tentei [(não) comprá-lo] (StdBP)
I tried not buy.INF-it.CL
a’. *Eu tentei [(não) (l)o comprar]
* I tried not it.CL buy.INF
‘I tried (not) to buy it.’
b. [Sem comprá-lo ] não se pode viver.
Without buy.INF-it.CL not self can live
b’ *[Sem o comprar] não se pode viver.
Without it.CL buy.INF not self can live
‘Without buying it, one cannot live.’
Second, the patterns of change applying to these clitics indicate that their
occurrence decreased much faster than 1st
person clitics.37
In Cyrino’s data
(1993: table 10), they reduce from 48% of occurrences in 1891 to 4% in 1973.
Although these factors may be taken to support the distinction made by
Uriagereka between the way weak and strong clitics are licensed, it is likely
that further independent factors affected the pattern of change that took place
with 3P accusative clitics.38
Assuming then that the changes in clitic placement discussed above relate to
the fact that similarly to verbs, clitics also stopped raising up to F, one needs to
explain why that change was allowed by new grammars and what the new
position of the clitics was. About the latter, one possibility is that (strong)
clitics started being adjoined to TP (as it has been proposed for Italian and
French by Kayne 1989, 1991) in cases such as (45), or as low as the vP, given
cases such as (52).39
the properties of strong clitics are not incompatible with
their being realized outside F (as also supported by Uriagereka’s (1995a)
proposal). For him, it is only weak accusative clitics of the Romance type that
have certain requirements that impose on them the need to move to F, pre-
sumably because of their defectiveness in person features. There is apparently
one problem in enforcing this requirement, though. Whereas Uriagereka
37
2P and 3P dative clitics also show a faster decrease in use, although that is related to changes
in the pronominal system that did not affect 1P and 3Paccusative clitics directly.
38
Nunes (1993) explores the possibility that phonological factors were responsible for the
elimination of 3rd
person accusative clitics from the grammar, whereas Cyrino (1997) explores
in detail the possibility that their loss is related to the rise of null objects in BP.
39
In an intermediate stage between (49a) and (49b) clitics ‘affixed’ to the right the auxiliary
verb. That possibility disappeared in BP, whereas it remains in EP:
(i) Maria queria-me /te /lhe falar.
Maria wanted-CL.1SG/CL.2SG /CL.2/3.SG.DAT speak-INF.
‘Maria wanted to speak to me/you/you-him-her.’
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
164
(1995b: 116) assumes that French clitics do not raise to F (because F is
inactive in French), French still has 3rd
person accusative clitics that occur in
proclisis to both finite (32) and non-finite verbs (42). Given the picture that I
have tried to argue for, one alternative is that it is only in the presence of an
active F projection that (3rd
person accusative) clitics are forced to raise to F,
but this does not eliminate the possibility that 3rd
person clitics are licensed by
other mechanisms (also occurring in different positions) in different grammars,
and this may be what is at play in the case of French and modern BP.
I haven’t said anything about which modification in the characteristics of
the primary linguistic data triggered the larger set of changes I associate with
F, and which apparently started before the simplification of the inflectional
system I referred to in previous sections.40
One possibility is that this modifica-
tion came from the clitic system. The data provided by Cyrino (1997) show at
least one innovation in the clitic system that took place as early as the 18th
century. The 3P neuter accusative clitic (o ‘it’, used with a sentential antece-
dent) dropped from the language in the 19th
century, and was replaced by
ellipsis. Interestingly, its decrease in use started as early as the 17th
century.
However, two factors suggest that this change alone may not have been enough
to trigger the major shift in the system that started in the mid-19th
century.
First, the loss of the neuter clitic was more gradual than the other changes
discussed in detail here, as shown by the data from Cyrino (1997:251), where it
drops from 79.4% of occurrences in the 17th
century (as compared to ellipsis)
to 54.4% in the 18th
century.41
Second, this clitic usually does not account for
more than 10% of all clitics between the 16th
and the 19th
century (Cyrino
1993: table 10). Therefore, although there is at least one indication that
changes in the clitic system may have been the trigger for the major shift in the
grammar of BP starting in the mid-19th
century, further support for this claim is
still necessary.
7 Conclusion
In this chapter I analyzed the rise and loss of inflected infinitives in dialects
of Portuguese and provided an account for them in terms of a cue-based theory
40
I know of no systematic studies about the history of the inflectional system in 18th
/19th
-
century BP. One further complicating factor is that most of the changes in the inflectional
system in modern BP are not directly detectable from the written language, which still reflects
the properties of StdBP in this respect.
41
The 19th
-century 12.9% rate of occurrence provided by Cyrino is not very informative,
because it is not broken up into shorter periods, and may just reflect a higher weight for the
loss of 3rd
person accusative clitics in general, which accelerated in the late 19th
century.
SYNTACTIC CHANGES: THE DEVELOPMENT OF INFINITIVES 165
of acquisition, in which grammar changes are determined by the identification
of cues determined by universal grammar (UG) and robustly attested in the
primary linguistic data. First, the theory I explore here provides a novel
argument for the hypothesis that inflected infinitives in Portuguese developed
from a finite subjunctive verb form, and could not have been formed on the
basis of the non-inflected infinitive. Second, I describe the effects of the loss of
inflected infinitives in Brazilian Portuguese with respect to the licensing of null
and overt subjects. Treating obligatory control as the result of movement, I
explain why the loss of inflectional morphology in Brazilian Portuguese
infinitives blocked pro as their subject. By linking overt morphology and the
licensing of overt subjects to independent cues provided by UG, I account for
the fact that the loss of the infinitive inflection did not eliminate the possibility
of overt non-ECM subjects in infinitives in Colloquial Brazilian Portuguese.
Finally, this chapter analyzes other innovations that took place in the grammars
of BP speakers mostly between the mid-19th
and early 20th
century, especially
regarding the position of verbs and clitic placement, and proposes an analysis
of how these and other changes investigated here are interconnected.
CONCLUSION
In the introduction to this book I presented an overview of the different top-
ics and goals I had in mind in the course of this project. In general, I hope to
have contributed to a more precise understanding of the properties of non-finite
domains in human language, by focusing on the investigation of non-finite
domains that have received less attention in the literature on Case and control.
I restricted my attention to structures in English and in Portuguese that can
occur in two different ways: they can allow either an overt or a null subject in
their subject position, or they do not allow overt embedded subjects and are
restricted in their tense and aspectual properties. I proposed analyses for these
constructions which account for the empirical facts I investigated and are in
line with the demands of some of the current research in syntactic theory.
Finally, I addressed some of the phenomena in question from the perspective
of language change, and tried to explain them by taking into account certain
requirements that a theory of language change needs to satisfy with respect to
acquisition and the properties of universal grammar.
There are a few open questions that I did not address. I am aware of some of
them, and I mention the ones I take to be more relevant below.
My attempt in dealing with English gerunds was to provide a theoretical
characterization of them that was coherent with analyses of infinitival con-
structions. The fact that English gerunds carry a Case feature gave me
significant mileage in accounting for the special behavior of these construc-
tions. Under minimalist expectations, one could also consider a theory that
dispenses with the need to rely on that property, provided it did not include
additional stipulations. Furthermore, I explored only briefly the mechanisms
that would explain why overt subjects of gerunds do not need to receive nomi-
native Case. As I pointed out in chapter 1, any explanation of that fact that
relies on the idea of default Case has to provide appropriate mechanisms to
prevent the risk of overgeneration that such an account brings into the gram-
mar. Also, more needs to be said about the precise feature composition of the
head of defective gerunds. I suspect that the latter two phenomena are actually
related, and a more detailed theory of feature defectiveness may provide other
answers to some of these questions.
With respect to control phenomena, I provided two case studies that present
specific problems for tense/event binding theories of control. However, I did
not address how selectional requirements should be handled in a movement
theory of control, in case they are relevant to distinguish raising from control.
After all one may need to rely on the existence of c-selection, although its
CONCLUSION 167
effects can be limited in different ways by the application of other principles of
the grammar, as it has been argued in some of the relevant literature.
Finally, in my investigation of the diachronic aspects of the development of
infinitives in Portuguese I argued how the loss and appearance of agreement
morphology in non-finite domains imposes certain constraints on how theories
of acquisition and change should be specified. Conversely, the need for theo-
ries of this type limits the range of explanations one can provide for changes in
the grammar. Additionally, I explored possible connections between the loss of
inflected infinitives and other major changes in the grammar of Brazilian
Portuguese. I focused on two arguments. First, the simplification of the inflec-
tional system is at the source of the loss of inflected infinitives. Second, I argue
that a set of major changes in the grammar of 19th
century Brazilian Portuguese
was the reflex of one single structural change in a functional projection in the
left periphery of the clause. Further research is necessary to establish whether
the changes in the inflectional system and the general structural changes I
proposed mutually influenced each other in significant ways.
REFERENCES
Abney, S. 1987. The English Noun Phrase in its Sentential Aspect. PhD
dissertation, MIT.
Abusch, D. 2004. On the temporal composition of infinitives. In The Syntax of
Time, J. Guéron and J. Lecarme (eds), 27-53. Cambridge MA: The MIT
Press.
Akmajian, A. 1977. The complement structure of perception verbs in an
autonomous syntax framework. In Formal Syntax, P.W. Culicover, T.
Wasow and A. Akmajian (eds). New York NY: Academic Press.
Alexiadou, A. and Anagnostopoulou, A. 1998. Parameterizing Agr: Word
order, V-movement and EPP-checking. Natural Language and Linguistic
Theory 16: 491-531.
Ambar, M.M. 1994. Aux-to-Comp and lexical restrictions on verb movement.
In Paths towards Universal Grammar: Studies in honor of Richard S.
Kayne, G. Cinque et al.(eds). Washington DC: Georgetown University
Press.
Baker, M. 1985. Syntactic affixation and English gerunds. In Proceedings of
The West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics 4, Stanford Linguistics
Association, Stanford CA.
Barbosa, M.P. 1995. Null Subjects. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Barbosa, M.P. 2000. Clitics: A window into the null subject property. In Costa,
(ed.).
Barrie, M. 2004. Moving towards partial control. In Proceedings of the 34th
Meeting of the Northeast Linguistics Society, K. Moulton and M. Wolf
(eds), 133-46.
Battistella, E. 1983. Gerunds and subject case marking. In Proceedings of The
West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics 2. Stanford Linguistics
Association, Stanford CA.
Bobaljik, J. 2002. Realizing Germanic inflection: Why morphology does not
drive syntax. Journal of Comparative Germanic Linguistics 6:129–67.
Bobaljik, J.D. and Brown, S. 1997. Interarboreal operations: Head movement
and the extension requirement. Linguistic Inquiry 28: 345-56.
Boeckx, C. and Hornstein, N. 2004. Movement under control. Linguistic
Inquiry 35: 431-52.
Borer, H. 1990. V+ing: It walks like an adjective, it talks like an adjective.
Linguistic Inquiry 21: 95-103.
Borgonovo, C. 1994. The Parametric Syntax of Gerunds. PhD dissertation,
Brandeis University.
Bošković, Ž. 1994. D-structure, theta criterion, and movement into theta
positions. Linguistic Analysis 24: 247-86.
Bošković, Ž. 1995. Principles of Economy in Nonfinite Complementation.
PhD dissertation, University of Connecticut, Storrs.
REFERENCES 169
Bošković, Ž. 1997. The Syntax of Nonfinite Complementation: An economy
approach. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Bošković, Ž. 2002. A-movement and the EPP. Syntax 5: 167-218.
Bošković, Ž. and D. Takahashi. 1998. Scrambling and last resort. Linguistic
Inquiry 29: 347-66.
Bresnan, J. 1972. Theory of Complementation in English Syntax. PhD
dissertation, MIT.
Bourciez, E. 1946. Éléments de linguistique romane. Paris: Klincksieck.
Cardinaletti, A. and Roberts, I. 1991. Clause structure and X-second. Ms.,
University of Venice and University of Geneva. (Revised version: 2003. In
The Cartography of Syntactic Structures, vol. 1: Functional Structure in
DP and IP, G. Cinque (ed.) 123-166. Oxford: Oxford University Press.)
Castillo, J. C., Drury, J. and Grohmann, K.K. 1999. Merge over move and the
extended projection principle. University of Maryland Working Papers in
Linguistics 8: 66-103.
Chierchia, G. 1982. Nominalization and Montague grammar: A semantics
without types for natural languages. Linguistics and Philosophy 5: 303-54.
Chierchia, G. 1984. Topics in the Syntax and Semantics of Infinitives and
Gerunds. PhD dissertation, University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
Chomsky, N. 1970. Remarks on nominalization. In Readings in English
Transformational Grammar, R. Jacobs and P. Rosenbaum (eds), 184-221.
Waltham MA: Ginn Press.
Chomsky, N. 1981. Lectures on Government and Binding. Dordrecht: Foris.
Chomsky, N. 1982. Some Concepts and Consequences of the Theory of
Government and Binding. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. 1986. Knowledge of Language. New York NY: Praeger.
Chomsky, N. 1993. A minimalist program for linguistic theory. In Hale and
Keyser (eds).
Chomsky, N. 1995a. The Minimalist Program. Cambridge MA: The MIT
Press.
Chomsky, N. 1995b. Bare phrase structure. In Government and Binding
Theory and the Minimalist Program, G. Webelhuth (ed.), 383-439. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Chomsky, N. 2000. Minimalist inquiries: The framework. In Step by Step:
Essays on minimalist syntax in honor of Howard Lasnik, R. Martin, D.
Michaels, and J. Uriagereka (eds), 89-156. Cambridge MA: The MIT
Press.
Chomsky, N. 2001. Derivation by phase. In Ken Hale: A life in language, M.
Kenstowicz (ed.), 1-52. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. and Lasnik, H. 1977. Filters and control. Linguistic Inquiry 8:
425-504.
REFERENCES
170
Chomsky, N. and Lasnik, H. 1993. Principles and parameters theory. In
Chomsky 1995a.
Cinque, G. 1999. Adverbs and Functional Heads: A cross-linguistic
perspective. New York NY: Oxford University Press.
Collins, C. 2001. Book review: Ž. Bošković, The Syntax of Nonfinite
Complementation: An economy approach. Lingua 110: 127-33.
Comorovsky, I. 1985. Control and obviation in Romanian. In Proceedings of
the Eastern States Conference on Linguistics, C. Soonja, D. Devitt, W.
Janis, T. McCoy and Z.-S. Zhang (eds), 47-56. Columbus OH: Ohio State
University.
Costa, J. 2000. Portuguese Syntax: New comparative studies. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Culicover, P.W. and Jackendoff, R. 2001. Control is not movement. Linguistic
Inquiry 32: 493-512.
Cyrino, S.M.L. 1993. Observações sobre a mudança diacrônica no português
do Brasil: Objeto nulo e clíticos. In Roberts and Kato (eds).
Cyrino, S.M.L. 1997. O objeto nulo no português do Brasil: Um estudo
sintático-diacrônico. Londrina, Santa Catarina: Editora UEL.
Davies, W. D. and Dubinsky, S. 2004. The Grammar of Raising and Control:
A course in syntactic argumentation. Malden MA: Blackwell.
Dobrovie-Sorin, C. 1994. The Syntax of Romanian. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Dobrovie-Sorin, C. 2001. Head-to-head merge in Balkan subjunctives and
locality. In Rivero and Ralli (eds), 44–73.
Dresher, B.E. 1999. Charting the learning path: Cues to parameter setting.
Linguistic Inquiry 30: 27-67.
Duarte, M.E. 1992. A perda da ordem V(erbo) S(ujeito) em interrogativas-qu
no português do Brasil. DELTA 8: 37-52 (Special issue).
Enç, M. 1990. On the absence of the present tense morpheme in English. Ms.,
University of Wisconsin, Madison.
Epstein, S.D. and Hornstein, N. (eds). 1999. Working Minimalism. Cambridge
MA: The MIT Press.
Epstein, S.D. and Seely, T.D. 2002. Rule applications as cycles in a level free-
system. In Derivation and explanation in the Minimalist Program, S.D.
Epstein and T.D. Seely (eds). Oxford: Blackwell.
Epstein, S.D. and T.D. Seely. 2006. Derivations in Minimalism: Exploring the
elimination of A-chains and the EPP. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Epstein, S.D., Pires, A. and Seely, T.D. 2005. EPP in T: More controversial
subjects. Syntax 8: 165-80.
Epstein, S.D., Groat, E., Kawashima, R. and Kitahara, H. 1998. A Derivational
Approach to Syntactic Relations. New York NY: Oxford University Press.
Ernout, A. and Thomas. F. 1953. Syntaxe Latine (2nd ed.). Paris: Klincksieck.
REFERENCES 171
Farkas, D.F. 1985. Obligatorily controlled subjects in Romanian. In
Proceedings of the 21st Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society, W.H.
Eilfort, P.D. Kroeber and K.L. Peterson (eds), 90–100. Chicago IL:
University of Chicago.
Felix, S. 1989. Finite infinitives in Modern Greek. In Syntactic Phrase
Structure Phenomena in Noun Phrases and Sentences, C. Bhatt, E. Lobel
and C. Schmidt (eds), 113-31. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Fodor, J. 1975. The Language of Thought. New York NY: Thomas Y. Crowell.
Fodor, J.D. 1998. Unambiguous triggers. Linguistic Inquiry 29: 1-36.
Galves, C. 1991. Inflected infinitive and Agr licensing. Ms. University of
Campinas.
Galves, C. 2001. Ensaios sobre as gramáticas do português. Campinas, São
Paulo: Editora da Unicamp.
George, L. and Kornfilt, J. 1981. Finiteness and boundedness in Turkish. In
Binding and Filtering, F. Heny (eds). London: Croom Helm.
Grimshaw, J. 2000. Locality and extended projection. In Lexical Specification
and Insertion, P. Coopmans, M. Everaert and J. Grimshaw (eds).
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Grohmann, K.K., Castillo, J.C and Drury, J. 2000. No more EPP. In
Proceedings of the Nineteenth West Coast Conference on Formal
Linguistics, R. Billerey and B.D. Lillehaugen (eds), 153-66. Somerville
MA: Cascadilla Press.
Hale, K. and Keyser, J. 1993a. On argument structure and the lexical
expression of syntactic relations. In Hale and Keyser (eds).
Hale, K. and Keyser, S.J. 1993b. The View from Building 20: Essays in honor
of Sylvain Bromberger. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Hale, M. 1998. Diachronic syntax. Syntax 1: 1-18.
Harris, M. 1978. The Evolution of French Syntax: A comparative approach.
London: Longman.
Henry, A. 1992. Infinitives in a for-to dialect. Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory 10: 279-301.
Higginbotham, J. 1992. Reference and control. In Larson et al. (eds).
Holmberg, A. 2005. Is there a little pro: Evidence from Finnish. Linguistic
Inquiry 36(4): 533–64.
Horn, L. 1975. On the nonsentential nature of the POSS-ING construction.
Linguistic Analysis 1(4): 333-87.
Hornstein, N. 1999. Movement and control. Linguistic Inquiry 30: 69-96.
Hornstein, N. 2001. Move! A minimalist theory of construal. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Hornstein, N. 2003. On control. In Minimalist Syntax, R. Hendrick (ed.), 6-81.
Malden MA: Blackwell.
REFERENCES
172
Hornstein, N. and San Martin, I. 2000. Obviation as anti-control. Paper
presented at GLOW 23, Main Session − Derivations and Representations.
University of the Basque Country, Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain.
Huang, C.-T. J. 1984. On the distribution and reference of empty pronouns.
Linguistic Inquiry 15: 531-74.
Iatridou, S. 1988/1993. On nominative case assignment and a few related
things. MIT Working Papers in Linguistics 19: 175-98.
Jackendoff, R. 1983. Semantics and Cognition. Cambridge MA: The MIT
Press.
Jackendoff, R. 2002. Foundations of Language. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Jackendoff, R. and Culicover, P.W. 2003. The semantic basis of control in
English. Language 79: 517-56.
Jaeggli, O. 1986. Arbitrary plural pronominals. Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory 4: 43-76.
Jaeggli, O. and Safir, K.J. 1989. The Null Subject Parameter. Dordrecht:
Kluwer.
Johnson, K. 1988. Clausal gerunds, the ECP, and government. Linguistic
Inquiry 19(4): 583-609.
Jones, M.A. 1992. Infinitives with specified subjects in Sardinian. In
Theoretical Analyses in Romance Linguistics, C. Laufer and T.A. Morgan
(eds), 295-309. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Kaiser, L. 1999. The Morphosyntax of Clausal Nominalization Constructions.
PhD dissertation, University of Yale, New Haven.
Kapetangianni, K. and Seely, T.D. 2003. Subjunctives in Modern Greek:
Explanation by deduction; Agreement by degrees. Paper presented at
NASC 1 – North American Syntax Conference. Concordia University,
Montreal.
Kapetangianni, K. and Seely, T.D. 2006. Control in Modern Greek: It’s
another good move. Ms. University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, and Eastern
Michigan University.
Kayne, R. 1981. On certain differences between French and English. Linguistic
Inquiry 12: 349-372.
Kayne, R. 1989. Null subject and clitic climbing. In The Null Subject
Parameter, O. Jaeggli and K. Safir (eds), 239-61. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Kayne, R. 1991. Romance clitics, verb movement and PRO. Linguistic Inquiry
22: 647-86.
Kayne, R. 1994. The Antisymmetry of Syntax. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Kempchinsky, P. M. 1986. Romance Subjunctive Clauses and Logical Form.
PhD dissertation, UCLA.
Kenstowicz, M. (ed.). 2001. Ken Hale: A life in language. Cambridge MA:
The MIT Press.
REFERENCES 173
Kiguchi, H. 2002. PRO gate. Ms., University of Maryland, College Park.
Krapova, I. 2001. Subjunctives in Bulgarian and Modern Greek. In Rivero and
Ralli (eds), 105–26.
Krapova, I. and Petkov, V. 1999. Subjunctive complements, null subjects and
case checking in Bulgarian. In Proceedings of the 7th Meeting of Formal
Approaches to Slavic Linguistics, D. Katarzyna, H. Coats, and C.M.
Vakareliyska (eds), 267–85. Michigan Slavic Publications, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor.
Landau, I. 2003. Movement out of control. Linguistic Inquiry 34: 471-98.
Landau, I. 2004. The scale of finiteness and the calculus of control. Natural
Language and Linguistic Theory 22: 811-77.
Larson, R., Iatridou, S., Lahiri, U. and Higginbotham, J. (eds). 1992. Control
and grammar. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Lasnik, H. 1995. Last resort and attract F. In Proceedings of FLSM 6, 62-81.
Indiana University Linguistics Club, Bloomington IN.
Lasnik, H. 1999. Minimalist Analysis. Malden, MA: Blackwell.
Lasnik, H. 2001a. A note on the EPP. Linguistic Inquiry 32: 356-361.
Lasnik, H. 2001b. Subjects, objects, and the EPP. In Objects and Other
Subjects, W. Davies and S. Dubinsky (eds). Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Lebeaux, D. 1985. Locality and anaphoric binding. The Linguistic Review 4:
343-63.
Ledgeway, A. 1998. Variation in the Romance infinitive: The case of the
Southern Calabrian inflected infinitive. Transactions of the Philological
Society 96: 1-61.
Lemle, M. and Naro, A. 1977. Syntactic diffusion. Ciência e Cultura 29(3):
259-68.
Lightfoot, D.W. 1989. The child’s trigger experience: Degree-0 learnability.
Behavioral and Brain Sciences 12: 321-375.
Lightfoot, D.W. 1994. Degree-0 learnability. In Syntactic Theory and First
Language Acquisition: Cross-linguistic perspectives, Vol. 2: Binding,
dependencies and learnability, B. Lust, G. Hermon and J. Kornfilt (eds),
453-72. Hillsdale NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Lightfoot, D. W. 1999. The Development of Language: Acquisition, change
and evolution. Oxford: Blackwell.
Lobo, M.G. 2001. On gerund clauses of Portuguese dialects. In El Verbo.
Entre el Léxico y la Gramática, A. Veiga, V.M. Longa and J. Anderson
(eds), 107-18. Lugo: Tris Tram.
Longa, V. M. 1994. The Galician inflected infinitive and the theory of UG.
Catalan Working Papers in Linguistics (CatWPL) 4(1):23-44.
Loporcaro, M. 1986. L’infinito coniugato nell’Italia centro-meridionale:
Ipotesi genetica e ricostruzione storica. L’Italia Dialettale 49: 173-240.
REFERENCES
174
Manzini, M.R. and Roussou, A. 2000. A minimalist theory of A-movement
and control. Lingua 110: 409-47.
Martin, R. 1996. A Minimalist Theory of PRO and Control. PhD dissertation,
University of Connecticut, Storrs.
Martin, R. 1999. Case, the extended projection principle, and minimalism. In
Epstein and Hornstein (eds).
Martin, R. 2001. Null case and the distribution of PRO. Linguistic Inquiry
32(1): 141-66.
Martineau, F. and Motapanyane, V. 1996. Hypothetical infinitives and
crosslinguistic variations in continental and Quebec French. In
Microparametric Syntax and Dialect Variation, J.R. Black and V.
Motapanyane (eds). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Martins, A. M. 1994. Clíticos na história do português. PhD dissertation,
University of Lisbon.
Martins, A. M. 1999. On the origin of Portuguese inflected infinitive. In
Historical Linguistics 1999: Selected papers from the 14th
International
Conference on Historical Linguistics, L. Brinton (ed.). Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Martins, M.J.D. 1954. Etnografia, linguagem e folclore de uma pequena região
da Beira Beixa (Póvoa de Atalaia, Alcongosta, Tinalhas e Sobral do
Campo). Dissertation of Licenciatura, University of Lisbon.
Maurer Jr., T.H. 1968. O Infinitivo flexionado Português: Estudo histórico-
descritivo. São Paulo: Companhia Editora Nacional.
Mensching, G. 2000. Infinitive Constructions with Specified Subjects. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Meyer-Lübke, W. 1890. Grammatik der Romanischen Sprachen. Leipzig:
Fues’s Verlag.
Miller, D.G. 2002. Nonfinite Structures in Theory and Change. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Miller, D.G. 2003. Where do conjugated infinitives come from? Diachronica
20(1): 45–81.
Milsark, G.L. 1988. Singl-ing. Linguistic Inquiry 19(4): 611-34.
Monahan, P. 2003. Backward object control in Korean. Proceedings of the
West Coast Formal Conference in Linguistics 22: 101-14.
Montalbetti, M. 1984. Binding: On the interpretation of pronouns. PhD
dissertation, MIT.
Morais, M.A.T. 1993. Aspectos diacrônicos do movimento do verbo, estrutura
da frase e caso nominativo no português do Brasil. In Roberts and Kato
(eds).
Munn, A. 1991. Binding in gerunds and the leftness condition. In Papers from
the Third Student Conference in Linguistics [MIT Working Papers in
Linguistics 14], J.D. Bobaljik and T. Bures (eds). Cambridge, MA.
REFERENCES 175
Nunes, J. 1993. Direção de cliticização, objeto nulo e pronome tônico na
posição de objeto em português brasileiro. In Roberts and Kato (eds).
Nunes, J. 1995. The Copy theory of movement and linearization of chains in
the Minimalist Program. Ph.D. dissertation, University of Maryland,
College Park.
Nunes, J. 2004. Linearization of Chains and Sideward Movement. Cambridge
MA: The MIT Press.
O’Neil, J. 1995. Out of control. In Proceedings of NELS 25: 361-71. GLSA,
University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
Ortiz de Urbina, J. 1989. Some Parameters in the Grammar of Basque.
Dordrecht: Foris.
Pagotto, E.G. 1993. Clíticos, mudança e seleção natural. In Roberts and Kato
(eds).
Pesetsky, D. 1991. Zero syntax. Part II. Ms., MIT.
Pesetsky, D. and Torrego, E. 2001. T-to-C movement: Causes and
consequences. In Kenstowicz (ed.), 355-426.
Philippaki-Warburton, I. 1987. The theory of empty categories and the Pro-
drop parameter in Modern Greek. Journal of Linguistics 23: 289–318.
Philippaki-Warburton, I. and Catsimali, G. 1999. On control in Greek. In
Studies in Greek Syntax, A. Alexiadou, G.C. Horrocks, and M. Stavrou
(eds), 153–68. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Piel, J.M. 1944. A Flexão verbal do português: Estudo de morfologia histórica.
Biblos 20: 359-384.
Piera, C. 1987. Sobre la estructura de las cláusulas de infinitivo. In Sintaxis de
las lenguas románicas, V. Demonte and M. Lagunilla (eds). Madrid:
Ediciones El Arquero.
Pires, A. 1999. A minimalist approach to clausal gerunds. Ms. University of
Maryland.
Pires, A. 2000. Clausal gerunds in minimalism. Paper presented at GLOW/
Main Session: Derivations and Representations, University of the Basque
Country, Vitoria, Spain, April 2000.
Pires, A. 2001a. The Syntax of Gerunds and Infinitives: Subjects, case and
control. PhD dissertation, University of Maryland, College Park.
Pires, A. 2001b. PRO, movement and binding in Portuguese. In Romance
Syntax, Semantics and their L2 Acquisition. Selected papers from the 30th
Linguistic Symposium on Romance Languages, J. Camps and C. Wiltshire
(eds). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Pires, A. 2001c. Clausal and TP–defective gerunds: Control without tense. In
Proceedings of NELS 31, GLSA, University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
Pires, A. 2001d. Can phases replace binding domains? Degree–0 learnability
and minimalism. Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the Linguistic
Society of America, Washington DC.
REFERENCES
176
Pires, A. 2002. Cue-based change: Inflection and subjects in the history of
Portuguese infinitives. In Syntactic Effects of Morphological Change, D.
Lightfoot (ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Pires, A. 2005. Verb movement and clitics: Variation and change in
Portuguese. In Grammaticalization and Parametric Change, M. Batllori,
M.L. Hernanz, C. Picallo and F. Roca (eds), 48-59. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Polinsky, M. and Potsdam, E. 2002. Backward control. Linguistic Inquiry 33:
245-82.
Polinsky, M. and Potsdam, E. 2003. Control in Malagasy. Cornell Working
Papers in Linguistics 19: 173-87.
Pollock, J-Y. 1989. Verb movement, universal grammar and the structure of
IP. Linguistic Inquiry 20: 365-424.
Postal, P. 1974. On Raising. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Quicoli, A. C. 1996. Inflection and parametric variation: Portuguese vs.
Spanish. In Current Issues in Comparative Grammar, R. Freidin (ed.), 46-
80. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Raposo, E. 1987. Case theory and Infl-to-Comp: The inflected infinitive in
European Portuguese. Linguistic Inquiry 18: 85-109.
Raposo, E. 2000. Clitic positions and verb movement. In Costa (ed.).
Raposo, E. and Uriagereka, J. 2001. T. Ms., UCSB and University of
Maryland, College Park.
Raposo, E. and Uriagereka, J. 2005. Clitic placement and the FP projection in
European Portuguese. Ms., UCSB and University of Maryland, College
Park.
Reinhart, T. and Reuland, E. 1993. Reflexivity. Linguistic Inquiry 24: 657-720.
Reuland, E. 1983. Governing-ing. Linguistic Inquiry 14(1): 101-36.
Reuland, E. and Reinhart, T. 1995. Pronouns, anaphors and case. In Studies in
Comparative Germanic Syntax, H. Haider, S. Olsen and S. Vikner (eds),
241-68. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Ribeiro, I. 1995. A sintaxe da ordem no português arcaico: O efeito V2. PhD
dissertation, University of Campinas.
Rivero, M.-L. and A. Ralli (eds). 2001. Comparative Syntax of Balkan
Languages. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Rizzi, L. 1982. Issues in Italian syntax. Dordrecht: Foris.
Rizzi, L. 1986. Null objects in Italian and the theory of pro. Linguistic Inquiry
17: 501–57.
Rizzi, L. 1990. On the anaphor-agreement effect. Rivista di Linguistica 2: 27-
42.
Rizzi, L. 1997. The fine structure of the left periphery. In Elements of
grammar, L. Haegeman (ed.), 281-337. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
REFERENCES 177
Roberts, I. and Kato, M.A. 1993. Português brasileiro: Uma viagem
diacrônica. Homenagem a Fernando Tarallo. Campinas: Editora da
Unicamp.
Rochette, A. 1988. Semantic and Syntactic Aspects of Romance Sentential
Complementation. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Rodrigues, C. 2002. Loss of verbal morphology and the status of referential
null subjects in Brazilian Portuguese. In Syntactic Effects of Morphological
Change, D. Lightfoot (ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Rodrigues, C. 2004. Impoverished Morphology and A-Movement out of Case
Domains. PhD dissertation, University of Maryland, College Park.
Rodrigues, J. M. 1932. Sobre o uso do infinito impessoal e do pessoal em Os
Lusíadas. Boletim de Filologia 1(3-7):177-84.
Rohrbacher, B. 1999. Morphology-Driven Syntax: A theory of V to I raising
and pro-drop. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Rooryck, J. 2000. Configurations of Sentential Complementation: Perspectives
from Romance languages. London: Routledge.
Ross, J.R. 1972. Doubl-ing. Linguistic Inquiry 3: 61-86.
Rossi, M.A.L. 1993. Estudo diacrônico sobre as interrogativas do português do
Brasil. In Roberts and Kato (eds).
Roussou, A. 2001. Control and raising in and out of subjunctive complements.
In Rivero and Ralli (eds), 74–104.
Rouveret, A. 1979. Sur la notion de proposition finie. Langages 60.
Salles, H.M.L. 2005. Exceptional case marking in Brazilian Portuguese. In
Grammaticalization and Parametric Change, M. Batllori, M.L. Hernanz,
C. Picallo and F. Roca (eds). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
San Martin, I. 1999. Control in Basque. Doctoral Research Paper, University
of Maryland, College Park.
San Martin, I. 2004. On Subordination and the Distribution of PRO. PhD
dissertation, University of Maryland, College Park.
Schueler, D. 2004. Extended-projection, categorization and the English
morpheme–ing. Paper presented at WECOL 2004.
Schütze, C. 1997. Infl in Child and Adult Language: Agreement, case and
licensing. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Schütze, C. 2001. On the nature of default case. Syntax 4: 205-38.
Spyropoulos, V. 2005. Finiteness and control in Greek. Paper presented at the
Workshop New Horizons in the Grammar of Raising and Control, LSA
Summer Institute, July 8-10.
Stowell, T. 1981. Origins of Phrase Structure. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Stowell, T. 1982. The tense of infinitives. Linguistic Inquiry 13: 561-70.
Terzi, A. 1991. PRO and obviation in Modern Greek subjunctives. In
Proceedings of the West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics 10,
Dawn Bates (ed.), 471-82. Stanford CA: CSLI.
REFERENCES
178
Terzi, A. 1992. PRO in Finite Clauses: A study of the inflectional heads of the
Balkan languages. PhD dissertation, The City University of New York.
Terzi, A. 1997. PRO and null case in finite clauses. The Linguistic Review 14:
335-60.
Teyssier, P. 1976. Manuel de langue portugaise: Portugal-Brésil. Paris:
Klincksieck.
Torrego, E. 1998. Nominative subjects and pro-drop Infl. Syntax 1(2): 206-19.
Tóth, I. 2000. Inflected Infinitives in Hungarian. PhD dissertation, Tilburg
University.
Turano, G. 1994. Syntactic Dependencies in Albanian. PhD dissertation,
University of Florence.
Uriagereka, J. 1995a. Aspects of the syntax of clitic placement in Western
Romance. Linguistic Inquiry 26(1): 79-123.
Uriagereka, J. 1995b. An F position in Western Romance. In Discourse
Configurational Languages, K. Kiss (ed.), 153-75. New York NY: Oxford
University Press.
Varlokosta, S. 1993. Control in Modern Greek. University of Maryland
Working Papers in Linguistics 1, 144-63.
Varlokosta, S. 1994. Issues on Modern Greek Sentential Complementation.
PhD dissertation, University of Maryland, College Park.
Vincent, N. 1996. Appunti sulla sintassi dell’infinito coniugato in un testo
napoletano del ‘300. In Italiano e Dialetti nel tempo: Saggi di Grammatica
per G. Lepschy, P. Benincá et al. (ed.). Roma: Bulzoni.
Vincent, N. 1998a. On the grammar of inflected non-finite forms (with special
reference to Old Neopolitan). In Clause Combining and Text Structure, I.
Korzen and M. Herslund (eds). Copenhagen: Samfundslitteratur.
Vinet, M.T. 1985. Lexical subjects in French infinitives. In Selected papers
from the XIIIth Linguistic Symposium on Romance Languages, L.D. King
and C.A. Maley (ed.), 407-23. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Wanner, D. 1987. The Development of Romance Clitic Pronouns. Berlin:
Mouton.
Watanabe, A. 1993. Agr-base Case Theory and its Interaction with the A-Bar
System. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Williams, E. 1975. Small clauses in English. In Syntax and Semantics, Vol. 4,
J. Kimball (ed.) New York NY: Academic Press.
Wireback, K.J. 1994. The origin of the Portuguese inflected infinitive.
Hispania 77: 544-52.
Woolford, E. 1999. More on the anaphor agreement effect. Linguistic Inquiry
30: 257-87.
Wurmbrand, S. 1998. Infinitives. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Wurmbrand, S. 2001. Infinitives: Restructuring and clause structure. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
REFERENCES 179
Yoon, J. H. S. 1996. A syntactic account of category-changing phrasal
morphology: Nominalizations in English and Korean. In Morphosyntax in
Generative Grammar, H.-D. Ahn et al. (eds), 63-86. Seoul: Hankuk
Publishing.
Zabala, I and Odriozola, J.C. 1996. On the relation between DP and TP. The
structure of Basque infinitivals. Catalan Working Papers in Linguistics
5(2): 231-81.
Zanuttini, R. 1997. Negation and Clausal Structure: A comparative study of
the Romance languages. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Zec, D. 1987. On obligatory control in clausal complements. In Working
Papers in Grammatical Theory and Discourse Structure, I. Masayo, S.
Wechsler and D. Zec (eds), 139–68. Stanford CA: CSLI Publications.
Zubizarreta, M. L. 1980. Remarks on inflected infinitives in Portuguese. Ms.
MIT.
Zwart, C. J-W. 1996. N-feature checking in Germanic verb second
configurations. In Studies in Comparative Germanic Syntax, Vol.II., H.
Thráinsson, S.D. Epstein and S. Peter (eds). 257-75. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
INDEX
θ-role, 10, 19, 43-53, 56, 75, 77, 78,
83, 84, 90, 96-100, 105, 138
Multiple θ-roles, 95
φ-feature, 4, 5, 12, 19, 23, 26, 32,
37, 40-46, 48-50, 56, 59, 66, 67,
83, 84, 86, 91, 96, 98-100, 115,
116, 118, 138, 139, 147
see also Agreement, [Agr]
feature
A
Abney, 4, 16-19, 23, 24
Abusch, 32
Acc-ing, 15, 19, 23, 24, 40
Activation, 40, 95, 158, 160, 161
Affixation, 4, 23, 24
Agr as overt inflection, 127, 131,
143, 146-148
AGR as the head of T, 25, 43-53,
56
[Agr] feature, 114-124
Agree, 40-44, 46-49, 51, 52, 56, 86,
116, 118, 123, 124, 146
Agreement, vii, viii, 1, 3-5, 12, 13,
16, 19, 23, 25, 37, 40, 59, 64,
65, 67, 68, 84, 86, 91, 96, 98,
102, 115-117, 121, 124, 126,
130-133, 135, 140, 141, 143,
144, 146, 147, 149, 156, 167
AgrP, 24, 122
Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou,
143
Ambar, 122
Anaphor, 6, 61, 63-65, 75, 101-103,
118
Aragonese, 150
Aspect, vii, 71, 131
imperfect, 127-130, 132, 133,
135
perfective, 4, 9, 71, 86-88
B
Baker, 16
Barbosa, 149, 152
Bare phrase structure, 4
Barrie, 32
Basque, 5, 41, 65-68, 100, 111
Battistella, 16
Belfast English, 67
Binding, vii, viii, 5-7, 9, 30, 60-65,
75, 79-82, 89-91, 101-104, 106,
109, 124, 133
Principle B, 61
Bobaljik, 157
Bobaljik & Brown, 98
Boeckx & Hornstein, 32
Borer, 16
Borgonovo, 16
Bošković, 5, 9, 20, 28, 43, 48, 68,
75, 82, 83, 95, 104-110, 138
Bošković & Takahashi, 43, 48, 84,
95
Bourciez, 127
Bresnan, 76
C
C-selection, 166
Cardinaletti & Roberts, 152, 158
Case vii, viii, 1, 3, 5-7, 10-13, 16-
26, 32, 36-61, 65-68, 72, 79,
83-87, 89, 96, 98-100, 109,
114-116, 118, 122-124, 134,
138, 139, 144-149, 155, 156,
166
Absolutive, 66
Accusative, viii, 3, 10, 13, 15,
18, 19, 51, 52, 55, 58, 66, 74,
75, 79, 97, 144, 145, 158, 162-
164, also see Acc-ing
Checking, 138, 145, 147
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
182
Checking/valuation, 26, 37, 48,
96, 100
Dative, 144, 163
Default, vii, 58-60, 83, 147, 148,
166
Genitive, 4, 16-18, 40, 66
Nominative, 13, 15, 18, 40-42,
55, 58, 60, 61, 66, 79, 97, 99,
114-116, 121-123, 128, 147,
166
Null case, vii, 5-9, 17, 26, 28-
32, 36, 68, 76-79, 82, 84, 89-91,
104, 105, 110-116, 124
Oblique, 144, 146
Valuation, 21, 22, 39, 40, 44,
46, 49, 54, 56, 57, 58, 66
Case assignment, 6, 18, 21-23, 25,
26, 28, 40, 51, 55, 56, 58, 65,
67, 72, 76, 77, 79, 82, 85, 89,
104, 121, 122, 134, 156
Case percolation, 41, 86
Case transmission, 25, 41, 86
Castillo, Drury & Grohmann, 20
Catalan, 149, 150
Causative, 135, 136
Checking, see Case
Chierchia, 16, 71, 74
Chinese, 143, 146, 147, 149
Chomsky, 4, 5, 10, 12, 13, 16-19,
23, 24, 26, 27, 37-46, 48, 49, 51,
56, 58, 65, 73, 76, 77, 83, 84,
86, 95-98, 100, 101, 103, 116,
118, 122, 123, 132, 138, 146,
151
Chomsky & Lasnik, 5, 6, 7, 28, 76
Cinque, 71, 131
Cleft, 22
Clitics, viii, 13, 135, 144, 145, 150-
165
Enclisis, 13, 150, 157-160, 162
Proclisis, 150, 157-160, 164
Collins, 32
Comorovsky, 111
Complement gerund, 70,
Complementizer, 26, 55, 72, 73, 87,
117, 126, 130-132, 150, 161
Control, vii, viii, 1, 5-9, 11-13, 15,
17, 19, 26, 28-33, 35-37, 39,
64-71, 76-79, 81, 82, 89-93, 95,
96, 98, 100, 101, 104, 105, 110-
116, 118-121, 124, 166
Adjunct, viii, 91, 98
Infinitives, 76, 77, 78, 79
Non-Obligatory (NOC), vii, 28,
36, 60, 74, 79, 91, 93, 94, 101,
103, 104, 115, 124, 136, 139,
142, 143, 144
Object, viii, 83, 89, 91, 97, 119
Obligatory (OC), vii, 9-11, 17,
28, 32-34, 37, 59, 60, 67, 75, 77,
79, 82, 84, 91-95, 101, 103, 104,
111-116, 118-120, 124, 136-
139, 142, 143, 165
Semantic, 74, 75
Copy, 32, 37, 45, 65, 84, 97, 101,
115, 139
Cue, 129-133, 136, 140, 143, 144,
146-149, 164, 165
Culicover & Jackendoff, 32
Cyclicity, 46, 47, 49
Cyrino, 159-161, 163, 164
D
Davies & Dubinsky, 32
De re interpretation, 111, 112
De se interpretation, 34-36, 111
Dobrovie-Sorin, 111
Dresher, 129
Duarte, 153
Dutch, 34, 74
INDEX 183
E
Early Romance, 133, 134
ECM, 5, 7, 8, 11, 26, 28, 30, 32, 38,
44, 51, 58, 76, 78-80, 88, 89,
102, 104-106, 108-110, 121,
134-136, 145, 146
Ellipsis, viii, 11, 34, 36, 59, 82, 93,
111, 112, 128, 137, 141, 164
Enç, 7, 30, 79, 104
Enlightened Self-Interest, 10
EPP, 10, 19, 20, 39, 41, 42, 43, 44,
45, 47-52, 53, 56, 87, 96, 97, 98,
100, 124, 138, 143
Epstein, Groat, Kawashima, &
Kitahara, 45, 52, 65
Epstein, Pires & Seely, 20
Epstein & Seely, 20, 44
Ernout and Thomas, 133
Event predicates, 7, 29, 31, 79, 104,
106
Event time, 76, 77, 78
Expletive, 18, 19, 47, 56, 57
It, 19, 21, 22, 56, 57, 105
Pro, 143
There, 4, 18, 39, 47, 48, 49, 56,
57, 72, 87, 147
External argument, xiv, 10, 39, 40,
44, 46, 55, 74-76, 82-84
F
Factive, 154, 155
Farkas, 111
Felix, 111
Fodor, 35, 59, 129, 130
French, viii, 8, 9, 104, 106-110,
121, 123, 143, 149, 150, 152,
157, 158, 161-164
G
Galician, 127, 128, 150, 152-155,
162
Galves, 96, 138, 155, 162
George & Kornfilt, 25, 148
German, 74, 75, 130, 131, 146
Government & Binding (GB), 5, 21,
40, 51, 77, 101, 103, 122, 130
Greed, 95
Greek, 12, 68, 91, 111-116, 118,
120-122, 124
Grimshaw, 23
Grohmann, Castillo & Drury, 20
H
Hale, 12
Hale & Keyser, 10
Harris, 133
Henry, 67
Higginbotham, 34
Holmberg, 118
Horn, 17
Hornstein, 6, 9, 31-33, 36, 37, 43,
48, 79, 93, 95, 97, 98, 103, 105,
115, 138
Hornstein and San Martin, 62
Huang, 144
Hungarian, 5, 117
I
Iatridou, 68, 111, 114, 118
Idiom, 31, 105
Infinitives
Inflected, vii, viii, 2, 11-13, 25,
67, 91-93, 95, 96, 99-104, 117,
121, 123-136, 138-146, 148,
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
184
149, 153-157, 159, 164, 165,
167
Restructuring, 72, 74, 75
Inversion, viii, 153-157, 160
verb-subject inversion, 13, 121,
160, 161
Irrealis complements, 105-107
Island violation, 98
Islands, 46, 155
It-extraposition, 21, 22, 56
Italian, 74, 103, 108, 121, 122, 123,
134, 146, 147, 149, 163
J
Jackendoff, 35
Jackendoff & Culicover, 32
Jaeggli, 104
Jaeggli & Safir, 143
Johnson, 4, 24
Jones, 135
K
Kaiser, 16, 17, 23
Kapetangianni & Seely, 32, 68, 86,
114, 115, 118-120
Kayne, 106, 114, 152, 158, 163
Kempchinsky, 103
Kiguchi, 37
Krapova, 111
Krapova & Petkov, 111
L
Landau, 32, 34, 86, 111, 112, 116-
121, 138
Language acquisition, 2, 12, 13,
125, 129, 131-133, 135, 140,
143, 146-148, 153, 165, 167
Lasnik, 10, 43, 48, 51, 56, 74, 83,
95, 138, 158, 162
Last Resort, 6
Latin, 127-130, 132-134, 135, 151
Lebeaux, 33, 93
Ledgeway, 128, 134
Lemle & Naro, 141
Leonese, 150
Lexicalist Hypothesis, 6
Lightfoot, 12, 129, 130, 132, 133
Lobo, 127, 128
Longa, 127, 154
Loporcaro, 127, 135
M
Manzini & Roussou, 9, 32
Martin, 5, 7-9, 20, 28-31, 76-82, 89,
103-107, 112, 118
Martineau & Motapanyane, 149
Martins, 127-130, 135, 152
Match, 40-44, 46-49, 51, 52, 86,
118
Maurer, 127, 128
Mensching, 32, 86, 121, 122, 123,
124, 143, 154
Merge, 19, 40, 42, 44, 47, 49, 83,
96, 97, 98, 100, 138, 139, 143
First merge, 43
Remerge, 45, 65
Merge over Move, 97, 98, 99
Meyer-Lübke, 127
Miller, 121, 130
Milsark, 4, 16, 17, 23
Minimal Link Condition (MLC),
98, 99
Minimalism, 6, 9, 10, 12, 13, 19, 21,
25, 26, 28, 37, 39, 41, 46, 51,
INDEX 185
65, 79, 101, 114, 118, 122, 123,
146
Modal, 79, 81, 87, 108, 131, 143,
160, 162
Monahan, 32
Montalbetti, 103
Mood, 111, 112, 114, 130-132
Morais, 153
Movement, also see V movement
A-movement, 16, 17, 28, 32, 33,
34, 35, 36, 37, 40, 43, 61, 62,
63, 64, 69, 90, 91, 95, 124, 138,
142
Head, 13, 52, 143, 152, 154,
158
Sidewards, 98, 99, 139
Munn, 16
N
Negation, 135, 157, 161, 162
[Nom] feature, 123
null objects, 79, 163
Nunes, 45, 65, 98, 163
O
Object movement, 74
Old Neapolitan, 127, 135
Old Portuguese, 12, 125, 129, 130,
133-135
O’Neil, 9, 32
Ortiz de Urbina, 41, 66, 86
P
Pagotto, 159-162
Parallel workspace, 98
Parameter, 13, 25, 129, 130, 148,
150, 158
Passive, 11, 16, 20, 38, 52, 53, 55,
56, 85, 87, 88
Pesetsky, 68
Pesetsky & Torrego, 42, 52, 116
PF, 6, 152, 157
Phase, 27, 44, 46, 49, 56, 73, 74,
132
Philippaki-Warburton, 68, 111
Philippaki-Warburton & Catsimali,
68, 111
Pied-piping, 16, 52, 54, 56
Piel, 129
Piera, 121
Pires, 16, 25, 31, 92, 115, 127, 132,
160
Point-of-view interpretation, viii,
13, 149, 151, 158
Polinsky & Potsdam, 32
Pollock, 5, 131
Portuguese, viii, 1, 2, 5, 9-13, 25,
65, 67, 91, 92, 95, 96, 99-101,
103, 104, 107, 108, 111, 112,
115, 121, 124, 125, 127-130,
132, 134-136, 138, 142, 144,
145, 147, 160, 164-167
Brazilian Portuguese (BP), viii,
2, 8, 9, 12, 13, 91, 92, 101-104,
108-110, 121, 124, 140, 141,
144, 145, 149, 150, 152-165,
167
Colloquial Brazilian Portuguese
(ColBP), viii, 3, 92, 102, 125,
136, 140-150, 153, 155, 156,
158, 162, 165
European Portuguese (EP), 2,
92, 93-96, 100, 102, 103, 108,
122, 123, 126-128, 134, 136-
139, 143, 145-155, 157-160,
162, 163
Modern, 129
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
186
Standard Brazilian Portuguese
(StdBP), 92-94, 100, 101, 123,
125, 126, 136-140, 150, 153,
157, 163, 164
Poss-ing 4, 16-23
Postverbal subject, 114, 123, 147,
149, 153
Postal, 32, 38
Pro, 11, 12, 37, 79, 93-95, 99-101,
103, 104, 113-115, 118, 120,
121, 125, 128, 136-140, 142-
144, 149, 165
PRO, 3, 4, 6-9, 11, 13, 15-17, 19,
28, 29, 31-41, 43, 59-62, 64, 65,
67, 68, 74-84, 89, 91, 93-95,
100, 101, 103-108, 110-116,
118, 120, 121, 124, 136-138,
142
Arbitrary PRO, viii, 19, 20, 91,
103, 104
Pro-drop, 37
Probe, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 46, 47, 51,
52, 95, 98, 151
Procrastinate, 97, 98
Purpose clauses, 128, 132
Q
Quantifier, 61, 62, 63
Quechua, 65-67, 111
Quicoli, 92, 148
R
R assignment, 116
Raising, 5, 7, 8, 11, 16, 22, 28, 30-
32, 38, 43, 46, 47, 53, 54, 56,
57, 61, 68, 76, 78-80, 91, 96,
100, 104, 105, 113, 122, 132,
143, 154, 156, 157, 161, 163,
164
Raposo, 11, 25, 67, 96, 99, 122,
138, 145, 148, 152, 153, 155
Raposo & Uriagereka, 150, 157,
158
Reinhart & Reuland, 118
Restructuring, vii, 5, 70, 72, 74, 75,
78
Reuland, 4, 16, 17, 21, 23-26, 41,
60-65, 73
Reuland & Reinhart, 118
Ribeiro, 134
Rizzi, 64, 65, 114, 122, 131, 143
Rochette, 121
Rodrigues, 32, 128, 143, 144
Rohrbacher, 157
Rooryck, 81
Ross, 16
Rossi, 153
Roussou, 111
Rouveret, 25
Rumanian, 134
S
s-selection, 105, 106, 107
Salles, 121
San Martin, 32, 66, 68, 100, 103
Sardinian, 135
Schueler, 23
Schütze, 58, 65, 83
Small clauses, 5, 54
Spanish, 108, 113, 121, 123, 134,
143, 146, 147, 149, 150, 153,
157, 158, 162
Spell-Out, 19, 156
Split antecedents, viii, 34, 36, 59,
82, 83, 94, 95, 137, 138
Spyropoulos, 111, 121
INDEX 187
Stowell, 7, 23, 25, 26, 28, 31, 70,
76-79, 104, 106
Subjunctives, 1, 12, 103, 111-120,
122, 127-130, 132, 133, 135,
165
T
Temporal adverbial, 29, 71, 74, 80,
119
Terzi, 32, 68, 86, 103, 111, 112,
113, 114, 115, 120, 122
Teyssier, 158
Time adverbial, see Temporal
adverbial
Topicalization, 22, 59, 144, 151
Torrego, 121, 143
Tóth, 117
TP defectiveness, vii, viii, 4, 5, 8,
13, 15, 25, 28, 29, 70-78, 81-90,
96, 111, 113
Trace, 65, 101
Turano, 111
U
Uriagereka, 13, 149-152, 154-158,
161, 163
V
V movement
V-to-C, 114, 153, 154, 156
V-to-F, 152, 154, 161, 162
V-to-I, 157
V-to-T, 162
V2, 130, 131, 153
Valuation [of features], 12, 16, 19,
22, 26, 37, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44,
48, 49, 56, 57, 68, 83, 95, 96,
116, 118, 122, 123
See also Case, Agreement
Varlokosta, 68, 111, 114, 118, 120,
121
Verbs
Believe-type, viii, 8, 9, 32, 38,
80, 91, 104-108, 110, 124
Perception, vii, viii, 5, 13, 16,
70, 83, 87, 88, 90, 135, 136
Psychological, 81
Try-type, 2, 70, 74, 78, 105,
106, 111
Vergnaud, 58
Vincent, 127
Vinet, 121
Voice transparency, 31, 89, 105
Volitional clauses, 128
W
Wanner, 151
Watanabe, 86
Western Iberian, 136, 154
Wh-element, 27, 73
Wh-extraction, 18
Wh-feature, 26, 27, 28
Wh-island, 46
Wh movement, 26, 27, 73, 96, 109,
138
Wh-phrase, 27, 28
Wh-questions, 109, 153
Williams, 17, 22
Wireback, 128, 129, 132, 134
Woolford, 64
Wurmbrand, 5, 72, 74, 75, 78
Y
Yoon, 16
THE MINIMALIST SYNTAX OF GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES
188
Z
Zabala & Odriozola, 66
Zanuttini, 130
Zec, 111
Zwart, 34, 35, 41, 65, 103
Linguistik Aktuell/Linguistics Today
A complete list of titles in this series can be found on the publishers’ website, www.benjamins.com
101	 Karimi, Simin,Vida Samiian and Wendy Wilkins (eds.): Phrasal and Clausal Architecture. Syntactic
derivation and interpretation. In honor of Joseph E. Emonds. vi, 411 pp. + index. Expected December 2006
100	 Schwabe, Kerstin and Susanne Winkler (eds.): On Information Structure, Meaning and Form.
Generalizations across languages. x, 557 pp. + index. Expected December 2006
99	 Martínez-Gil, Fernando and Sonia Colina (eds.): Optimality-Theoretic Studies in Spanish
Phonology. vi, 548 pp. + index. Expected December 2006
98	 Pires, Acrisio: The Minimalist Syntax of Defective Domains. Gerunds and infinitives. 2006. xiv, 188 pp.
97	 Hartmann, Jutta M. and László Molnárfi (eds.): Comparative Studies in Germanic Syntax. From
Afrikaans to Zurich German. vi, 326 pp. + index. Expected December 2006
96	 Lyngfelt, Benjamin and Torgrim Solstad (eds.): Demoting the Agent. Passive, middle and other
voice phenomena. viii, 326 pp. + index. Expected December 2006
95	 Vogeleer, Svetlana and Liliane Tasmowski (eds.): Non-definiteness and Plurality.
vi, 353 pp. + index. Expected November 2006
94	 Arche, María J.: Individuals in Time. Tense, aspect and the individual/stage distinction. 2006. xiv, 281 pp.
93	 Progovac, Ljiljana, Kate Paesani, Eugenia Casielles and Ellen Barton (eds.): The Syntax of
Nonsententials. Multidisciplinary perspectives. 2006042931, 2006. x, 372 pp.
92	 Boeckx, Cedric (ed.): Agreement Systems. 2006. ix, 346 pp.
91	 Boeckx, Cedric (ed.): Minimalist Essays. 2006. xvi, 399 pp.
90	 Dalmi, Gréte: The Role of Agreement in Non-Finite Predication. 2005. xvi, 222 pp.
89	 Velde, John R. te: Deriving Coordinate Symmetries. A phase-based approach integrating Select, Merge,
Copy and Match. 2006. x, 385 pp.
88	 Mohr, Sabine: Clausal Architecture and Subject Positions. Impersonal constructions in the Germanic
languages. 2005. viii, 207 pp.
87	 Julien, Marit: Nominal Phrases from a Scandinavian Perspective. 2005. xvi, 348 pp.
86	 Costa, João and Maria Cristina Figueiredo Silva (eds.): Studies on Agreement. 2006. vi, 285 pp.
85	 Mikkelsen, Line: Copular Clauses. Specification, predication and equation. 2005. viii, 210 pp.
84	 Pafel, Jürgen: Quantifier Scope in German. 2006. xvi, 312 pp.
83	 Schweikert, Walter: The Order of Prepositional Phrases in the Structure of the Clause. 2005.
xii, 338 pp.
82	 Quinn, Heidi: The Distribution of Pronoun Case Forms in English. 2005. xii, 409 pp.
81	 Fuss, Eric: The Rise of Agreement. A formal approach to the syntax and grammaticalization of verbal
inflection. 2005. xii, 336 pp.
80	 Burkhardt, Petra: The Syntax–Discourse Interface. Representing and interpreting dependency. 2005.
xii, 259 pp.
79	 Schmid, Tanja: Infinitival Syntax. Infinitivus Pro Participio as a repair strategy. 2005. xiv, 251 pp.
78	 Dikken, Marcel den and Christina M. Tortora (eds.): The Function of Function Words and
Functional Categories. 2005. vii, 292 pp.
77	 Öztürk, Balkız: Case, Referentiality and Phrase Structure. 2005. x, 268 pp.
76	 Stavrou, Melita and Arhonto Terzi (eds.): Advances in Greek Generative Syntax. In honor of Dimitra
Theophanopoulou-Kontou. 2005. viii, 366 pp.
75	 Di Sciullo, Anna Maria (ed.): UG and External Systems. Language, brain and computation. 2005.
xviii, 398 pp.
74	 Heggie, Lorie and Francisco Ordóñez (eds.): Clitic and Affix Combinations. Theoretical perspectives.
2005. viii, 390 pp.
73	 Carnie, Andrew, Heidi Harley and Sheila Ann Dooley (eds.): Verb First. On the syntax of verb-
initial languages. 2005. xiv, 434 pp.
72	 Fuss, Eric and Carola Trips (eds.): Diachronic Clues to Synchronic Grammar. 2004. viii, 228 pp.
71	 Gelderen, Elly van: Grammaticalization as Economy. 2004. xvi, 320 pp.
70	 Austin, Jennifer R., Stefan Engelberg and Gisa Rauh (eds.): Adverbials. The interplay between
meaning, context, and syntactic structure. 2004. x, 346 pp.
69	 Kiss, Katalin É. and Henk van Riemsdijk (eds.): Verb Clusters. A study of Hungarian, German and
Dutch. 2004. vi, 514 pp.
68	 Breul, Carsten: Focus Structure in Generative Grammar. An integrated syntactic, semantic and
intonational approach. 2004. x, 432 pp.
67	 Mišeska Tomić, Olga (ed.): Balkan Syntax and Semantics. 2004. xvi, 499 pp.
66	 Grohmann, Kleanthes K.: Prolific Domains. On the Anti-Locality of movement dependencies. 2003.
xvi, 372 pp.
65	 Manninen, Satu Helena: Small Phrase Layers. A study of Finnish Manner Adverbials. 2003. xii, 275 pp.
64	 Boeckx, Cedric and Kleanthes K. Grohmann (eds.): Multiple Wh-Fronting. 2003. x, 292 pp.
63	 Boeckx, Cedric: Islands and Chains. Resumption as stranding. 2003. xii, 224 pp.
62	 Carnie, Andrew, Heidi Harley and MaryAnn Willie (eds.): Formal Approaches to Function in
Grammar. In honor of Eloise Jelinek. 2003. xii, 378 pp.
61	 Schwabe, Kerstin and Susanne Winkler (eds.): The Interfaces. Deriving and interpreting omitted
structures. 2003. vi, 403 pp.
60	 Trips, Carola: From OV to VO in Early Middle English. 2002. xiv, 359 pp.
59	 Dehé, Nicole: Particle Verbs in English. Syntax, information structure and intonation. 2002. xii, 305 pp.
58	 Di Sciullo, Anna Maria (ed.): Asymmetry in Grammar.Volume 2: Morphology, phonology, acquisition.
2003. vi, 309 pp.
57	 Di Sciullo, Anna Maria (ed.): Asymmetry in Grammar.Volume 1: Syntax and semantics. 2003.
vi, 405 pp.
56	 Coene, Martine and Yves D’hulst (eds.): From NP to DP.Volume 2: The expression of possession in
noun phrases. 2003. x, 295 pp.
55	 Coene, Martine and Yves D’hulst (eds.): From NP to DP.Volume 1: The syntax and semantics of noun
phrases. 2003. vi, 362 pp.
54	 Baptista, Marlyse: The Syntax of Cape Verdean Creole. The Sotavento varieties. 2003.
xxii, 294 pp.  (incl. CD-rom).
53	 Zwart, C. Jan-Wouter and Werner Abraham (eds.): Studies in Comparative Germanic Syntax.
Proceedings from the 15th Workshop on Comparative Germanic Syntax (Groningen, May 26–27, 2000).
2002. xiv, 407 pp.
52	 Simon, Horst J. and Heike Wiese (eds.): Pronouns – Grammar and Representation. 2002. xii, 294 pp.
51	 Gerlach, Birgit: Clitics between Syntax and Lexicon. 2002. xii, 282 pp.
50	 Steinbach, Markus: Middle Voice. A comparative study in the syntax-semantics interface of German.
2002. xii, 340 pp.
49	 Alexiadou, Artemis (ed.): Theoretical Approaches to Universals. 2002. viii, 319 pp.
48	 Alexiadou, Artemis, Elena Anagnostopoulou, Sjef Barbiers and Hans-Martin Gärtner
(eds.): Dimensions of Movement. From features to remnants. 2002. vi, 345 pp.
47	 Barbiers, Sjef, Frits Beukema and Wim van der Wurff (eds.): Modality and its Interaction with the
Verbal System. 2002. x, 290 pp.
46	 Panagiotidis, Phoevos: Pronouns, Clitics and Empty Nouns.‘Pronominality’ and licensing in syntax.
2002. x, 214 pp.
45	 Abraham, Werner and C. Jan-Wouter Zwart (eds.): Issues in Formal German(ic) Typology. 2002.
xviii, 336 pp.
44	 Taylan, Eser Erguvanlı (ed.): The Verb in Turkish. 2002. xviii, 267 pp.
43	 Featherston, Sam: Empty Categories in Sentence Processing. 2001. xvi, 279 pp.
42	 Alexiadou, Artemis: Functional Structure in Nominals. Nominalization and ergativity. 2001. x, 233 pp.
41	 Zeller, Jochen: Particle Verbs and Local Domains. 2001. xii, 325 pp.
40	 Hoeksema, Jack, Hotze Rullmann, Víctor Sánchez-Valencia and Ton van der Wouden
(eds.): Perspectives on Negation and Polarity Items. 2001. xii, 368 pp.
39	 Gelderen, Elly van: A History of English Reflexive Pronouns. Person, Self, and Interpretability. 2000.
xiv, 279 pp.
38	 Meinunger, André: Syntactic Aspects of Topic and Comment. 2000. xii, 247 pp.
37	 Lutz, Uli, Gereon Müller and Arnim von Stechow (eds.): Wh-Scope Marking. 2000. vi, 483 pp.
36	 Gerlach, Birgit and Janet Grijzenhout (eds.): Clitics in Phonology, Morphology and Syntax. 2001.
xii, 441 pp.
35	 Hróarsdóttir, Thorbjörg: Word Order Change in Icelandic. From OV to VO. 2001. xiv, 385 pp.
34	 Reuland, Eric (ed.): Arguments and Case. Explaining Burzio’s Generalization. 2000. xii, 255 pp.
33	 Puskás, Genoveva: Word Order in Hungarian. The syntax of Ā-positions. 2000. xvi, 398 pp.
32	 Alexiadou, Artemis, Paul Law, André Meinunger and Chris Wilder (eds.): The Syntax of
Relative Clauses. 2000. vi, 397 pp.
31	 Svenonius, Peter (ed.): The Derivation of VO and OV. 2000. vi, 372 pp.
30	 Beukema, Frits and Marcel den Dikken (eds.): Clitic Phenomena in European Languages. 2000.
x, 324 pp.
29	 Miyamoto, Tadao: The Light Verb Construction in Japanese. The role of the verbal noun. 2000.
xiv, 232 pp.
28	 Hermans, Ben and Marc van Oostendorp (eds.): The Derivational Residue in Phonological
Optimality Theory. 2000. viii, 322 pp.
27	 Růžička, Rudolf: Control in Grammar and Pragmatics. A cross-linguistic study. 1999. x, 206 pp.
26	 Ackema, Peter: Issues in Morphosyntax. 1999. viii, 310 pp.
25	 Felser, Claudia: Verbal Complement Clauses. A minimalist study of direct perception constructions.
1999. xiv, 278 pp.
24	 Rebuschi, Georges and Laurice Tuller (eds.): The Grammar of Focus. 1999. vi, 366 pp.
23	 Giannakidou, Anastasia: Polarity Sensitivity as (Non)Veridical Dependency. 1998. xvi, 282 pp.
22	 Alexiadou, Artemis and Chris Wilder (eds.): Possessors, Predicates and Movement in the
Determiner Phrase. 1998. vi, 388 pp.
21	 Klein, Henny: Adverbs of Degree in Dutch and Related Languages. 1998. x, 232 pp.
20	 Laenzlinger, Christopher: Comparative Studies in Word Order Variation. Adverbs, pronouns, and
clause structure in Romance and Germanic. 1998. x, 371 pp.
19	 Josefsson, Gunlög: Minimal Words in a Minimal Syntax.Word formation in Swedish. 1998. ix, 199 pp.
18	 Alexiadou, Artemis: Adverb Placement. A case study in antisymmetric syntax. 1997. x, 256 pp.
17	 Beermann, Dorothee A., David LeBlanc and Henk van Riemsdijk (eds.): Rightward Movement.
1997. vi, 410 pp.
16	 Liu, Feng-Hsi: Scope and Specificity. 1997. viii, 187 pp.
15	 Rohrbacher, Bernhard Wolfgang: Morphology-Driven Syntax. A theory of V to I raising and pro-
drop. 1999. viii, 296 pp.
14	 Anagnostopoulou, Elena, Henk van Riemsdijk and Frans Zwarts (eds.): Materials on Left
Dislocation. 1997. viii, 349 pp.
13	 Alexiadou, Artemis and T. Alan Hall (eds.): Studies on Universal Grammar and Typological
Variation. 1997. viii, 252 pp.
12	 Abraham, Werner, Samuel David Epstein, Höskuldur Thráinsson and C. Jan-Wouter Zwart
(eds.): Minimal Ideas. Syntactic studies in the minimalist framework. 1996. xii, 364 pp.
11	 Lutz, Uli and Jürgen Pafel (eds.): On Extraction and Extraposition in German. 1996. xii, 315 pp.
10	 Cinque, Guglielmo and Giuliana Giusti (eds.): Advances in Roumanian Linguistics. 1995. xi, 172 pp.
9	 Gelderen, Elly van: The Rise of Functional Categories. 1993. x, 224 pp.
8	 Fanselow, Gisbert (ed.): The Parametrization of Universal Grammar. 1993. xvii, 232 pp.
7	 Åfarlí, Tor A.: The Syntax of Norwegian Passive Constructions. 1992. xii, 177 pp.
6	 Bhatt, Christa, Elisabeth Löbel and Claudia Maria Schmidt (eds.): Syntactic Phrase Structure
Phenomena in Noun Phrases and Sentences. 1989. ix, 187 pp.
5	 Grewendorf, Günther and Wolfgang Sternefeld (eds.): Scrambling and Barriers. 1990. vi, 442 pp.
4	 Abraham, Werner and Sjaak De Meij (eds.): Topic, Focus and Configurationality. Papers from the 6th
Groningen Grammar Talks, Groningen, 1984. 1986. v, 349 pp.
3	 Abraham, Werner (ed.): On the Formal Syntax of the Westgermania. Papers from the 3rd Groningen
Grammar Talks (3e Groninger Grammatikgespräche), Groningen, January 1981. 1983. vi, 242 pp.
2	 Ehlich, Konrad and Jürgen Rehbein: Augenkommunikation. Methodenreflexion und Beispielanalyse.
1982. viii, 150 pp. With many photographic ills.
1	 Klappenbach, Ruth (1911–1977): Studien zur Modernen Deutschen Lexikographie. Auswahl aus
den Lexikographischen Arbeiten von Ruth Klappenbach, erweitert um drei Beiträge von Helene Malige-
Klappenbach. (Written in German). 1980. xxiii, 313 pp.
